MY LIFE

A RECORD OF EVENTS AND OPINIONS

        BY

        ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE

        AUTHOR OF

"MAN'S  PLACE IN THE UNIVERSE," "THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO," "DARWINISM,"
            "GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ANIMALS," "NATURAL

                           SELECTION AND TROPICAL NATURE," ETC.

        WITH FACSIMILE LETTERS, ILLUSTRATIONS
                              AND PORTRAITS

        TWO VOLUMES

               Volume I

        LONDON: CHAPMAN & HALL, ld.

                                                 1905


               PREFACE

The present volumes would not have been written
had not the representatives of my English and

American publishers assured me that they would
probably interest a large number of readers.

      I had indeed promised to write some account of
my early life for the information of my son and
daughter, but this would have been of very limited
scope, and would probably not have been printed.

      Having never kept a diary, except when abroad,
nor preserved any of the earlier letters of my friends,
I at first thought that I had no materials for any
full record of my life and experiences. But when I
set to work in earnest to get together whatever
scattered memoranda I could find, the numerous
letters I possessed from men of considerable emi
nence, dating from my return home in 1862, together
with a few of my own returned to me by some of
my correspondents, I began to see that I had a fair
amount of material, though I was very doubtful how
far it would interest any considerable number of
readers.

     As several of my friends have assured me that a
true record of a life, especially if sufficiently full as to

                    149201

vi PREFACE

illustrate development of character so far as that is
due to environment, would be extremely interesting,
I have kept this in mind, perhaps unduly, though I
am not at all sure that my own conclusions on this
point are correct.

     It is difficult to write such a record as mine

(extending to the memories of nearly eighty years)
without subjecting one's self to the charge of diffuse-
ness or egotism, and I cannot hope to escape this
altogether. But as my experiences have been certainly
varied, if not exciting, I trust that the frequent change
of scene and of occupation, together with the diversity
of my interests and of the persons with whom I have
been associated, may render this story of my life less
tedious than might have been anticipated.

     My thanks are due to those friends who have
assisted me with facts or illustrations, and especially
to Mrs. Arthur Waugh, who has been so kind as
to make the very full Index to my book.

     Old Orchard, Broadstone,

                     September, i905.

CONTENTS

                              CHAPTER I      PAGE

My Relatives and Ancestors                      i

                           CHAPTER II        20

Usk : My Earliest Memories

                          CHAPTER III        30

Hertford : The Home of my Boyhood

                                 CHAPTER IV  46
Hertford : My School Life

                                  CHAPTER V                             63
Hertford : My Home Life
                                             ...
                              CHAPTER VI                                79
                                                                      106
London Workers, Secularists and Owenites

                           CHAPTER VII

Bedfordshire : Surveying

                          CHAPTER VIII       118

Bedfordshire : Turvey

                              CHAPTER IX
Bedfordshire: Silsoe and Leighton Buzzard . . .129

viii CONTENTS

                                CHAPTER X     PAGE
Kington and Radnorshire                        140

                 CHAPTER XI                    160

Brecknockshire                                170

                           CHAPTER XII         178

Shropshire and Jack Mytton

                        CHAPTER XIII

Glamorganshire: Neath

                            CHAPTER XIV       199
First Literary Efforts

                               CHAPTER XV  .  .223
Remarks on my Character at Twenty-one .

                            CHAPTER XVI       229
                                              241
London and Leicester                          264

                            CHAPTER XVII

Residence at Neath

                         CHAPTER XVIII

The Journey to the Amazon

                 CHAPTER XIX

" In Memoriam "                               289

                               CHAPTER XX     302
In London, and Voyage to Singapore

                            CHAPTER XXI

The Malay Archipelago-- Singapore, Malacca, Borneo . 337

                         CONTENTS                            ix

          CHAPTER XXII

Celebes,  the Moluccas,                                                                                            PAGE

                         New Guinea, Timor, Java, and

Sumatra                                                      356

          CHAPTER XXIII

Life in London, 1862-1871 -- Scientific and Literary
Work
                                                             385

                            CHAPTER XXIV                     409
Home LLyifeel--l My Friends and Acquaintances --Sir Charles


ILLUSTRATIONS

Alfred Russel Wallace. 1902                                        Frontispiece

My Father. Age 35                                                  To face p. 16

{Front a miniature)

My Mother. Age 18
....The                                                            ,,  16
          {From a miniature)                                    .
                                                          1830)    ,,  20
My Birth-place. Kensington Cottage, Usk                            ,,  49

Grammar School, Hertford                    " History?

 {From an engraving in Turner's

Llanbister, Radnorshire                     1840)                  ,, 150
                                            1840)                  ,, 150
          {Pencil sketch by W. G. Wallace.

"A Lonely Chapel"

          {Pencil sketch by W. G. Wallace.

The Beacons (Looking south)                               .        ,, 165
         {From a photograph by Mr. Symonds Neale)         .
                                                                   ,, 165
Plan of Summit of Beacons (Looking north) .                        ,, 165
                                                                   ,, 166
...Section through Summits of Beacons
                                                                   ,, 167
Our Eccentric Neighbour at Devynock .

          {From a sketch by W. G. Wallace)

..."Maen Llia," Upper Vale of Neath
{From a photograph by Miss Neale)

"Whittern"                                                         ,, 170

          {An outdoor sketch by W. G. Wallace.     1842)

Samuel Osgood                               1843)                  ,, 188
          {From a sketch by W. G. Wallace.
                                                                   ,,238
In Derbyshire
         {From pencil sketch by A. R. Wallace.
                                                   1844)
A Village near Leicester
{Pencil drawing by A. R. Wallace. 1844)                                ,, 238

Free Library, Neath              1847)                                 ,,246
         {Designed by A. R. Wallace.
                                                                       ,, 251
Ysgwd Gladys, Vale of Neath                                            ,, 250

....Porth-yr-Ogof, Vale of Neath

xii ILLUSTRATIONS

"..."Maen Madoc," Uppkr Vale of Neath . . .              To face p. 249
          (From three photographs by Miss Neale)               ,, 25 1
                                                               ,, 264
Latin Inscription on " Maen Madoc
Alfred R. Wallace. 1848                                        ,, 285

          (From a daguerroiype)                             ,,285

Fishes of the Rio Negro :                                      ,, 286
         {From drawings by A. R. Wallace)                       ,, 286
                                                               ,, 286
      1. Cynodon Scombroides. Fam. Characinidje                 ,, 286

                 (One-fourth natural size)                  ,,289

     2. Xiphostoma Lateristriga. Fam. Chara-                   ,, 289

                    CINIDiE                                 ,,320
                 (One-third natural size)
                                                               ,, 320
3. P1MELODUS HOLOMELAS. FAM. S1LURID*                .
          (One-third natural size)                          ,,324

4. PLECOSTOMUS GUACARI. FAM. LORICARIIDiE            .          ,, 357
          (One-third natural size)                   .           ,, 383
                                                                 ,, 384
5. Pterophyllum Scalara. Fam. Cichlidje                         ,, 385

          (One-third natural size)

6. CICHLOSOMA SEVERUM. FAM. C1CHLIDiE .              .

(One-third natural size)

H. E. Wallace. Age 8
         (From a pencil sketch by Miss Townsend)

Herbert Edward Wallace. Age 20

(From a silhouette)

...The Rio Negro
         (From observations made in the years 185 1 and
            i852 by Alfred R. Wallace)
Enlarged Map of the River Uaupes
Alfred R. Wallace. 1853
                                                  .  .
         (From a photograph by Mr. Sims)

...Native House, Wokan, Aru Islands
         (Where I lived two weeks in March, 1859)

My Faithful Malay Boy-- All 1855-1862

....Map of the Malay Archipelago
Alfred R. Wallace. 1869

         (From a photograph by Mr. Sims)

        MY LIFE

A RECORD OF EVENTS AND OPINIONS

         CHAPTER I

         MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS

Our family had but few relations, and I myself never saw a

grandfather or grandmother, nor a true uncle, and but one aunt

--my mother's only sister. The only cousins we ever had, so
far as I know, were that sister's family of eight or nine, all

but two of whom emigrated to South Australia in 1838. Of

the two who remained in England, the daughter had married

Mr. Burningham, and had only one child, a daughter, who

has never married. The son, the Rev. Percy Wilson, had a

family, none of whom, however, I have ever met, though I

have recently had a visit from a son of another cousin, Alger

non, with whom I had a considerable correspondence.

My father was practically an only son, an elder boy dying

when three months old ; and as his father died when he was
a boy of twelve, and his mother when he was an infant, he

had not much opportunity of hearing about the family history.

I myself left home before I was fourteen, and only rarely

visited my parents for short holidays, except once during

my recovery from a dangerous illness, so that I also had

little opportunity of learning anything of our ancestors on

the paternal side, more especially as my father seldom spoke

of his youth, and I as a boy felt no interest in his genealogy.
Neither did my eldest brother William --with whom I lived

VOL. I.                              B

2  MY LIFE  [Chap.

till I was of age --ever speak on the subject. The little I

have gleaned was from my sister Fanny and from a recent
examination of tombstones and parish registers, and especially

from an old Prayer-book (1723) which belonged to my grand
father Wallace, who had registered in it the dates of the births
and baptisms of his two sons, while my father had continued
the register to include his own family of nine children, of whom

I am the only survivor.

    My paternal grandfather was married at Hanworth,

Middlesex, in 1765, and the parish register describes him as
William Wallace, of Hanworth, bachelor, and his wife as
Elizabeth Dilke, of Laleham, widow. Both are buried in

Laleham churchyard, where I presume the former Mrs. Dilke

had some family burial rights, as my grandfather's brother,
George Wallace, is also buried there. The register at Han
worth contains no record of my father's birth, but the church
itself shows that quite a small colony of Wallaces lived at
Hanworth. On a long stone in the floor of the chancel is

the name of JAMES Wallace, Esq., who died February 7,

1778, aged 87 years. He was therefore thirty-five years older
than my grandfather, and may have been his uncle. Then

follows Admiral Sir James Wallace, who died on March

6, 1803, aged 69 years; and Frances Sleigh, daughter of
the above JAMES WALLACE, ESQ., who died December 12,

1820, aged 69 years.

     Also, on a small stone in the floor of the nave, just outside

the chancel, we find Mary Wallace, who died December

5, 1812, aged 39 years. She may, therefore, not improbably
have been a daughter, or perhaps niece, of the admiral.

      Here, then, we have four Wallaces buried in the same

church as that in which my grandfather was married, and of
which place he was a resident at the time. As Hanworth is
a very small place, the total population of the parish being
only 750 in 1840, it is hardly probable that my grandfather
and the others met there accidentally. I conclude, therefore,

that James Wallace was probably an uncle or cousin, and

that all were in some way related. As there is no record of

i] MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS 3

my father's birth at Hanworth, it is probable that his parents

had left the place and gone to live either at Laleham or in
London.

     How or why my grandfather came to live at Hanworth
(probably with his brother George, who is also buried at

ILaleham), can only conjecture from the following facts.

Baron Vere of Hanworth is one of the titles of the Dukes of
St. Albans since 1750, when Vere Beauclerc, third son of the

first Duke, was created Baron, and his son became fifth Duke

of St. Albans in 1787. It is to be presumed that the village

and a good deal of the land was at that time the property of
this family, though they appear to have parted with it not
long afterwards, as a Mr. Perkins owned the park and re
built the church in 18 12. The St. Albans family have a tomb
in the church. Now, my father's name was Thomas Vere
Wallace, and it therefore seems probable that his father was
a tenant of the first Baron Vere, and in his will he is styled
" Victualler." He probably kept the inn on the estate.

The only further scrap of information as to my father's

family is derived from a remark he once made in my hearing,

that  his  uncles at Stirling (I  think  he said) were very  tall
men.                              when                       my
       I   myself was six feet           I was sixteen, and

eldest brother William was an inch taller, while my brother

John and sister Fanny were both rather tall. My father and

mother, however, were under rather than over middle height,

and the remark about his tall uncles was to account for this

abnormal height by showing that it was in the family. As

all the Wallaces of Scotland are held to be various branches

of the one family of the hero Sir William Wallace, we have

always considered ourselves to be descended from that famous

stock ; and this view is supported by the fact that our family

crest was said to be an ostrich's head with a horseshoe in its
mouth, and this crest belongs, according to Burke's " Peerage,"
to Craigie- Wallace, one of the branches of the patriot's family.

    Of my mother's family I have somewhat fuller details,

though not going any further back. Her father was John

4  MY LIFE  [Chap.

Greenell, of Hertford, who died there in 1824 at the age of
79. He had two daughters, Martha, who married Thomas
Wilson, Esq., a solicitor, and agent for the Portman estate,
and Mary Anne, my mother. Their mother died when the
two girls were two and three years old. Mr. Greenell married
a second time, and his widow lived till 1828, so that my elder

brothers and sisters may have known her, but she was only
their step-grandmother. Mr. Greenell had died four years
earlier. Although he lived to such a comparatively recent

period, I have not been able to ascertain what was his busi

ness. His father, however, my mother's grandfather, who

died in 1797, aged 80, was for many years an alderman, and
twice Mayor of Hertford (in 1773 and 1779), as stated in the
records of the borough. He was buried in St. Andrew's

churchyard.

      There is also in the same churchyard a family tomb, in
which my father and my sister Eliza are buried, but which
belonged to a brother of my mother's grandfather, William

Greenell, as shown by the following inscription :--

   " Under this tomb with his beloved wife are deposited the remains of
                                William Greenell,

      A native of this parish, who resided 56 years in St. Marylebone,
                               In the County of Middlesex,

                           Where he acquired an ample fortune,
             With universal esteem and unblemished reputation.

                  He died the 17th day of January, 1791, aged 71."

     There is also an inscription to his wife Ann, who died a
year earlier, and is described as the " wife and faithful friend
of William Greenell, of Great Portland Street, Marylebone."
As the tomb was not used for any other interment till my
sister's death in 1832, it seems likely that William Greenell

had no family, or that if he had they had all removed to

other parts of England.

    My mother's mother was a Miss Hudson, whose cousin I

remember as owner of the Town-mill in Hertford, and his

daughters were my sisters' playfellows and friends, but this

family is now extinct so far as the town is concerned.

A sister of my grandfather Greenell married Mr. John

i] MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS                                  5

Roberts, whose son lived many years at Epsom, and this
family is also extinct by the death of an only son in early
manhood, and of an only daughter at an advanced age in

1890.

Through the kindness of Mr. J. B. Wohlmann, late head
master of the Grammar School, I learn that in the parish

registers of births, deaths, and marriages in Hertford, and
            Chauncey's " History
also   in  and in Clutterbuck's "  and Antiquities of  Hertford
shire  "                           History of Herts,"  there are

considerable numbers of Greenells (the name being variously
spelt, as Grinell, Greenhill, etc.), going back continuously to

1S79. I possess an old seal with a coat-of-arms which

belonged to my grandfather, and was believed to be those

of the Greenell family --a cross on a shield with seven balls

on the cross, and a leopard's head for a crest. The balls
indicate the name, " Grenaille " being French for shot ; and

the family were not improbably French refugees after the

massacre of St. Bartholomew in 1 572.
    My mother had several large oil-paintings of the Greenell

ancestors which came to her from her sister, Mrs. Wilson,

when the Wilsons went to South Australia. Being incon

veniently large for our small houses and our frequent re

movals, they were given to the Miss Roberts above mentioned,

who had a large house at Epsom, and on her death they

passed with the house to some relatives of her mother, who

had no kinship whatever with the Greenells. One of these

portraits was that of the great-uncle William Greenell, of

Marylebone, who was an architect, and is represented with

the design of some public building which, we were told, he

had had the honour of himself showing to the king, George

the Second or Third. He is shown as a young man, and I

was said to resemble him, not only in features, but in a slight

peculiarity in one eyebrow, which was indicated on the

portrait. I wished to obtain a photograph of this portrait a

few years ago, but the present owner refused to allow it to

be copied, having, I fancy, some exaggerated idea of its value

as a work of art.

6  MY LIFE  [Chap.

     Other friends or relatives of the Greenell family were

named Russell and Pugh, and are buried at Hertford. A

large gentleman's mourning ring in memory of Richard

Russell, Esq., was given me by Miss Roberts, as, I presume,
the person after whom I was given my second name, though

probably from an error in the register mine is always spelt
with one /, and this peculiarity was impressed upon me in
my childhood. Another ring is from Miss Pugh, a friend of

my mother's, and, I believe, one of the Russell family. We

also possess a very beautiful pastel miniature of Mrs. Frances
Hodges, who was a Miss Russell, and who died in 1809, and

is buried at All Saints, Hertford ; but the precise relationship,

if any, of the Russells Ito the Greenells have not been able

to ascertain.

     One other point may be here mentioned. There seems
to have been some connection by marriage between the

Wallace and Greenell families before my father's marriage, as

shown by the fact that his elder brother, who died in infancy,
was named William Greenell Wallace, and it seems not
unlikely that his mother, Mrs. Dilke, had been a Miss

Greenell before her first marriage.

    I will now say a few words about my father's early life,

and the various family troubles which, though apparently
very disadvantageous to his children, may yet have been on
the whole, as is so often the case, benefits in disguise.

    My father, Thomas Vere Wallace, was twelve years old

when his father died, but his stepmother lived twenty-one

years after her husband, and I think it not improbable that

she may have resided in Marylebone near William Greenell
the architect, and that my father went to school there. The

only thing I remember his telling us about his school was

that his master dressed in the old fashion, and that he had a

best suit entirely of yellow velvet.
     When my father left school he was articled to a firm of

solicitors --Messrs. Ewington and Chilcot, Bond Court, Wal-
brook, I think, as I find this name in an old note-book of my

I] MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS

father's --and in 1792, when he had just come of age, he was

duly sworn in as an Attorney-at-Law of the Court of King's
Bench. He is described in the deed of admittance as of
Lamb's Conduit Street, where he probably lodged while pur

suing his legal studies, it being near the Inns of Court and at

the same time almost in the country. He seems, however,

never to have practised law, since he came into property

which gave him an income of about £500 a year. This I

heard from my sister Fanny.
     From this time till he married, fifteen years later, he

appears to have lived quite idly, so far as being without any

systematic occupation, often going to Bath in the season,

where he used to tell us he had met the celebrated Beau

Brummell and other characters of the early years of the
nineteenth century. An old note-book shows that he was

fond of collecting epitaphs from the churchyards of the

various places he visited ; among which are Brighton, Lowes

toft, Bognor, Ryegate, Godalming, Sevenoaks, Chichester,
etc. Most of these are commonplace reflections on the
uncertainty of life or equally commonplace declarations of

faith in the orthodox heaven, but here and there are more

original efforts.  This is one at Chichester on Henry Case,

aged 28 --

" Here lies a brave soldier whom all must applaud,
  Much hardship he suffer'd at home and abroad,
  But the hardest Engagement he ever was in

  Was the Battle of Self in the Conquest of Sin."

    In the following, at Woodford, Essex, the village poet
has been severely practical :--

        "On William Mears, Plumber.

" Farewell, old friend, for thou art gone
  To realms above, an honest Man.
  A plumber, painter, glazier, was your trade,
  And in sodering pipes none could you exceed.
  In Water- work you took great delight
  And had power to force it to any Height,
  But in Water-closets great was your skill,
  For each branch was subordinate to your will.

8                         MY LIFE                             [Chap.

              But now your Glass is run --your work is done,
              And we scarcely can find such another man.
              Now mourn ye all, and your great loss deplore,
              For this useful man is gone for evermore."

     The following seems to be a heartfelt and worthy tribute
to a good man--Mr. Mark Sanderson, of Chepstow, aged
66:--

                        " Loving, belov'd, in all relations true,

                             Exposed to follies but subdued by few,
                          Reader, reflect, and copy if you can
                             The social virtues of this honest man."

   One more I will give, as it is at least original, from a

tombstone at Lowestoft, Suffolk--

                              "In memory of              Husband.
                               Charles Ward,

                                  Who died May, 1770,
                                           Aged 60.

   A dutiful Son, a loving Brother, and an affectionate

    This Stone is not erected by Susan his wife. She erected a Stone to
John Salter her second Husband, forgetting the affection of Charles
Ward her first Husband."

   In some other old MSS. and note-books are a number of

quotations in prose and verse, mostly from well-known

writers or not of any interest, but among them are a few

that seem worth preserving.

   The following epitaph by a Dominican friar on Pope
Clement the Fourth is remarkable for the ingenuity of the
verse, which
              is equally  good  when the  words  and          sense  are
inverted :--

   " Laus tua, non tua fraus, virtus non copia rerum

     Scandere te fecit, hoc decus eximium,
     Pauperibus tua das, nunquam stat janua clausa,
     Fundere res quaeris, nec tua multiplicas,
     Conditio tua sit stabilis ! non tempore parvo
     Vivere te faciat, hie Deus omnipotens."

                         ( The same reversed.)
   " Omnipotens Deus hie faciat te vivere parvo

     Tempore ! non stabilis sit tua conditio !

     Multiplicas tua nec quxris res fundere clausa

i| MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS 9

                      Janua stat, nunquam das tua pauperibus,
                      Eximium decus hoc fecit te scandere rerum
                      Copia, non virtus, fraus tua non tua Laus."

     My friend, Mr. Comerford Casey, has kindly given me the
following elegant translation of the above :--

                   " Not by intrigue but merit, not by wealth
                      But worth you rose. This is your title, this,
                      That you bestowed your goods on those in need.
                      Your hospitable door was never closed :
                      More eager ever to alleviate
                      The wants of others than to gather gain.
                      May your prosperity be lasting, Pope !
                      May God all-powerful grant you length of days ! "

                                   {The same read backwards)
                   " May God omnipotent remove you soon

                      From earth ! May your prosperity be short !
                      You grasp at gain and shun expense : your door,
                      Inhospitable Pope, stands ever shut.
                      Naught to the poor you give : your power is due
                   To wealth not worth : by intrigue you have risen."

     In faded ink and very old handwriting, probably my

grandfather's, is the following charade, the answer to which

is not given, but it is worth preserving for its style :--

                  " My first's the proud but hapless Child of danger,
                         Parent of highest honours and of woe ;

                      Too long my second to the brave a stranger
                         Heaps useless laurels on the soldier's brow.

                    My whole by dext'rous artifice contrives
                       To gain the prize by which he stands accurst,

                      And plung'd in infamy when most he thrives,
                         He gains my second whilst he gives my first."

    I myself believe the answer to be "cut-purse" --a Shake

 spearean word in common use in the eighteenth century, and
 applying to all the terms of the charade with great accuracy.
 But few of my friends think this solution good enough.

      The following is in my father's writing, and as it is com

 paratively easy, I leave the answer to my young reader's
 ingenuity :--

10  MY LIFE                                              [Chap.

                         "A Riddle.

    " 0 Doctor, Doctor, tell me can you cure
     Or say what 'tis I ail ? I'm feverish sure !
      Sometimes I'm very hot, and sometimes warm,
      Sometimes again I'm cool, yet feel no harm.

      Part bird, part beast, and vegetable part,
      Cut, slash'd, and wounded yet I feel no smart.
      I have a skin, which though but thin and slender,

      Yet proves to me a powerful defender.
      When stript of that, so desperate is my case,
      I'm oft devoured in half an hour's space."

     One more enigma in my father's writing is interesting
because founded on a custom common in my youth, but
which has now wholly passed away.

                   " Kitty, a fair but frozen maid,
                      Kindled a flame I still deplore,

                        The hood-wink'd Boy was called in aid
                           So fatal to my suit before.

                        Tell me, ye fair, this urchin's name
                           Who still mankind annoys ;

                        Cupid and he are not the same,
                        Though each can raise or quench a flame,

                           And both are hood-wink'd boys."

    My sister told me (and from what followed it was pretty

certainly the case) that while he remained a bachelor my
father lived up to his income or very nearly so; and from
what we know of his after life this did not imply any extrava

gance or luxurious habits, but simply that he enjoyed himself
in London and the country, living at the best inns or board
ing-houses, and taking part in the amusements of the period,

as a fairly well-to-do, middle-class gentleman.
     After his marriage in 1807 he lived in Marylebone, and

his ordinary household expenses, of course, increased ; and as
by 1 8 10 he had two children and the prospect of a large
family, he appears to have felt the necessity of increasing his

income. Having neglected the law so long, and probably

having a distaste for he apparently thought quite hope

less to begin to practise as solicitor, and being entirely
devoid of business habits, allowed himself to be persuaded into
    it,
                    a

                                              it

i] MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS

undertaking one of the most risky of literary speculations,

the starting a new illustrated magazine, devoted apparently

to art, antiquities, and general literature. A few numbers
were issued, and I remember, as a boy, seeing an elaborate

engraving of the Portland Vase, which was one of the illustra

tions ; and in those days before photography, when all had
to be done by skilled artists and engravers, such illustrations

were ruinously expensive for a periodical brought out by a

totally unknown man. Another of these illustrations is now

njbefore me, and well shows the costly nature of the work. It
is on large paper,  by 8£ inches to the outer line of the

engraving, the margins having been cut off. It is headed
" Gallery of Antiquities, British Museum, PI. I.," and contains

forty distinct copper-plate engravings of parts of friezes,
vases, busts, and full-length figures, of Greek or Roman art,
all drawn to scale, and exquisitely engraved in the best style
of the period. The plate is stated at the foot to be " Pub

lished for the Proprietor, May ist, 1811," four years after my

father's marriage. It shows that the work must have been of

large quarto size, in no way of a popular character, and too
costly to have any chance of commercial success. After a

very few numbers were issued the whole thing came to grief,
partly, it was said, by the defalcations of a manager or book

keeper, who appropriated the money advanced by my father

to pay for work and materials, and partly, no doubt, from the

affair being in the hands of persons without the necessary
business experience and literary capacity to make it a

success.

    A few old letters are in my possession, from a Mr. E. A.

Rendall to my father, written in 1812 and 181 3, relating to

the affair. They are dated from Bloomsbury Square, and

are exceedingly long and verbose, so that it is hardly possible
to extract anything definite from them. They refer chiefly
to the mode of winding up the business, and urging that the

engraved plates, etc., may be useful in a new undertaking.
He proposes, in fact, to commence another magazine with a

different name, which he says will cost only sixty guineas a
number, and can be published at half a crown. He refers

12  MY LIFE  [Chap.

to the General Chronicle as if that were the title of the

recently defunct magazine, and he admits that my father
may rightly consider himself an ill-used man, though wholly
denying that he, Mr. Rendall, had any part in bringing about
his misfortunes.

     The result was that my father had to bear almost the
whole loss, and this considerably reduced his already too

scanty income. Whether he made any other or what efforts

to earn money I do not know, but he continued to live in

Marylebone till 1816, a daughter Emma having been born
there in that year; but soon after he appears to have re
moved to St. George's, Southwark, in which parish my
brother John was born in 18 18. Shortly afterwards his affairs
must have been getting worse, and he determined to move
with his family of six children to some place where living

was as cheap as possible ; and, probably from having introduc
tions to some residents there, fixed upon Usk, in Monmouth

shire, where a sufficiently roomy cottage with a large garden

was obtained, and where I was born on January 8, 1823. In

such a remote district rents were no doubt very low and

provisions of all kinds very cheap --probably not much more

than half London prices. Here, so far as I remember, only

one servant was kept, and my father did most of the garden
work himself, and provided the family with all the vegetables
and most of the fruit which was consumed. Poultry, meat,
fish, and all kinds of dairy produce were especially cheap ;
my father taught the children himself; the country around

was picturesque and the situation healthy ; and, notwithstand

ing his reverse of fortune, I am inclined to think that this

was, perhaps, the happiest portion of my father's life.

    In the year 1828 my mother's mother-in-law, Mrs. Rebecca
Greenell, died at Hertford, and I presume it was in conse
quence of this event that the family left Usk in that year,

and lived at Hertford for the next nine or ten years, re

moving to Hoddesdon in 1837 or 1838, where my father died
in 1843. These last fifteen years of his life were a period of
great trouble and anxiety, his affairs becoming more and

I]  MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS  13

more involved, till at last the family became almost wholly
dependent on my mother's small marriage settlement of less

than a hundred a year, supplemented by his taking a few
pupils and by a small salary which he received as librarian to
a subscription library. While at Hoddesdon my sister Fanny
got up a small boarding-school for young ladies in a roomy,

old-fashioned house with a large garden, where my father
passed the last few years of his life in comparative freedom

from worry about money matters, because these had reached

such a pitch that nothing worse was to be expected.
     During the latter part of the time we lived at Hertford

his troubles were great. He appears to have allowed a

solicitor and friend whom he trusted to realize what remained
of his property and invest it in ground-rents which would

bring in a larger income, and at the same time be perfectly
secure. For a few years the income from this property was

duly paid him, then it was partially and afterwards wholly
stopped. It appeared that the solicitor was himself engaged
in a large building speculation in London, which was certain

to be ultimately of great value, but which he had not capital

enough to complete. He therefore had to raise money, and

did so by using funds entrusted to him for other purposes,

among them my father's small capital, in the absolute belief
that it was quite as safe an investment as the ground-rents
in which it was supposed to be invested. But, unfortunately,
other creditors pressed upon him, and he was obliged to
sacrifice the whole of the building estate at almost a nominal

price. Out of the wreck of the solicitor's fortune my father

obtained a small portion of the money due, with promises to

pay all at some future time ; and I recollect his having

frequently to go to London by coach to interview the

solicitor, and try to get some security for future payment.

Among the property thus lost were some legacies from my

mother's relations to her children, and the whole affair got

into the hands of the lawyers, from whom small amounts

were periodically received which helped to provide us with

bare necessaries.

    As a result of this series of misfortunes the children who

MY LIFE  [Chap.

reached their majority had little or nothing to start with in

earning their own living, except a very ordinary education, and
a more or less efficient training. The oldest son, William,
was first articled to a firm of surveyors at Kington, Hereford

shire, probably during the time we resided at Usk. He then
spent a year or two in the office of an architect at Hertford,
and finally a year in London with a large builder named
Martin then engaged in the erection of King's College, in
order to become familiar with the practical details of building.
He may be said, therefore, to have had a really good pro

fessional education. At first he got into general land-

surveying work, which was at that time rather abundant,

owing to the surveys and valuations required for carrying

out the Commutation of Tithes Act of 1836, and also for
the enclosures of commons which were then very frequent.
During the time I was with him we were largely engaged in
this kind of work in various parts of England and Wales, as

will be seen later on ; but the payment for such work was by
no means liberal, and owing to the frequent periods of idle
ness between one job and another, it was about as much as

my brother could do to earn our living and travelling

expenses.

    About the time I went to live with my brother my sister

Fanny entered a French school at Lille to learn the language
and to teach English, and I think she was a year there. On

her return she started the school at Hoddesdon, but after my
father's death in 1 843, she obtained a position as a teacher in

Columbia College, Georgia, U.S.A. then just established
under the Bishop of Georgia ; and she only returned after my
brother William's death in 1846, when the surviving members
of the family in England were reunited, and lived together

for two years in a cottage near Neath, in Glamorganshire.

     My brother John, at the age of fourteen or fifteen, was
apprenticed, first to Mr. Martin and then to Mr. Webster, a
London builder living in Albany Street, Regent's Park, where
he became a thorough joiner and carpenter. He afterwards
worked for a time for Cubitt and other large builders ; then,

when he came to live with me at Neath, he learnt surveying

IJ MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS

and a little architecture. When I went to the Amazon,

he took a small dairy-farm at too high a rent, and not
making this pay, in 1849 he emigrated to California at
the height of the first rush for gold, joined several mining
camps, and was moderately successful. About five years
later he came home, married Miss Webster, and returning to
California, settled for some years at Columbia, a small mining
town in Tuolumne County. He afterwards removed to
Stockton, where he practised as surveyor and water engineer
till his death in 1895.

    My younger brother, Herbert, was first placed with a trunk
maker in Regent Street, but not liking this business, after

wards came to Neath and entered the pattern-shops of the
Neath Ironworks. After his brother John went to California
he came out to me at Para, and after a year spent on the
Amazon as far as Barra on the Rio Negro, he returned to Para

on his way home, where he caught yellow fever, and died in a

few days at the early age of twenty-two. He was the only
member of our family who had a considerable gift of poesy,

and was probably more fitted for a literary career than for

any mechanical or professional occupation.

    It will thus be seen that we were all of us very much

Ithrown on our own resources to make our way in life ; and as

we all, think, inherited from my father a certain amount of
constitutional inactivity or laziness, the necessity for work

that our circumstances entailed was certainly beneficial in

developing whatever powers were latent in us ; and this is

what I implied when I remarked that our father's loss of his

property was perhaps a blessing in disguise.

     Of the five daughters, the first-born died when five months
old ; the next, Eliza, died of consumption at Hertford, aged
twenty-two. Two others, Mary Anne and Emma, died at
Usk at the ages of eight and six respectively ; while Frances

married Mr. Thomas Sims, a photographer, and died in
London, aged eighty-one.

     On the whole, both the Wallaces and the Greenells seem

to have been rather long-lived families when they reached

manhood or womanhood. The five ancestral Wallaces of

16  MY LIFE  [Chap.

whom I have records had an average age of seventy years,
while the five Greenells had an average of seventy-six. Of

our own family, my brother John reached seventy-seven, and
my sister Fanny eighty-one. My brother William owed his
death to a railway journey by night in winter, from London
to South Wales in the miserable accommodation then

afforded to third-class passengers, which, increased by a
damp bed at Bristol, brought on severe congestion of the

lungs, from which he never recovered.

    I will now give a short account of my father's appearance

and character. In a miniature of himself, painted just before

his marriage, when he was thirty-five years old, he is repre
sented in a blue coat with gilt buttons, a white waistcoat, a

thick white neck-cloth coming up to the chin and showing no
collar, and a frilled shirt-front. This was probably his wed

ding-coat, and his usual costume, indicating the transition
from the richly coloured semi-court dress of the earlier
Georgian period to the plain black of our own day. He is

shown as having a ruddy complexion, blue eyes, and care

fully dressed and curled hair, which I think must have been

powdered, or else in the transition from light brown to pure

white. As I remember him from the age of fifty-five onwards,

his hair was rather thin and quite white, and he was always
clean-shaved as in the miniature. He continued to wear the
frilled shirt and thick white neckties, but never wore any
outer clothing but black, of the cut we now term a dress-

suit, but the coat double-breasted, and the whole rather
loose fitting. He also wore large shoes and black cloth
gaiters out-of-doors. This dress he never altered, having at

first one new suit a year, but latterly I think only one every

second or third year ; but he always had one for Sundays
and visiting, which was kept in perfect order. The second

was for everyday wear ; and when gardening or doing any

other work likely to be injurious to his clothes, I think I

remember him wearing a thin home-made holland jacket and

a gardener's apron.

     In figure he was somewhat below the middle height. He

MY FATHER. AGE 35.
   From a miniature.)

                          [To face p. 16, Vol. I.


MY MOTHER. AGE 18.
  {From a miniature.')

                             [To face p. 16. VOl. I.


I]       MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS                                              17

was fairly active and fond of gardening and other country

occupations, such as brewing beer and making grape or elder

wine whenever he had the opportunity ; and during some

years at Hertford he rented a garden about half a mile away,

in order to grow vegetables and have some wholesome exer

cise. He had had some injury to one of his ankles which

often continued to trouble him, and gave him a slight lame

ness, and in consequence of this he never took very long

walks. He was rather precise and regular in his habits,

quiet and rather dignified in manners, and somewhat of what
is termed a gentleman of the old school. Of course, he
always wore a top-hat --a beaver hat as it was then called,
before silk hats were invented -- the only other headgear

being sometimes a straw hat for use in the garden in

summer.

    In character he was quiet and even-tempered, very religious

in the orthodox Church-of-England way, and with such a

reliance on Providence as almost to amount to fatalism. He

was fond of reading, and through reading clubs or lending

libraries we usually had some of the best books of travel or

biography in the house. Some of these my father would

read to us in the evening, and when Bowdler's edition of

Shakespeare came out he obtained  and often read play
                                  it,

                                        I
                                                                  a
to the assembled family. In this way  made my first

acquaintance with Lear and Cordelia, with Malvolio and Sir

Andrew Aguecheek, with the thrilling drama of the Mer

chantI       Venice, with Hamlet, with Lady Macbeth, and other
         of
masterpieces. At one time my father wrote  good deal,
                     it
                                  ;a
                                                 a
                                                                   a

                                                                        a
                                                                           c is
and we were told was history of Hertford, or at other

    times some religious work but they never got finished, and

    do not think they would ever have been worth publishing,

his character not leading him to do any such work with suffi

cient thoroughness. He dabbled little in antiquities and

    in heraldry, but did nothing systematic, and though he had

    fair mental ability he possessed no special talent, either

    literary, artistic, or scientific. He sketched little, but with

    very weak and uncertain touch, and among his few scrap-
a
                 I.                                                              hardly
    and note-books that have been preserved, there

        vol.

18  MY LIFE                                               [Chap.

anything original except one or two short poems in the
usual didactic style of the period, but of no special merit.

I will, however, give here the only two of these that my

mother had preserved, and which are, no doubt, the best

products of his pen. They were evidently both written

at Usk.

                     " Usk Bridge-- A Simile.

    " As on this arched pile I lately strolled
      And viewed the tide that deep beneath it roll'd,
      Eastward impetuous rushed the foamy wave,

      Each quick ingulph'd-- as mortals in the grave ;
      All noisy, harsh, impetuous, was the roar,
      Like the world's bustle -- and as quickly o'er.
      For when a few short steps I westward made
      The river here a different scene displayed,
      Its noisy roar seemed now a distant hum,
      Calm was the surface --and the stream was dumb,

     Silent though swift its course -- and such I cried
     The life of man ! In youth swoll'n high with pride,

      The passions raging, noisy, foaming, bold,
      Like the rough stream a constant tumult hold.
      But when his steps turn towards the setting sun
      And more than half his wayward course is run,
      By age, and haply by religion's aid,
      His pride subdued, his passions too allay'd,
      With quiet pace -- yet swiftly gliding, he
      Rolls to the ocean of Eternity ! "

    On the Custom observed in Wales of dressing the
            Graves with Flowers on Palm Sunday.

        " The sounding bell from yon white turret calls
           The villagers within those sacred walls,
           And o'er the solemn precincts of the dead,
           Where lifts the church its grey time-honoured head,
           That place of rest where parents, children, sleep,
           Where heaves the turf in many a mould'ring heap
           Affection's hand hath gaily decked the ground
           And spring's sweet gifts profusely scatter^ round.
           Pleas'd memory still delights to linger here
           And many a cheek is moistened with a tear.
           The wife, the child, the parent, and the friend
           In soft regret by these sweet trophies bend.

           Nor let the selfish sneer, the proud upbraid,
           The tribute thus by love, by duty paid,

IJ  MY RELATIVES AND ANCESTORS                            19

    In nature's purest sentiments its source,
    Here nature speaks with a resistless force.
    What though these flow'rets speedily decay
    Yet they our love, our tenderest thoughts display,
    Of friends departed a memorial sweet
    With which their relics thus we fondly greet,
    ' Our minds revisit those we loved when here,
    Tho' lost to sight, to memory still they're dear.' "

     In consequence of this custom the Sunday before Easter

was called in Wales "Flowering Sunday," and was looked

forward to by most families as an event of special interest,

and by children as quite a festival. It is always a pretty

sight when even a grave here and there is nicely adorned
with fresh flowers, but when a whole churchyard is so deco
rated, at least as regards all but the oldest tombs, it becomes

really beautiful. The long procession during the morning of

women and children carrying baskets of flowers, and coming
in from various directions, often from many miles distant,
adds greatly to the interest of the scene. This custom seems

to be one of the expressions of the idealism and poetry
characteristic of most Celtic peoples.

           CHAPTER II

           USK : MY EARLIEST MEMORIES

My earliest recollections are of myself as a little boy in short

frocks and with bare arms and legs, playing with my brother

and sisters, or sitting in my mother's lap or on a footstool

listening to stories, of which some fairy-tales, especially
" Jack the Giant-Killer," " Little Red Riding Hood," and
" Jack and the Beanstalk," seem to live in my memory ; and of
a more realistic kind, " Sandford and Merton," which perhaps
Iimpressed me even more deeply than any.
                                          clearly remem

ber the little house and the room we chiefly occupied, with a

French window opening to the garden, a steep wooded bank

on the right, the road, river, and distant low hills to the left

The house itself was built close under this bank, which

was quite rocky in places, and a little back yard between the

kitchen and a steep bit of rock has always been clearly

pictured before me as being the scene of my earliest attempt
to try an experiment, and its complete failure, "^sop's
Fables " were often read to me, and that of the fox which

     was thirsty and found a pitcher with a little water in the

bottom but with the opening too small for its mouth to reach

I it,    and of the way in which made the water rise to the top

     by dropping pebbles into puzzled me greatly. It seemed
           it, it

                              a
                                          it
     quite like magic. So one day, finding jar or bucket standing

     in the yard, determined to try and see this wonderful thing.
       aI
     first with mug poured some water in till was about an

     inch or two deep, and then collected all the small stones  I

     could find and put into the water, but could not see that
           I

                             it

                                      I
     the water rose up as thought ought to have done. Then

           20



[Chap. II] USK : MY EARLIEST MEMORIES                                        2i

I got my little spade and scraped up stones off the gravel

                     of course, some of the soft gravel, but
path, and withI it I

                           it,
                                       it it
                                                           I
instead of the water rising, merely turned to mud and the
                                                              ;
more put in the muddier became, while there seemed to
                                                                    a
be even less water than before. At last became tired and
                                                                                      ;
gave  up, and concluded that the story could not be true

and am afraid this rather made me disbelieve in experi
ments out of story-books.

    The river in front of our house was the Usk, fine

stream on which we often saw men fishing in coracles, the
ancient form of boat made of strong wicker-work, somewhat

the shape of the deeper half of cockle-shell, and covered
with bullock's hide. Each coracle held one man, and could
             it,                                              it
                             is

                                              a
                                                     a
be easily carried to and from the river on the owner's back.

In those days of scanty population and abundant fish the

river was not preserved, and number of men got their living,

or part of by supplying the towns with salmon and trout
in their season. It
                     very interesting that this extremely

ancient boat, which has been in use from pre-Roman times,

and perhaps even from the Neolithic Age, should continue to
be used on several of the Welsh rivers down to the present

day. There   it      probably no other type of vessel now in

existence which has remained unchanged for so long period.is
     But the chief attraction of the river to us children was the
                                                              a
opportunity        afforded us for catching small fish, especially        a
Alampreys.
                short distance from our house, towards the

little village of Llanbadock, the rocky bank came close to

the road, and stone quarry had been opened to obtain
                a

stone, both for building and road-mending purposes. Here,

occasionally, the rock was blasted, and sometimes we had the
fearful delight of watching the explosion from safe distance,

and seeing cloud of the smaller stones shoot up into the air.a
At some earlier period very large charges of powder must have

been used, hurling great slabs of rock across the road into the

river, where they lay, forming convenient piers and standing-

places on its margin. Some of these slabs were eight or ten
feet long and nearly as wide and was these that formed
                     ;

                              it

our favourite fishing-stations, where we sometimes found

22                                              MY LIFE         [Chap.

shoals of small lampreys, which could be scooped up in basins

or old saucepans, and were then fried for our dinner or supper,

to our great enjoyment. I think what we caught must have

been the young fish, as my recollection of them is that they

were like little eels, and not more than six or eight inches

long, whereas the full-grown lampreys are from a foot and a

half to nearly three feet long.

    The lamprey was a favourite dish with our ancestors, and

is still considered a luxury in some districts, while in others it

is rejected as disagreeable, and the living fish is thought to

be even poisonous. This                         no doubt, partly owing to its
    it
              it

                                         is,

                                                         J.
wriggling, snake-like motions, and its curious sucking mouth,

by which sticks on the hand and frightens people so much

that they throw away instantly. But the Rev. G. Wood,
in his very interesting " Natural History," tells us that he has

caught thousands of them with his bare hands, and has often

had six or seven at once sticking to his hand without causing
the slightest pain or leaving the least mark. The quantity of

these fish so great in some rivers that they would supply
  large amount of wholesome food were there not such
a                                               I
                   is
                                                                          a
                                                                                           a
prejudice against them. Since this period of my early child

hood do not think have ever eaten or even seen lamprey.

    At this time must have been about four years old, as
we left Usk when was about five, or less. My brother John

was four and half years older, and expect was the leader
in most of our games and explorations. My two sisters were
    I

                      a

                 II
                      I

five and seven years older than John, so that they would have
been about thirteen and fifteen, which would appear to me
quite grown up and this makes me think that my recollec
I

                    is

                                             ;
tions must go back to the time when was just over three, as
                                                if
    quite distinctly remember two, not three, besides myselfa if

standing on the flat stones and catching lampreys.    II
                                                             I
     There also another incident in which remember that
my brother and at least one, not two, of my sisters took
part. Among the books read to us was " Sandford and
Merton," the only part of which that distinctly remember

is  when the two boys got lost in wood after dark, and while

Merton could do nothing but cry at the idea of having to

II]  USK : MY EARLIEST MEMORIES  23

pass the night without supper or bed, the resourceful Sand-
ford comforted him by promising that he should have both,

and set him to gather sticks for a fire, which he lit with a

tinder-box and match from his pocket. Then, when a large

fire had been made, he produced some potatoes which he had
picked up in a field on the way, and which he then roasted

beautifully in the embers, and even produced from another
pocket a pinch of salt in a screw of paper, so that the two
boys had a very good supper. Then, collecting fern and

dead leaves for a bed, and I think making a coverlet by

taking off their two jackets, which made them quite comfort

able while lying as close together as possible, they enjoyed a
good night's sleep till daybreak, when they easily found their

way home.
      This seemed so delightful that one day John provided

 himself with the matchbox, salt, and potatoes, and having

 climbed up the steep bank behind our house, as we often did,

 and passed over a field or two to the woods beyond, to my
 great delight a fire was made, and we also feasted on potatoes
 with salt, as Sandford and Merton had done. Of course we
 did not complete the imitation of the story by sleeping in

 the wood, which would have been too bold and dangerous an

 undertaking for our sisters to join in, even if my brother and

I had wished to do so.

     Another vivid memory of these early years consists of
occasional visits to Usk Castle. Some friends of our family
lived in the house to which the ruins of the castle were

attached, and we children were occasionally invited to tea,
when a chief part of our entertainment was to ascend the old

keep by the spiral stair, and walk round the top, which had

a low parapet on the outer side, while on the inner we looked
down to the bottom of the tower, which descended below

the ground-level into an excavation said to have been the
dungeon. The top of the walls was about three feet thick,

and it was thus quite safe to walk round close to the parapet,

though there was no protection on the inner edge but the few

herbs and bushes that grew upon it. For many years this

24  MY LIFE  [Chap.

small fragment of a mediaeval castle served to illustrate for
me the stories of knights and giants and prisoners immured
in dark and dismal dungeons. In our friend's pretty grounds,

where we often had tea, there was a summer-house with a
table formed of a brick-built drum, with a circular slate slab

on the top, and this peculiar construction seemed to us so
appropriate that we named it the little castle, and it still

remains a vivid memory.
     Our house was less than a quarter of a mile from the old

bridge of three arches over the river Usk, by which we

reached the town, which was and is entirely confined to the
east side of the river, while we lived on the west. The walk

there was a very pleasant one, with the clear, swift-flowing

river on one side and the narrow fields and wooded steep
bank on the other ; while from the bridge itself there was a
very beautiful view up the river-valley, of the mountains near

Abergavenny, ten miles off, the conical sugar-loaf in the
centre, the flat-topped mass of the Blorenge on the left, and
the rocky ridge of the Skirrid to the right. These names

were so constantly mentioned that they became quite familiar
to me, as the beginning of the unknown land of Wales, which

I also heard mentioned occasionally.
    My eldest brother William was about eighteen when I

was four, and was articled to Messrs. Sayce, a firm of land

surveyors and estate agents at Kington, in Herefordshire.

I have an indistinct recollection of his visiting us occasionally,

and of his being looked up to as very clever, and as actually
bringing out a little monthly magazine of literature, science,
and local events, of which he brought copies to show us. I

particularly remember one day his pointing out to the family
that the reflection of some hills in the river opposite us was

sometimes visible and sometimes not, though on both occa
sions in equally calm and clear weather. He explained the
cause of this in the magazine, illustrated by diagrams, as
being due to changes of a few inches in the height of the

water, but this, of course, I did not understand at the time.

    I may here mention a psychological peculiarity, no doubt

iq USK: MY EARLIEST MEMORIES 25

common to a considerable proportion of children of the same

age, that, during the whole period of my residence at Usk, I

have no clear recollection, and can form no distinct mental

image, of either my father or mother, brothers or sisters. I

simply recollect that they existed, but my recollection is only
a blurred image, and does not extend to any peculiarities of

feature, form, or even of dress or habits. It is only at a
considerably later period that I begin to recollect them as

distinct and well-marked individuals whose form and features
could not be mistaken --as, in fact, being my father and
mother, my brothers and sisters ; and the house and surround

ings in which I can thus first recollect, and in some degree
visualize them, enable me to say that I must have been then

at least eight years old.
     What makes this deficiency the more curious is that,

during the very same period at which I cannot recall the

personal appearance of the individuals with whom my life

was most closely associated, I can recall all the main features

and many of the details of my outdoor, and, to a less degree,
of my indoor, surroundings. The form and colour of the

house, the road, the river close below the bridge with the
cottage near its foot, the narrow fields between us and
the bridge, the steep wooded bank at the back, the stone
quarry and the very shape and position of the flat slabs on
which we stood fishing, the cottages little further on the
road, the little church of Llanbadock and the stone stile into

the churchyard, the fishermen and their coracles, the ruined

castle, its winding stair and the delightful walk round its top --

all come before me as recall these earlier days with dis

tinctness strangely contrasted with the vague shadowy figures
of the human beings who were my constant associates in all

these scenes. In the house recollect the arrangement of

the rooms, the French window to the garden, and the blue-
papered room in which slept, but of the people always with
me in those rooms, and even of the daily routine of our life,

   remember nothing at all.
         cannot find any clear explanation of these facts in

modern psychology, whereas they all become intelligible
I

   I
                           II
                                  I

                                                                        a it,
                                                                                                       a

26  MY LIFE                                                                            [Chap.

from the phrenological point of view. The shape of my

head shows that I have form and individuality but moder

ately developed, while locality, ideality, colour, and comparison

are decidedly stronger. Deficiency in the first two caused

me to take little notice of the characteristic form and features

of the separate individualities which were most familiar to

me, and from that very cause attracted less close attention ;
while the greater activity of the latter group gave interest

and attractiveness to the ever-changing combinations in out

door scenery, while the varied opportunities for the exercise

of the physical activities, and the delight in the endless

variety of nature which are so strong in early childhood,

impressed these outdoor scenes and interests upon my

memory. And throughout life the same limitations of obser

vation and memory have been manifest. In a new locality it

takes me a considerable time before I learn to recognize my

various new acquaintances individually ; and looking back on

the varied scenes amid which I have lived at home and

abroad, while numerous objects, localities, and events are

recalled with some distinctness, the people I met, or, with few

exceptions, those with whom I became fairly well acquainted,

seem but blurred and indistinct images.

     In the year 1883, when for the first time since my child

hood I revisited, with my wife and two children, the scenes of

my infancy, I obtained a striking proof of the accuracy of

my memory of those scenes and objects. Although the town

of Usk had grown considerably on the north side towards

the railway, yet, to my surprise and delight, I found that no

change whatever had occurred on our side of the river, where,

between the bridge and Llanbadock, not a new house had

been built, and our cottage and garden, the path up to the

front door, and the steep woody bank behind                                            remained
    I
                           in
                                       I
                                                                                  it,
exactly as pictured my memory. Even the quarry appeared

to have been very little enlarged, and the great flat stones

were still in the river exactly as when had stood upon them

with my brother and sisters sixty years before. The one

change noted here was that the well-remembered stone

stile into the village churchyard had been replaced by a

II]  USK : MY EARLIEST MEMORIES  27

wooden one. We also visited the ruined castle, ascended

the winding stair, and walked round the top wall, and every

thing seemed to me exactly as I knew it of old, and neither

smaller nor larger than my memory had so long pictured

it. The view of the Abergavenny mountains pleased and

interested me as in childhood, and the clear-flowing Usk

seemed just as broad and as pleasant to the eye as my

memory had always pictured it.

     There is one other fact connected with my mental nature

which may be worth noticing here. This is an often-repeated

dream, which occurred at this period of my life, and, so far
Ias I can recall, then only.
                              seemed first to hear a distant

beating or flapping sound, as of some creature with huge wings ;

the sound came nearer and nearer, till at last a deep thud was
Iheard and the flapping ceased.
                                 then seemed to feel that

the creature was clinging with its wings outspread against the

wall of the house just outside my window, and I waited in a
kind of fearful expectation that it would come inside. I

usually awoke then, and all being still, went to sleep again.

    I think I can trace the origin of this dream. At a very
early period of these recollections I was shown on the outside

of a house, at or near Usk, a hatchment or funeral escutcheon
--the coat-of-arms on a black lozenge-shaped ground often

put up on the house of a deceased person of rank or of

ancient lineage. At the time I only saw an unmeaning

jumble of strange dragon-like forms surrounded with black,

Iand I was told that it was there because somebody was dead ;

and when this curious dream came at once associated it

with the hatchment, and directly I heard the distant flapping
of wings, I used to say to myself (in my dream), "The hatch
ment is coming ; I hope it will not get in." So far as I can

remember, this was the only dream -- at all events, the only

vivid and impressive one -- I had while living at Usk, and it

came so often, and so exactly in the same form, as to become

quite familiar to me. It was, in fact, the form my childish
nightmare took at that period, and though I was always

afraid of it, it was not nearly so distressing as many of the

nightmares I have had since.

28                           MY LIFE                                  [Chap.

    I may here add another illustration of how vividly these

scenes of my childhood remain in my memory. My father

was very fond of Cowper's poems, and often used to read
them aloud to us children. Two of these especially im
pressed themselves on my memory. That about the three
kittens and the viper, ending with the lines --

                " With outstretched hoe I slew him at the door,
                    And taught him never to come there no more ! "

was perhaps the favourite, and whenever I heard it or read it

in after years, the picture always in my mind was of the door
step of the Usk cottage with the kittens and the viper in the
attitudes so picturesquely described. The other one was the
fable of the sheep, who, on hearing some unaccustomed noise,
rushed away to the edge of a pit, and debated whether it
would be wise to jump into it to escape the unknown danger,
but were persuaded by a wise old bell-wether that this would
be foolish, he being represented as saying --

          "  What ! jump     into the pit your lives to  s1a"ve,
             To save your    lives leap into the grave

And as almost the only sheep I had seen close at hand were
in the little narrow field between our house and the bridge, I

always associated the scene with that field, although there

was no pit of any kind in it. So, in after years, when I became

fascinated by the poems of Hood, the beautiful and pathetic
verses beginning --

             " I remember, I remember,
               The house where I was born,
               The little window where the sun

                Came peeping in each morn ;
                He never came a wink too soon,
                Nor brought too long a day,

               But now I often wish the night
                Had borne my breath away,"

always brought to my mind the memory of the little blue-

papered room at Usk, which faced somewhat east of south,

and into  which, therefore,     the sun did "come peeping         in  each
          at least, during      large portion of the year.
morn "--                     a

II] USK: MY EARLIEST MEMORIES 29

   So far as I can remember or have heard, I had no illness

of any kind at Usk, which was no doubt due to the free out

door life we lived there, spending a great part of the day in

the large garden or by the riverside, or in the fields and

woods around us. As will be seen later on, this immunity

ceased as soon as we went to live in a town. I remember

only one childish accident. The cook was taking away a

frying-pan with a good deal of boiling fat in which for
                                           it

                                                       I
                                                                   it,
some reason wanted to see, and, stretching out my arm over
iIt,
    it I

          I
             I

                                 a

                             I
suppose to show that wanted lowered down, my fore

arm went into the fat and was badly scalded. mention this

only for the purpose of calling attention to the fact that,

although vividly remember the incident, cannot recall
                                           I

                                                    I
that suffered the least pain, though was told afterwards

that was really severe burn. This, and other facts of                   is a

similar kind, make me think that young children suffer far

less pain than adults from the same injuries. And this
quite in accordance with the purpose for which pain exists,

which to guard the body against injuries dangerous to life,
is

and giving us the impulse to escape rapidly from any danger.

But as infants cannot escape from fatal dangers, and do not

even know what things are dangerous and what not, only very
slight sensations of pain are at first required, and such only

are therefore developed, and these increase in intensity just

in proportion as command over the muscles giving the power

of rapid automatic movements become possible. The sensa

tion of pain does not, probably, reach its maximum till the

whole organism           fully developed in the adult individual.
is
                a

                     is
This rather comforting conclusion in view of the suffer

ings of so many infants needlessly massacred through the
terrible defects of our vicious social system.

may add here note as to my personal appearance at
I

       I
                                     a
this age.  was exceedingly fair, and my long hair was of                a

very light flaxen tint, so that was generally spoken ofI
among the Welsh-speaking country people as the " little

Saxon."

                  CHAPTER III

             HERTFORD : THE HOME OF MY BOYHOOD

My recollections of our leaving Usk and of the journey to
London are very faint, only one incident of it being clearly
visualized --the crossing the Severn at the Old Passage in
an open ferry-boat. This is so very clear to me, possibly

because it was the first time I had ever been in a boat. I

remember sitting with my mother and sisters on a seat at
one side of the boat, which seemed to me about as wide as a
small room, of its leaning over so that we were close to the
water, and especially of the great boom of the mainsail, when
our course was changed, requiring us all to stoop our heads for

it to swing over us. It was a little awful to me, and I think

we were all glad when it was over and we were safe on land
again. We must have travelled all day by coach from Usk
to the Severn, then on to Bristol, then from Bristol to London.
I think we must have started very early in the morning

and have reached London late in the evening, as I do not

remember staying a night on the way, and the stage then
travelled at an average speed of ten miles an hour over good
roads and in the summer time. The monotony of the journey
probably tired me so that it left no impression ; but besides

the ferry-boat the only other incident I can clearly recall is our

sleeping at an old inn in London, and our breakfast there the

next morning. I rather think the inn was the Green Man, or

some such name, in Holborn, and the one thing that lives in
my memory is that in the morning my mother ordered coffee
for breakfast, and said to the waiter, " Mind and make it
good." The result of which injunction was that it was nearly

                                                            3°

[Chap. Iii] HERTFORD: HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 31

black, and so strong that none of the party could drink
   a
                                      a

                                    I

                                                           a it
                                                                    I,

                                                                                               it,
till boiling water was brought for us to dilute with.                                             of

course, had only milk and water, with perhaps few drops of

coffee as special luxury.              have also but slight

    Of the next few months of my life

recollections, confined to few isolated facts or incidents.

On leaving the inn we went to my aunt's at Dulwich. Mrs.

Wilson was my mother's only sister, who had married a

solicitor, who, besides having good practice, was agent for
                               a
Lord Portman's London property.
                                    I

                                                    a

                                                              I
                                       remember being much

impressed with the large house, and especially with the

beautiful grounds, with lawns, trees, and shrubs such as had

never seen before. There were here also family of cousins,

some about my own age, and the few days we stayed were

very bright and enjoyable.

I  rather think that my father, and perhaps my brother

also, had left Usk few days before us to make arrangements
for the family at Hertford, and think that was taken to
children's school at Ongar, in Essex, kept by two ladies --the
   aa           it                     I

       I             I                           a
             a                                         is
                              a
                                                                      a
Misses Marsh.   think was at this place, because my

father had an old friend there,   Mr. Dyer,  clergyman.

There were number of little boys and girls here about my

own age or younger, and what chiefly remember playingI
with them in the playground, garden, and house. The play

ground was gravel yard on one side of the house, and thereI
we occasionally found what here first heard called " thunder
bolts "--worn specimens of belemnites --fossils of the chalk

formation. We all believed that they fell down during

thunderstorms. One rather exciting incident alone stands

out clear in my memories of this place. There was garden
it

                  a
                             a

                                                     a
                                                                              a

                                                                                 it it
                                                                                               a

                                                                                                             a
sloping down to small pond in the centre, with rather steep

banks and surrounded by shrubs and flower-beds. This was

cut off from the house and yard by low iron fence with

gate which was usually kept locked, and we were not allowed

to play in it. But one day the gardener had left open, and

we all went in, and began pulling and pushing an old-

fashioned stone roller. After little while, as we were pushing

along path which went down to the pond, suddenly

    32           MY LIFE                                     [Chap.

began to go quickly down hill, and as we could not stop      I
and were afraid of being pulled into the water, we had to let      I I it,

go, and the roller rushed on, splashed into the pond, and dis
appeared. We were rather frightened, and were, of course,
lectured on the narrow escape we had had from drowning our
selves. This really all recollect of my first experience of

   boarding-school.
I aa    I is
        My next recollections are of the town of Hertford, wherea
                      a
    we lived for eight or nine years, and where had the wholeaI
    of my school education. We had small house, the first of
                              a     I

        row of four at the beginning of St. Andrew's Street, anda

    must have been little more than six years old when first

    remember myself in this house, which had very narrow

    yard at the back, and dwarf wall, perhaps five feet high,

    between us and the adjoining house. The very first incident

        remember, which happened, think, on the morning after
                           I

    my arrival, was of boy about my own age looking over

    this wall, who at once inquired, " Hullo who are you i"
                                 !

    told him that had just come, and what my name was, and
    we at once made friends. The stand of a water-butt enabled

    me to get up and sit upon the wall, and by means of some

    similar convenience he could do the same, and we were thus

    able to sit side by side and talk, or get over the wall and play
    together when we liked. Thus began the friendship of
    George Silk and Alfred Wallace, which, with long intervals

    of absence at various periods, has continued to this day.
         The way in which we were brought together throughout

    our boyhood  very curious. While at Hertford lived
                 is

                                                             I

    altogether in five different houses, and in three of these the
    Silk family lived next door to us, which involved not only

    each family having to move about the same time, but also

    that two houses adjoining each other should on each occasion

    have been vacant together, and that they should have been

    of the size required by each, which after the first was not the
    same, the Silk family being much the largest. When we

    moved to our second house, George's grandmother had an

    old house opposite to us, and we were thus again brought

is,Hi] HERTFORD : HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 33
                              a
together. Besides this, for the greater part of the time we
                                                                                    awere schoolfellows at the Hertford Grammar School ] and it is
certainly a curious coincidence that this the earliest acquaint
                                                      Iance of my childhood, my playmate and schoolfellow, should
                                                           Ibe the only one of all my schoolfellows who were also friends,

athat I have ever seen again or that, so far as I know, are
        a
now alive.
                           a
    The old town of Hertford, in which I passed the most
impressionable years of my life, and where I first obtained a

rudimentary acquaintance with my fellow-creatures and with
nature, perhaps, on the whole, one of the most pleasantly
situated county towns in England, although as boy did
not know this, and did not appreciate the many advantages
enjoyed. Among its most delightful features are numerous
rivers and streams in the immediately surrounding country,
affording pleasant walks through flowery meads, many pic
turesque old mills, and great variety of landscape. The
river Lea, coming from the south-west, passes through the
middle of the town, where the old town mill was situated in
an open space called the Wash, which was no doubt liable to
be flooded in early times. The miller was reputed to be one
of the richest men in the town, yet we often saw him stand
ing at the mill doors in his dusty miller's clothes as we passed
on our way from school. He was cousin of my mother's
by marriage, and we children sometimes went to tea at his
house, and then, as great treat, were shown all over the
mill with all its strange wheels and whirling millstones, its
queer little pockets, on moving leather belts, carrying the
wheat up to the stones in continual stream, the ever-rattling
sieves and cloths which sifted out the bran and pollard, and

the weird peep into the dark cavern where the great dripping
water-wheel went on its perpetual round. Where the river
passed under the bridge close by, we could clamber up and
look over the parapet into the deep, clear water rushing over

    dam, and also see where the stream that turned the wheel
passed swiftly under low arch, and this was sight that
never palled upon us, so that almost every fine day, as we

     VOL.
a
              L

                                         a
                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                 D

34            MY LIFE                                      [Chap.

passed this way home from school, we gave a few moments

to gazing into this dark, deep water, almost always in shadow

owing to high buildings on both sides of but affording
                                                it,             it a
pleasant peep to fields and gardens beyond.         a
     After passing under the bridge, the river flowed on among
                                                    I
houses and workshops, and was again dammed up to supply

another mill about half mile away, and to form the river
              a
Lea navigation. There was also, in my time, small lateralaa

stream carried off to pump water to the top of a woodena

water-tower to supply part of the town, so that about half a

mile from the middle of the town there were four distinct

streams side by side, though not parallel, which remember

used to puzzle me very much as to their origin. In addition

to these there was another quite distinct river, the Beane,

which came from the north-west till    a it itwas only a furlong
from the Lea at the town bridge, when         turned back to the

north-east, and entered that river half mile lower down,

enclosing between the two streams the fine open space of

about thirty acres called Hartham, which was sufficiently

elevated to be always dry, and which was at once common
                                                a
grazing field and general cricket and playground, the turf
                                                    aI a
being very smooth and good, and seldom requiring to be

rolled. The county cricket matches were played here, and

was considered to be first-rate ground.

    Here, too, in the river Beane, which had gentle stream

with alternate deep holes and sandy shallows, suitable for
boys of all ages, was our favourite bathing-place, where,

not long after our coming to Hertford, was very nearly

being drowned. It was at place called Willowhole, where
                                     Ia I
those who could swim little would jump in, and in few
                                                           Ia
strokes in any direction reach shallower water.           and my

brother John and several schoolfellows were going to bathe,
and who had undressed first, was standing on the brink,

when one of my companions gave me sudden push from
    I,

           I
behind, and tumbled in and went under water immediately.

Coming to the surface half dazed, splashed about and wentI
under again, when my brother, who was four and half years

older, jumped in and pulled me out.           do not think had

irq HERTFORD: HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 35

actually lost consciousness, but I had swallowed a good deal

of water, and I lay on the grass for some time before I got

strength to dress, and by the time I got home I was quite

well. It was, I think, the first year, if not the first time, I

had ever bathed, and if my brother had not been there it is

quite possible that I might have been drowned. This gave
me such a fright that though I often bathed here afterwards,
I always went in where the water was shallow, and did not

learn to swim, however little, till several years later.

Few small towns had then less than six thousand in
                 a
                        (it
habitants) have  more agreeable public playground than

Hartham, with the level valley of the Lea stretching away to

Ware on the east, the town itself just over the river on the

south, while on the north, just across the river Beane, was       it a

steep slope covered with scattered fir trees, and called the

Warren, at the foot of which was footpath leading to the
a
                         a
                                         a
picturesque little village and old church of Bengeo. This

path along the Warren was favourite walk of mine either

alone or with playmate, where we could scramble up the

bank, climb up some of the old trees, or sit comfortably upon

one or two old stumpy yews, which had such twisted branches
and stiff spreading foliage as to form delightful seats. This

place was very little frequented, and our wanderings in

were never interfered with.

In the other direction the river Beane, as already stated,

flows down picturesque valley from the north, but do

not remember walking much beyond Bengeo. A little way
I                                                              I
                            a
                                   a
                                                            a
beyond Hartham, toward Ware, another small stream, the

Rib, came from the north, with mill-stream along the west

side of Ware Park, but this also was quite unexplored by us.
Just out of the town, to the south-west, the river Mimram
joined the Lea. This came through the village of Herting-

fordbury, about mile off, and then through the fine park of

Panshanger, about two miles long and containing about             a

thousand acres. This park was open to the public, and we

occasionally went there to visit the great oak tree which was,
  believe, one of the finest grown large oaks in the kingdom.

It was one of the sights of the district.

     36  MY LIFE                      [Chap.

          About three-quarters of a mile from the centre of the town,it,a
     going along West Street, was a mill called Horn's Mill, whicha
     was a great attraction to me. It was an old-fashioned mill for
                               a
     grinding linseed, expressing the oil, and making oil-cake.
it itThe mill stood close by the roadside, and there were small lowaa

     windows always open, through which we could look in at the
     fascinating processes as long as we liked. First, there were
     two great vertical millstones of very smooth red granite, which
     shone beautifully from the oil of the ground seeds. These
     were fixed on each side of a massive vertical wooden axis on

     a central iron axle, revolving slowly and silently, and crushing

     the linseed into a fine oily meal. A curved fender or scoop

     continually swept the meal back under the rollers with an

     excentric motion, which was itself altogether new to us, and

     very fascinating ; and, combined with the two-fold motion of
     the huge revolving stones, and their beautiful glossy surfaces,
     had an irresistible attraction for us which never palled.

          But this was only one part of this delightful kind of peep-

     show. A little way off an equally novel and still more com

     plex operation was always going on, accompanied by strange
     noises always dear to the young. Looking in at other windows
     we saw numbers of workmen engaged in strange operations
     amid strange machinery, with its hum and whirl and re

     verberating noises. Close before us were long erections like

     shop counters, but not quite so high. Immediately above
     these, at a height of perhaps ten or twelve feet, a long

     cylindrical beam was continually revolving with fixed beams

     on each side of both higher up and lower down. At regular

     intervals along the counter were great upright wooden stampers
     shod with iron at the bottom. When not in action these were

     supported so that they were about two feet above the counter,

     and just below them was square hole. As we looked on
     man would take small canvas sack about two feet long, fill

         quite full of linseed meal from large box by his side,
     place this bag in a strong cover of kind of floorcloth with
     flaps going over the top and down each side. The sack of
     meal thus prepared would be then dropped into the hole, which

        entered easily. Then thin board of hard wood, tapered to
         a

ill] HERTFORD: HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 37

the lower edge, was pushed down on one side of and out
                                                                           a it,
side this again another wedge-shaped piece was inserted.
The top of this was now just under the iron cap of the heavy

pile or rammer, and on pulling rope, this was freed and
                        it
                          it
                                  a it
                                                    a
dropped on the top of the wedge, which forced halfway     it
down. In few seconds was raised up again, and fell upon
it

                     a
the wedge, driving in good deal further, and the third

blow would send down level with the top of the counter.
Then when the rammer rose up, another rope was pulled, and

remained suspended         turn of handle enabled the first
                        ;

                           a
                              a

                                                a
wedge to be drawn out and much thicker one inserted, when,

after two or three blows, this became so hard to drive that the

rammer falling upon made dull sound and rebounded

little and as the process went on the blows became sharper,
                        it                                                        a

                                        a

;

and the pile would rebound two or three times like billiard

ball rebounding again and again from stone floor, but in
                                                       a

more rapid succession. This went on for hours, and when

the process was finished, the meal in the sack had become so

highly compressed that when taken out was found to be
I
                                   a
                                                                       it
converted into compact oilcake. In this mill there were,

think, three or four counters parallel to each other, and on

each, perhaps, six or eight stamps, and when all these were

at work together, but rebounding at different rates and with

different intensities of sound, the whole effect was very strange,

and the din and reverberation almost deafening, but still at

times somewhat musical. During this squeezing process the

oil ran off below through suitable apertures, but was never

seen by us.  I          believe these old stamping-mills are now all

replaced by hydraulic presses, which get more oil out and

leave the cake harder, but the process would be almost silent

and far less picturesque.

    A very interesting and beautiful object connected with

the water-supply of the neighbourhood was the New River
Head or Chadwell Spring, the source of the original New

River brought to London by Sir Hugh Myddleton. It

about two-thirds of the distance from Hertford to Ware, and

   situated in level meadow not far from the high-road, and
is
                        a

                                                                                                             is

38             MY LIFE                                                     [Chap.

about a quarter of a mile from the main river. As I knew
                                                                        a
   was circular pond nearly hundred feet in diameter, filled                     it,
with the most crystal clear water, and very deep in the centre,
it

      a
             a
                                                     a

                                                                a
where the springs were continually bubbling upward, keeping
up good stream which supplied considerable part of the

water in the New River. But its chief beauty was, that the

centre was filled with great flocculent masses of green con
fervas, while the water in the centre appeared to have blue

tint, producing exquisite shades of blue and green in ever-
varying gradations, which were exceedingly beautiful. In

fact only once have seen another spring which equalled
    in beauty, in the little island of Semau, near Timor, and
it

                I

                            it,

                          I

                                             it

                                      I is
that was by no means equal in colour-effects, but only in the
depth and purity of the water and the fine rock-basins that

contained it. am informed that now this beautiful Chadwell

Spring has been entirely destroyed by the boring of deep
wells in the neighbourhood, which have drawn off the springs

that supplied  and that                          now little more than mud-
                                                                        a

hole, the whole New River supply being drawn from the

river Lea or pumped up from deep wells near Ware. Thus

does our morbid civilization destroy the most beautiful works
of nature. This spring was, believe, unequalled in the

whole kingdom for simple beauty.

     While the country to the north and west of the town was

characterized by its numerous streams, mills, and rich meadows,

that to the east and south was much higher and drier, rising

gradually in low undulations to about four hundred feet and
upwards at from four to five miles away. This district was

all gravelly with chalk subsoil, the chalk in many places
coming up to the surface, while in others was only reached

at depth of ten or twenty feet. In the total absence of any

instruction in nature-knowledge at that period, my impression,
and that of most other boys, no doubt, was, that in some way
chalk was the natural and universal substance of which the

earth consisted, the only question being how deep you must

go to reach it. All this country was thickly dotted with

woods and coppices, with numbers of parks and old manor
    a
                                   a

                                                                    it

ni] HERTFORD: HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 39

houses ; and as there were abundance of lanes and footpaths,
it offered greater attractions to us boys than the more culti
vated districts to the north and west. Walking along the
London Road, in about a mile and a half we reached Hertford
Heath at a height of three hundred feet above the sea, and
half a mile further was Haileybury College, then a training
college for the East India Company, now a public school.

All round here the country was woody and picturesque ; but

our favourite walk, and that of the Grammar School boys, on
fine half-holidays in summer, was to what we called the racing-
field, a spot about two miles and a half south of the town. As
this walk is typical of many of the best features of this part
of the town's surroundings, it may be briefly described.

     From the south-west corner of All Saints' Churchyard was

a broad pathway bounded by hedges, called Queen's-bench

Walk, near the top of which was a seat, whence there was a

nice view over the town, and the story was that the seat had

been put there for Queen Elizabeth, who admired the view.

This led into a lane, and further on to an open footpath across
a field to Dunkirk's Farm. In this field, about fifty yards to
the left, was a spring of pure water carefully bricked round,

and as springs were not by any means common, we seldom
went this way without running down to it to take a drink of
water and admire its purity and upward bubbling out of the

earth. At Dunkirk's Farm we crossed the end of Morgan's
Walk, a fine straight avenue of lofty elms (I think) about

three-quarters of a mile long, terminating in a rather large
house --Brickenden Bury. In after years, when I became
acquainted with Hood as a serious writer, the scene of that
wonderful poem which begins with the verse --

                         " 'Twas in a shady Avenue,
                           Where lofty Elms abound --
                                  And from a tree
                                  There came to me
                           A sad and solemn sound,

                           That sometimes murmur'd overhead
                           And sometimes underground "--

was always associated with this Morgan's Walk of my
boyhood, an association partly due to the fact that sometimes

40  MY LIFE                                [Chap.

a woodman was at work felling trees not far off, and this

recalled another verse --

    " The Woodman's heart is in his work,
         His axe is sharp and good :

      With sturdy arm and steady aim

         He smites the gaping wood ;
             From distant rocks
            His lusty knocks

         Re-echo many a rood."

Leaving the avenue we crossed a large field, descending
into a lane in a hollow, whence a little further on a path led
us along the outside of Bayfordbury Park, the old oak palings
of which were well covered with lichen and ivy. Following
this path about a mile further by hedges and little brooks and
small woods, we came out into a sloping grass field of irregular

shape and almost entirely surrounded by woods, while little

streamlets, usually with high banks on one side and low

banks or gravel heaps on the other, offered the most enticing
places for jumping and for playing the exciting game of

follow-my-leader. This we called the racing-field ; why I

never heard, as it was certainly not suited for horse-racing,

though admirably adapted for boyish games and sports.
When the boarders of the Grammar School came here,
usually accompanied by some of the day-scholars and in
charge of one of the masters, or ushers as we then called
them, this was the end of our walk, and we were all free to
amuse ourselves as we liked till the hour fixed for our return.

We then broke up into parties. Some lay down on the grass

to rest or to read, some wandered into the woods bird-nesting,
some played leap-frog or other games. Here again in after

years when I read " The Dream of Eugene Aram," I always

associated it with our games in the racing-field, although the
place described was totally unlike it--

                      " Like sportive deer they coursed about,
                              And shouted as they ran--

                           Turning to mirth all things of earth,
                              As only boyhood can ;

                           But the Usher sat remote from all,

                         A melancholy man."

iii] HERTFORD: HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 41

Our ushers were not melancholy men, but sometimes one
of them would bring a book to read while we played, and this
was sufficient to carry out the resemblance to the poem, and

summon up to my imagination this charming spot whenever

I read it.

     In one corner of this field there was a rather deep circular

hole, from which chalk was brought up as a top-dressing for
some of the poor gravel soil, and this was one of the instances
which led me to the belief that chalk was always somewhere

underground. In this field I was once told that a wonderful

plant, the bee-orchis, was sometimes found, and my father
used to talk of it as a great rarity. Once, during the time

we lived at Hertford, some one showed us the flower, and I

remember looking at it as something so strange as to be

almost uncanny, but as I never found one myself I did not

think more of it.
     Just over the boundary wall of our school playground,

and continuing along the side of the churchyard, and then
across the fields for a long distance southward, was a dry,
irregular ditch or channel cut in the gravel by flood-water
after heavy rains. In places this would be very deep -- six or
eight feet or more, in others shallow, and in some places there
were vertical drops where regular little waterfalls occurred
after storms. The whole appearance of this channel was
very strange and mysterious, as there was nothing like it
anywhere else. We called it the Gulps or Gulphs, but it is
now marked on the ordnance maps as Hag's Dell, showing
that it was looked upon as a mysterious phenomenon by
those who gave it the name. This also was a kind of play
ground, and we sometimes spent a whole afternoon wandering
about it. In the neighbourhood of Morgan's Walk, however,
there were many interesting spots, among others, some old
hedgerows which had been so undermined in a chalky slope

as to form complete overhanging caves, one of which I and

two of my companions made our own, and stored it with a
few necessaries, such as bits of candle, a tinder-box with flint-

steel and matches, and a few provisions, such as potatoes,
which we could roast in our fire, and play at being brigands.

42                          MY LIFE                                 [Chap.

It was in a rather out-of-the-way spot, and quite concealed

from ordinary passers-by, and during all the time that we

frequented we were never disturbed by visitors.
a
                     it,Among the interesting places in the town itself were the

                         acastle and the Bluecoat School. The castle was modern
                                                    a
building in the castellated style, but stood in spaciousit,
                                          a                   a

                                                it
grounds of about four acres near the middle of the town,

with the river flowing through            part of              and with

about two hundred yards of the old defensive wall still

remaining in very complete state. During short period

the family of some of our schoolfellows lived in the castle,

and we occasionally went there to play with them, and en

joyed scrambling along the top of the old wall, which, having

parapet still left, was quite practicable and safe. The moat

which formerly surrounded   a          and was connected with the
                                it,
river, had been long filled up and formed into gardens, which
                                      a
sloped down from the outside of the wall. The original

castle was built by Edward the Elder to protect the town

against the Danes.

    The Bluecoat School was branch of the celebrated

school of the same name, or more properly, Christ's Hospital,

in London. It stood at the upper end of Fore Street,

opposite where the London Road branched off. Enclosed by

lofty iron railings and gates was an oblong playground, about

four hundred feet long by hundred feet wide, bounded on

each side by low buildings, forming offices, schoolrooms, and

dormitories, while at the end were the large dining-hall and

schoolrooms, and in front, near the great gates, the master's

residence. On the gate pillars stood two nearly life-size figures
of boys in the costume of the school --long blue coat and

yellow petticoat, with breeches and yellow stockings, dress
                                                                 a

which was quite familiar to us. Occasionally we went to see

the boys dine in the grand dining-hall, where the old-world

style of everything was of great interest. At the ringing of

an outside bell the boys, 250 in all, came in, and seated them
selves at the long rows of tables. Then one of the older boys

mounted sort of pulpit and read long grace, followed by
    a                                  a                            a

hymn, in which the boys joined. Then the serving began,

Iii] HERTFORD: HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 43

a number of the boys taking this duty by turns. Hot meat
and vegetables were served on flat wooden platters instead of

plates, and I used to pity the boys for not having any place

for gravy, which to me was (and still is) the chief luxury of
hot meat. What was still more amusing to us was that in
place of mugs there were little wooden flagons with wooden

hoops and handles, in which they had, I think, beer. If I

remember rightly, during the meal the boy in the pulpit read
a chapter from the Bible, and at the end there was another

grace and hymn. All was carried out with great regularity

and very little noise, and the crowds of brightly clad boys,

who had red leather belts over their blue coats, and whose

yellow stockings were well visible, together with the fine,
lofty hall, had a very pleasing effect.

    Among the other features of interest in the town were All
Saints' Church, adjoining the Grammar School. I used to

wonder at what seemed to me a curious and rather dangerous
plan of groups of four very slender pillars instead of one
large one to support the arches on each side of the nave.

I did not know then that these were characteristic of the

Early English Gothic, but are not common in our churches.
Another feature of this church was its peal of ten bells, which
were not only uncommonly numerous, but were of very fine

tones, so that when they were well rung, as they frequently

were, they produced an exceedingly musical effect, which I

have never heard equalled since. The church has since been
burnt down and rebuilt, but whether the bells were saved I

do not know.

     Very conspicuous was the square, ugly brick Town Hall
and Market Place at the bottom of Fore Street. This had,

however, a large clock-face projecting outwards and sup
ported by three or four pieces of wood which seemed to hold

it quite detached from the building, and I used to wonder

whether it was a huge watch with all the works inside it.
What made this more curious (to me) was that it struck the
hours and quarters on very loud and sweet-toned bells, which

Iagain have never since heard surpassed. In this hall were

the law-courts, where the Assizes were held, and to which I

44  MY LIFE  [Chap.

sometimes gained admittance, and heard a trial of some poor
sheep-stealers, who in those days were liable to transportation
for life, in order to protect the landed interest, which then

ruled the country.
     The elections for members of Parliament were at that

time scenes of considerable show and excitement, and the
members elected had to undergo the ceremony of being
chaired, which consisted in being carried round the town on
their supporters' shoulders seated in a chair highly decorated

with rosettes and coloured ribbons. I well remember the

election which took place after the Reform Bill of 1832 was
passed, when Thomas Slingsby Duncombe was the Radical
member, and was returned at the head of the poll. I saw

him being chaired, and when he had been brought back to
the door of his hotel, the chair was overturned, as was then

the custom, and he had to jump out into his friends' arms to

avoid an awkward fall. There was then a scramble for the

ribbons and chair-coverings, which were carried away as

trophies.

    To celebrate the great national event --the passing of the
Reform Bill--a banquet was given in the main street to all
who chose to attend. It was summer time, and fine weather,

and we went to see the feast, which was enjoyed by almost all
the poorer people of the town on rows of tables which filled

the street for a long distance.

    In connection with the game of cricket, I may mention

that in those days the players, whether professional or amateur,
had none of the paraphernalia of padded leggings and gaunt
lets now worn ; while a suit of white duck, with an ordinary
white or black top-hat, was the orthodox costume. This was
the time when the practice of overhand bowling was just
beginning, and there was much controversy as to whether or

no it should be allowed. I once saw tried a curious bowling

machine which it was thought might advantageously take the

place of the human bowler. It was called a catapult, and was
on the principle of the old instrument used for throwing stones
into besieged cities. It consisted of a strong wooden frame

about three feet high. On a cross-bar at top was a place for

iii] HERTFORD: HOME OF MY BOYHOOD 45

the ball, and this was struck by a knob on an upright arm,
which was driven on to it by a powerful spring, something in
the manner of a spring-trap. The upright arm was pulled
back and held by a catch, which was released by pulling a

cord. By slight alterations in the position of the ball and the
force of the spring, the ball could be made to pitch on any

spot desired, and could thus be slightly changed each time, as

is the case with a good bowler. It seemed to answer very

well, and it was thought that it might be used for practice
where good bowlers were not available, but it never came
into general use, and is now, perhaps, wholly forgotten.

                     CHAPTER IV

                      HERTFORD : MY SCHOOL LIFE

My recollections of life at our first house in St. Andrew's
Street are very scanty. My father had about half a dozen

small boys to teach, and we used to play together ; but I
think that when we had been there about a year or two, I

went to the Grammar School with my brother John, and was
at once set upon that most wearisome of tasks, the Latin

grammar. It was soon after this that I had the first of the

three serious illnesses which at different periods brought me
within a few hours of death in the opinion of those around

me. I know that it must have been after I went to the

school by the way the illness began. We had school before
breakfast, from half-past six to eight in summer, and as we
had nearly half a mile to walk, it was necessary to be out of

bed at six. One morning I got up and dressed as usual, went
down the two flights of stairs, but when I got to the bottom,

I suddenly felt so weak and faint and curiously ill all over

that I could go no further, so I had to lie down on the bottom

step, and was found there shortly afterwards by the servant
coming down to light the fire. That was the beginning of a

severe attack of scarlet fever, and I remember little more but

heat and horrid dreams till one evening when all the family

came to look at me, and I had something given me to drink
all night. I was told afterwards that the doctor said this was
the crisis, that I was to have port wine in tea-spoonfuls at
short intervals, and that if I was not dead before morning
I might recover.

                                                                      46

[Chap. IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE  47

For some weeks after this I lived a very enjoyable life in

bed, having tea and toast, puddings, grapes, and other luxuries

till I was well again. Then, before going back to Latin

grammar and other studies of the period, a little incident

or interlude occurred which I am unable to place at any
other period. How it came about I do not at all remember,

but a gentleman farmer from Norfolk must have come to see

us about some business, possibly connected with my sister

and her desired occupation as a governess, and seeing me,

and perhaps hearing of my recent illness, offered to take me
home with him for a visit to play with his boy of about my

age, and to go to Cromer, where his wife, with her sister and

son, were going for change of air. As it was thought that the
change would do me good, and I was delighted at the idea of

going to such a nice seaside place as Cromer, his offer was

kindly accepted. As it happened we did not go to Cromer,
but my visit was, so far as I remember, an enjoyable one.

We went by coach to Ely, where we stayed the night at a

large inn almost joining the cathedral. No doubt we had had

dinner on the way, and I had tea on our arrival, but my host,
whose name I cannot remember, dined with a large party of

gentlemen --probably a farmers' dinner --about six o'clock,

and he told me to walk about and see the shops or wait in

the hall, and I should come in for dessert. So for more than
an hour I wandered up and down the street near the hotel
and past the great entrance to the cathedral. At last a

servant came and called me in, and my friend bade me sit

beside him, and introduced me to the company as a real

Wallace--" Scots wae hae wi' Wallace bled," he added, I
suppose to show what he meant. Then I had fruit of many

kinds, including fine grapes, and a glass of wine, and after an

hour more went to bed.

In the morning, after breakfast, we started in a chaise

which had been sent from my friend's home overnight to

meet him, and we had a long drive to the farm, where we

arrived early in the afternoon, and found dinner ready for us.

There were, I think, two ladies, my friend's wife and her
sister, a boy about my own age, and I think the lady's

48  MY LIFE  [Chap.

brother, who had come some miles on a pony to meet us, and
rode back alongside of the carriage.

    Of this visit I remember very little except one or two
incidents. On the very day of our arrival, I think about tea-

time, soon after I and my boy-friend had come in, Mrs.

became very excited, and then went off into violent hysterics,
and was obliged to be taken upstairs to bed. Whether this
had anything to do with putting off the visit to Cromer, or

some other domestic affairs, I never heard. However, next
day all was right again, and I was treated very kindly, as if
to show that I had nothing to do with it. I recall the house

as a rather long white building with green outside shutters,

with a lawn and flower-beds in front, and a kitchen garden

and large orchard on one side. In the fields around were

some fine trees, and I think there was a pond or a stream
near the house and a small village not far off. I and my

companion played and roamed about where we liked, but
what most struck me was the fruit-gathering in the large

orchard, which began the very day after our arrival. I had

never seen so many apples before. They were piled in great

heaps on the ground, while men and boys went up the trees
with ladders and gathered those from the higher branches into

baskets. Of course, my little friend knew the best trees, and

we ate as many as we liked. Sometimes we went out for

drives, or were taken to visit at houses near, or visitors came

to tea ; but how long I stayed there, or how I returned, I

have no recollection, but the main features of the visit as

here related have always remained clearly impressed upon my

memory.

    It may be well here to give a brief outline of my school

life at Hertford and of the schoolmaster who taught me.
The school itself was built in the year 1617, when the school

was founded. It consisted of one large room, with a large
square window at each end and two on each side. In the

centre of one side was a roomy porch, and opposite to it a

projecting portion, with a staircase leading to two rooms
above the schoolroom and partly in the roof. The school

room was fairly lofty. Along the sides were what were termed



IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE 49

porches--desks and seats against the wall with very solid,
roughly carved ends of black oak, much cut with the initials
or names of many generations of schoolboys. In the central
space were two rows of desks with forms on each side.
There was a master's desk at each end, and two others on the

sides, and two open fireplaces equidistant from the ends.
Every boy had a desk the sloping lid of which opened, to
keep his school-books and anything else he liked, and between
each pair of desks at the top was a leaden ink-pot, sunk in a
hole in the middle rail of the desks. As we went to school

even in winter at seven in the morning, and three days a
week remained till five in the afternoon, some artificial light
ing was necessary, and this was effected by the primitive
method of every boy bringing his own candles or candle-ends

with any kind of candlestick he liked. An empty ink-bottle

was often used, or the candle was even stuck on to the desk
with a little of its own grease. So that it enabled us to learn

our lessons or do our sums, no one seemed to trouble about

how we provided the light.
     The school was reached by a path along the bottom of

All Saints' Churchyard, and entered by a door in the wall

which entirely surrounded the school playground and master's

garden. Over this door was a Latin motto --

                   " Inter umbras Academi studere delectat."

This was appropriate, as the grounds were surrounded by
trees, and at the north end of the main playground there were

two very fine old elms, shown in the old engraving of the

school here reproduced.

The headmaster in my time was a rather irascible little

man named Clement Henry Crutwell. He limped very much

owing to one leg being shorter than the other, and the foot I

think permanently drawn up at the instep, but he was very

active, used no stick, and could walk along as quickly and

apparently as easily as most people. He was usually called

by the boys Old Cruttle or Old Clemmy, and when he over

heard these names used, which was not often, he would give

us a short lecture on the impropriety and impoliteness of
vol. I.
                         E

50  MY LIFE  [Chap.

miscalling those in authority over us. He was a good master,
inasmuch as he kept order in the school, and carried on the
work of teaching about eighty boys by four masters, all in
one room, with great regularity and with no marked incon
venience. Whatever might be the noise and games going on
when he was absent, the moment his step was heard in the
porch silence and order at once reigned.

     Flogging with a cane was not uncommon for more serious
offences, while for slighter ones he would box the ears pretty

severely. If a boy did not obey his orders instantly, or

repeated his offence soon afterwards, however trifling it might
be, such as speaking to another boy or pinching him sur
reptitiously, he often, without another word, came down from
his desk and gave the offender a resounding box on the ear.

On one occasion I well remember his coming down to a

rather small boy, giving him a slap on one side of his head
which knocked him down flat on the seat, and when he slowly
rose up, giving him another, which knocked him down on the
other side. Caning was performed in the usual old-fashioned

way by laying the boy across the desk, his hands being held
on one side and his feet on the other, while the master, pulling
the boy's trousers tight with one hand, laid on the cane with
great vigour with the other. Mr. Crutwell always caned the
boys himself, but the other masters administered minor punish
ments, such as slight ear-boxes, slapping the palm with a flat

ruler, or rapping the knuckles with a round one. These

Apunishments were usually deserved, though not always.

stupid boy, or one who had a bad verbal memory, was often
punished for what was called invincible idleness when it was
really congenital incapacity to learn what he took no interest
 in, or what often had no meaning for him. When the usual
 extra tasks or impositions failed with such a boy he was

flogged, but I cannot remember whether in such cases his

 conduct was improved or whether he was given up as " a
 thoroughly lazy, bad boy, who was a disgrace to the school,"
 and thereafter left to go his own way. Such boys were often
 very good playfellows, and the magisterial denunciations had
 little effect upon us.

IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE 51

    Mr. Crutwell was, I suppose, a fairly good classical scholar,
as he took the higher classes in Latin and Greek. I left

school too young even to begin Greek, but the last year or

two I was in the Latin class which was going through Virgil's

" ^Eneid " with him. The system was very bad. The eight or
ten boys in the class had an hour to prepare the translation,
and they all sat together in a group opposite each other and
close to Mr. Crutwell's desk, but under pretence of work there
were always two or three of the boys who were full of talk

and gossip and school stories, which kept us all employed and
amused till within about a quarter of an hour of the time for

being called up, when some one would remark, " I say, let's
do our translation ; I don't know a word of it." Then the

cleverest boy, or one who had already been through the book,
would begin to translate, two or three others would have their
dictionaries ready when he did not know the meaning of a
word, and so we blundered through our forty or fifty lines.
When we were called up, it was all a matter of chance whether

we got through well or otherwise. If the master was in a

good humour and the part we had to translate was specially

interesting, he would help us on wherever we hesitated or
blundered, and when we had got through the lesson, he would

make a few remarks on the subject, and say, " Now I will read

you the whole incident." He would then take out a trans
lation of the " iEneid " in verse by a relative of his own --an

uncle, I think--and, beginning perhaps a page or two back,

read us several pages, so that we could better appreciate
what we had been trying to translate. I, for one, always
enjoyed these readings, as the verse was clear and melo
dious, and gave an excellent idea of the poetry of the
Latin writer. Sometimes our laziness and ignorance were
found out, and we either had to stay in an hour and go
over it again, or copy it out a dozen times, or some other
stupid imposition. But as this only occurred now and then,
of course it did not in the least affect our general mode of
procedure when supposed to be learning our lesson. Mr.
Crutwell read well, with a good emphasis and intonation,

and I obtained a better idea of what Virgil really was from

52                     MY LIFE  [Chaf.

his readings than from the fragmentary translations we

scrambled through.

    The three assistant masters, then called ushers, were very

distinct characters. The English and writing master, who

also taught French, was a handsome, fair young man named
Fitzjohn. He was something of a dandy, wearing white duck

trousers in the summer, and always having a bright -coloured

stiff stock, which was the fashionable necktie of the day.

Those being ante-steel-pen days he had to make and mend

our quill pens, and always had a sharp penknife. He was

consequently the authority among the boys on the different

knife-makers and the best kind of hones for keeping them

sharp ; and when he declared, as I once heard him, that some

knives required oil and others water on the stone to bring

them to a proper edge, we marvelled at his knowledge. What

raised him still higher in our estimation was that he was a

fairly good cricketer, and, even more exciting, he was one of

the County Yeomanry, and upon the days appointed for drill

or inspection, when from his bedroom over the schoolroom he

came down in his uniform with sword and spurs, and marched

across the room, our admiration reached its height. Though
rather contemptuous to the younger boys, he was, I think, a
Ipretty fair teacher.
                       learnt French from him for about two

or three years, and though he taught us nothing colloquially,

and could not, I think, speak the language himself, yet I

learnt enough to read any easy French book, whereas my six

years' grinding at Latin only resulted in a scanty knowledge
of the vocabulary and grammar, leaving me quite unable to

construe a page from a Latin author with any approach to
accuracy. Of course this was partly due to the fact that one

language is much more difficult than the other, but more to

the method of instruction. Had half the time been devoted

to teaching us simple colloquial Latin thoroughly, I feel sure

it would have been far more useful to those who left school

early, and who had no special talent for languages. The
only use Latin has been to me has been the enabling me to

understand the specific descriptions of birds and insects in

that tongue, and also to appreciate the derivation from Latin

IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE 53

of many of our common English words. If the remaining

time had been spent in learning German, the result would

have been far more useful, but I do not think this language

was taught in the school.

     The second master, or head usher, was named Hill. He
had the end desk opposite to Mr. Crutwell's, and was a rather

hard man, who knocked the boys' knuckles with his ruler very

severely. On one occasion I remember seeing a boy whose

hand was not only black and swollen from blows, but had the

skin cut, and was covered with blood. In this case I think

a complaint was made by the boy's parents, and Mr. H.

was informed privately that he must be more moderate in

the future. I do not think I ever had any lessons with this

master.

     The youngest of the ushers was named Godwin, and was
a nephew of Mr. Crutwell. He was rather a large-limbed,
dark young man of eighteen or twenty. He was very good
natured, and was much liked by the boys, in whose games he

often took part. He was, I believe, studying the higher classics

with his uncle with the idea of going to the University, but

I never heard what became of him afterwards. He taught
generally in the school, but the only recollection I have of

him as a teacher was in one special case. Shortly before I

left the school, I and a few others were put to translate one

of the works of Cicero, and we were to be heard the lesson by
Godwin. We had none of us any experience of this author
before, having translated only Ovid and Virgil. We sat
down and worked away with our dictionaries till we knew
the meanings, or some of the meanings, of most of the words,

but, somehow, could not fit them together to make sense.
However, at last we thought we had got something of the
meaning. We were called up, and the boy at the head of
the class began his translation. When he got stuck Godwin

asked the others if they could help him, and when we could

not, he would tell us the meaning of some difficult word, and
then tell the translator to go on. He went on bit by bit till
we got to the end of a long sentence. Then Godwin asked
us if we thought we had got it right. We said we didn't know.

54  MY LIFE  [Chap.

Then he said, " Let's see ; I will read it just as you have

translated it." This he did, and then we could see that we

had not made the least approach to anything that was in

telligible. So we had to confess that we could only make

nonsense of it. Then he began, and translated the whole

passage correctly for us, using very nearly the same words as

we had used, but arranging them in a very different order,

and showing us that the very ideas involved and the whole

construction of the sentence was totally different from any

thing we had imagined. He did all this in a good-humoured
way, as if pitying our being put upon a task so much beyond

us, and, so far as I now recollect, that was our last as well as
our first attempt at translating Cicero. I felt, however, that
if we had had Godwin for our Latin teacher from the beginning

we should have had a much better chance of really learning

the language, and, perhaps, getting to understand Cicero, and

appreciate the beauty and force of his style.

   Next to Latin grammar the most painful subject I learnt

was geography, which ought to have been the most interesting.

It consisted almost entirely in learning by heart the names of

the chief towns, rivers, and mountains of the various countries

from, I think, Pinnock's " School Geography," which gave the

minimum of useful or interesting information. It was some

thing like learning the multiplication table both in the pain-

fulness of the process and the permanence of the results. The

incessant grinding in both, week after week and year after

year, resulted in my knowing both the product of any two

numbers up to twelve, and the chief towns of any English

county so thoroughly, that the result was automatic, and the

name of Staffordshire brought into my memory Stafford,

Litchfield, Leek, as surely and rapidly as eight times seven

brought fifty-six. The labour and mental effort to one who

like myself had little verbal memory was very painful, and

though the result has been a somewhat useful acquisition

during life, I cannot but think that the same amount of

mental exertion wisely directed might have produced far

greater and more generally useful results. When I had to

learn the chief towns of the provinces of Poland, Russia,

IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE 55

Asia Minor, and other parts of Western Asia, with their

almost unpronounceable names, I dreaded the approaching

hour, as I was sure to be kept in for inability to repeat them,

and it was sometimes only by several repetitions that I could

attain even an approximate knowledge of them. No interest
ing facts were ever given in connection with these names, no
accounts of the country by travellers were ever read, no good
maps ever given us, nothing but the horrid stream of unin
telligible place-names, to be learnt in their due order as
belonging to a certain country.

      History was very little better, being largely a matter of
learning by heart names and dates, and reading the very
baldest account of the doings of kings and queens, of wars,
rebellions, and conquests. Whatever little knowledge of history

I have ever acquired has been derived more from Shakespeare's
plays and from good historical novels than from anything I

learnt at school.

     At one period when the family was temporarily broken

Iup, for some reason do not remember, I was for about half

a year a boarder in Mr. Crutwell's house, in company with

twenty or thirty other boys ; and I will here give the routine

of a pretty good boarding-school at that period.
      Our breakfast at eight consisted of a mug of milk-and-

water and a large and very thick slice of bread-and-butter.
 For the average boy this was as much as they could eat, a
few could not eat so much, a few wanted more, and the former
often gave their surplus to the latter. Any boy could have
an egg or a slice of bacon cooked if he bought it himself or
had it sent from home, but comparatively very few had such
luxuries. Three times a week half the boys had a hot buttered
roll instead of the bread-and-butter. These penny rolls were

much larger than any I have seen in recent years, although

this was in the corn-law days, and one of them was as much
as any boy wanted. They were cut in two longitudinally
and well buttered, and were served quite hot from the kitchen
oven. Any boy who preferred it could have bread-and-butter
instead, as a few did, and any bread-and-butter boy who had

56  MY LIFE  [Chap.

not much appetite could have a thin slice instead of a thick
one by asking for it.

     For dinner at one o'clock we had hot joints of meat and
vegetables for five days, hot meat-pies on Saturdays made of
remnants, with some fresh mutton or beef to make gravy,

Iwell seasoned, but always with a peculiar flavour, which

think must have been caused by the meat having been
slightly salted or pickled to keep it good. Of course the
boys used to turn up their noses at this dinner, but the pie
was really very good, with a good substantial crust and
abundance of gravy. On Sundays we had a cold joint of
meat, with hot fruit-pies in the summer and plum-pudding
in the winter, with usually some extra delicacy as custard or
a salad. Every boy had half a pint of fairly good beer to

drink, and any one who wished could have a second helping
of meat, and there were always some who did so, though the
first helping was very liberal.

   At half-past five, I think, we had milk-and-water and

bread-and-butter as at breakfast, from seven to eight we pre
pared lessons for the next day, and at eight we had supper,

consisting of bread-and-cheese and, I think, another mug of

beer. The house where the masters lived and where we had
our meals and slept was in Fore Street, and was about two

hundred feet away from the school ; and the large school

room was the only place we had to go to in wet weather,

when not at meals, but as we were comparatively few in
number, it answered our purpose very well.

     Occasionally Mr. Crutwell gave us a special treat on some

public occasion or holiday. Once I remember he gave us all

syllabub in his private garden, two cows being brought up

for the occasion, and milked into a pail containing two or three
bottles of wine and some sugar. Having been all regaled

with this delicacy and plum cake, and having taken a walk

round the garden, we retired to our playground rejoicing.
     Our regular games were cricket, baseball, leapfrog, high

and long jumps, and, in the winter, turnpikes with hoops.
This latter was a means of enabling those who had no hoops
to get the use of them. They kept turnpikes, formed by two

IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE 57

bricks or stones placed the width of the foot apart, and the

hoop-driver had to pass through without touching. If the

hoop touched he gave it up, and kept the turnpike in his
place. When there were turnpikes every five or ten yards all
round the playground and a dozen or more hoops following
each other pretty closely, the game was not devoid of its little

excitements. We never played football (so far as I remember),

which at that time was by no means such a common game as
it is now. Among the smaller amusements which were
always much liked were marbles and pegtops. Marbles
were either a game of skill or a form of gambling. In the
latter game a small hole was made against a wall, and each
player in turn asked for a hand of two or four or even a

higher number from some other boy ; then with an equal
number of his own he tried to pitch them into the hole, and

if all or any even number remained in he won the whole,
while if the number was odd he lost them. When a boy had

lost all his stock of marbles he bought a halfpenny worth
and went on playing, and in the end some would lose all the
marbles they began with and several pence besides, while

others would retire with their trouser-pockets almost bursting
with marbles, and in addition several pence resulting from

sales in their pockets. I well remember the excitement and

fascination even of this very humble form of gambling play ;
how we would keep on to the very last moment in hopes
of retrieving our losses or adding to our gains, then rush
home to dinner, and return as quickly as possible to play

again before school began. It was really gambling, and

though perhaps it could not have been wholly forbidden, it
might have been discouraged and made the text for some

important teaching on the immorality of gaining only by
another's loss. But at that time such ideas had hardly
arisen in the minds of teachers.

      Pegtops, whipping-tops, and humming-tops were all more

or less appreciated, but pegtops were decidedly the most
popular, and at certain times a large number of the boys
would have them. We used to pride ourselves on being able

to make our tops keep up as long as possible, and often

58  MY LIFE  [Chap.

painted them in rings of bright colours, which showed beauti
fully while they were spinning. Those made of box-wood
and of rather large size were preferred, as their weight, and

the longer string that could be used, caused them to spin
longer. The individuality of tops was rather curious, as some

could only be made to spin by holding them with the peg
upwards, others with it downwards, while others would spin
when held in either position, and thrown almost anyhow.

When tops were in fashion they might have been made the
vehicle for very interesting teaching of mechanics, but that
again was quite beyond the range of the ordinary school
master of the early part of the nineteenth century.

     During my last year's residence at Hertford an arrange

ment was made by which, I suppose, the fees paid for my
schooling were remitted on condition that I assisted in the
school. I was a good writer and reader, and while continuing
my regular classes in Latin and algebra, I took the younger

boys in reading and dictation, arithmetic and writing.

Although I had no objection whatever to the work itself, the

anomalous position it gave me in the school -- there being a
score of boys older than myself who were scholars only --was

exceedingly distasteful. It led to many disagreeables, and

subjected me to painful insinuations and annoying remarks.

I was especially sensitive to what all boys dislike --the being

placed in any exceptional position, or having to do anything
different from other boys, and not of my own choice. Every

time I entered the schoolroom I felt ashamed, and whether I
was engaged at my own lessons or occupied as a teacher, I

was equally uncomfortable, I cannot now remember all the

details of what was to me a constant humiliation, but I am

sure it must have been a time of very real mental anguish
from one result that persisted almost into middle life. For

at least twenty years after I left school, and I think even
longer, I was subject to frequently recurring dreams of still

having to go to school in the hybrid position of pupil and

teacher, aggravated by feeling myself taller, and at last a
man, and yet suffering over again with increased intensity

IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE 59

the shyness and sense of disgrace of my boyhood. In my
dreams I hated to go ; when I reached the schoolhouse I
dreaded to open the door, especially if a few minutes late,
for then all eyes would be upon me. The trouble of not

always knowing what to do came upon me with exaggerated

force, and I used to open my desk and fumble about among

its contents so as to hide my face as long as possible.
     After some years the dream became still more painful by

the thought occurring to me sometimes that I need not go,
that I had really left school ; and yet the next time the
dream came I could not resist the impulse to go, however
much I dreaded it. At last a phase came in which I seemed

to have nothing to do at the school, and my whole time there

was spent in pretending to do something, such as mending

pens or reading a school-book, all the while feeling that the

boys were looking at me and wondering what I was there
for. Then would come a struggle not to go. I would say to
myself that I was sure I had left school, that I had nothing
to do there, that if I never went again nothing would happen ;

yet for a long time I always did go again. Then for a time

I would dream that it was close to the holidays, or that the

next day was breaking-up, and that I had better not go at

all. Then I would remember that my books and slate and
other things were in my desk, and that I must take them
away. And after this for some years I would still occasion
ally dream that I had to go on this last day to carry away my

books and take formal leave of Mr. Crutwell. After having

got to this point even, the dream reappeared, and I went over

the last school-day again and again ; and then the final stage

came, in which I seemed to have the old impulse to go to
school, even started on the way, and then remembered that I
had really left, that I need never go any more, and with an
infinite sense of relief turned back, and found myself in some

quite different life.
     Now, the very long persistence of such a dream as this

shows, I think, how deeply impressionable is the mind at this
period of boyhood, and how very difficult it is to get rid of

painful impressions which have been almost daily repeated.

6o  MY LIFE                                                         [Chap.

Whether or not this particular form of experience in my boy

hood produced any permanent effect on my character I cannot

say, but the mere continuance of a painful dream for so many

years is in itself an evil, and must almost certainly have had

an injurious effect upon the bodily health. Even in my home-

life I was subject to impressions of the same general nature,

though far less severe. Many slight faults of conduct which had

been long overlooked were often suddenly noticed, and I was
ordered at once to change them. One such that I remember
was that I had been accustomed to use my spoon at table
with my left hand, when I was one day told to use my right.
No doubt I could have done this without much trouble, but
I seemed to feel that to make such a change would be singular,

would draw the attention of my brothers and sisters to me,

and would be a kind of confession of ignorance or clumsiness
Iwhich I could not make.
                          felt too much ashamed to do it.
I put down my spoon and waited, and when I thought no one

was looking, took it up again in the way forbidden. This was

said to be obstinacy, but to me it seemed something else which

I could hardly describe. However, the result was that I was

sent away from table up to my bedroom, and was ordered to

have my meals there till I would " do as I was bid." I forget

exactly how it ended, but I think I remained under this

punishment several days, and that it was only under the kind

persuasions and advice of my mother and sisters that I was at

length allowed to come down ; and this was the most terrible

ordeal of all, and when I actually took the spoon in my right
hand, I felt more hurt and ashamed than when I was sent

away from table. This is only an example of numbers of

little things of a similar character, which were treated in the

same rough and dogmatic manner, which was then almost

universal, and was thought to be the only way of training

children. How, exactly, to treat each case must depend upon
circumstances, but I think that a little mild ridicule would
Ihave a better effect than compulsion.
                                        might have been told

that, although we did not much care about other people
    it

                                                               it,
would think very strange, and that we should then be

ashamed because people would say that we did not know

IV] HERTFORD: MY SCHOOL LIFE 61

good manners. Or I might have been asked to practise it

by myself, and try the experiment, using sometimes one
hand and sometimes the other, till at last, when the holidays

or my next birthday came, or I first had new clothes on, I

was to complete the victory over myself by discarding the

left-hand spoon altogether.
     One other case of this kind hurt me dreadfully at the

time, because it exposed me to what I thought was the

ridicule or contempt of the whole school. Like most other
boys I was reckless about my clothes, leaning my elbows on
the desk till a hole was worn in my jacket, and, worse still,
when cleaning my slate using my cuff to rub it dry. Slate

sponges attached by a string were unknown to our school in
those days. As new clothes were too costly to be had very
often, my mother determined to save a jacket just taken for

school wear by making covers for the sleeves, which I was to

wear in school. These were made of black calico, reaching

from the cuff to the elbow, and though I protested that I
could not wear them, that I should be looked upon as a guy,

and other equally valid reasons, they were one day put in my

pocket, and I was told to put them on just before I entered
the school. Of course I could not do it ; so I brought them

back and told my mother. Then, after another day or two of
trial, one morning the dreaded thunderbolt fell upon me.

On entering school I was called up to the master's desk, he

produced the dreaded calico sleeves, and told me that my

mother wished me to wear them to save my jacket, and told

me to put them on. Of course I had to do so. They fitted
very well, and felt quite comfortable, and I dare say did not
look so very strange. I have no doubt also that most of the

boys had a fellow-feeling for me, and thought it a shame to
thus make me an exception to all the school. But to me it

seemed a cruel disgrace, and I was miserable so long as I
wore them. How long that was I cannot remember, but I

do not think it was very long, perhaps a month or two, or
till the beginning of the next holidays. But while it lasted

it was, perhaps, the severest punishment I ever endured.
    In an article on the civilizations of China and Japan in

62                     MY LIFE          [Chap. IV]

The Independent Review (April, 1904),   it is pointed out that
the universal practice of " saving the  face " of any kind of

opponent rests upon the fundamental idea of the right of

every individual to be treated with personal respect. With

them this principle is taught from childhood, and pervades

every class of society, while with us it is only recognized by

the higher classes, and by them is rarely extended to inferiors

or to children. The feeling that demands this recognition is

certainly strong in many children, and those who have

suffered under the failure of their elders to respect
        a                                                                                        can
                                 it

                                                       ;

                                                             a
                                                                                            it,
well appreciate the agony of shame endured by the more

civilized Eastern peoples, whose feelings are so often out

raged by the total absence of all respect shown them by

their European masters or conquerors. In thus recognizing

the sanctity of this deepest of human feelings these people
manifest truer phase of civilization than we have attained

to. Even savages often surpass us in this respect. They

will often refuse to enter an empty house during the absence

of the owner, even though something belonging to themselves

may have been left in  and when asked to call one of

their sleeping companions to start on journey, they will be

careful not to touch him, and will positively refuse to shake

him rudely, as an Englishman would have no scruple in

doing.

                      CHAPTER V

                        HERTFORD : MY HOME-LIFE

As the period from the age of six to fourteen which I spent

at Hertford was that of my whole home-life till I had a home
of my own twenty-eight years later, and because it was in
many ways more educational than the time I spent at school,
I think it well to devote a separate chapter to a short account
of it.

     During the year or two spent at the first house we occu
pied in St. Andrew's Street very little occurred to impress

itself upon my memory, partly, I think, because I was too

young and had several playfellows of my own age, and partly,
perhaps, because the very small house and yard at the back
offered few facilities for home amusements. There was also
at that time too much inequality between myself and my
brother John for us to become such constant companions as
we were a little later.

      When we moved to the house beyond the Old Cross,
nearly opposite to the lane leading to Hartham, the con
ditions were altogether more favourable. The house itself
was a more commodious one, and besides a yard at one side,
it had a small garden at the back with a flower border at

each side, where I first became acquainted with some of our

common garden flowers. The gable end of the house in the
yard, facing nearly south, had few windows, and was covered
over with an old vine which not only produced abundance of
grapes, but enabled my father to make some gallons of wine
from the thinnings. But the most interesting feature of the
premises to us two boys was a small stable with a loft over

                                                                      63

64                               MY LIFE  [Chap.

    which, not being used except to store garden-tools and odd
it,
       a
                   aa

                                   it

                                    It

                                                            a
                                                                        it,

                                                                                   a
                                                                                                             aa
lumber, we had practically to ourselves. The loft especially

was most delightful to us.       was reached by steps formed

by nailing battens across the upright framing of the stable,

with square opening in the floor above. It thus required

little practice to climb up and down easily and to get

safe landing at top, and doing this became so easy to us that

we ran up and down               as easily as sailors run up the

shrouds of vessel. Then the loft itself, under the sloping

roof, gloomy and nearly dark in the remote corners, was

almost like robbers' cave, while door opening to the out

side by which hay could be pitched up out of cart, afforded

us plenty of light when we required       together with the

novel sensation and spice of danger afforded by an opening

down to the floor, yet eight or nine feet above the ground.

    This place was our greatest delight, and almost all the

hours of daylight we could spare from school and meals were

spent in it. Here we accumulated all kinds of odds and ends

that might be useful for our various games or occupations,

and here we were able to hide many forbidden treasures such

as gunpowder, with which we used to make wild-fires as well

as more elaborate fireworks. John was of more mechanical
                                          a
turn than myself, and he used to excel in making all the     a

little toys and playthings in which boys then used to delight.I

    of course, looked on admiringly, and helped him in any
I,
way could.               also tried to imitate him, but only succeeded
    I

                     is

               I
in some of the simpler operations. Our most valuable guide

was the "Boy's Own Book," which told us how to make num

bers of things boys never think of making now, partly because

everything made for them, and also because children get

so many presents of elaborate or highly ornamented toys

when very young, that by the time they are old enough to

make anything for themselves they are quite blast, and can

only be satisfied by still more elaborate and expensive

playthings.  think may be interesting to give short
I
          I

                             it
enumeration of the things which at this time John and

used to make for ourselves.

    may mention first that, owing to the very straightened

V]           HERTFORD: MY HOME-LIFE     65

circumstances of the family during the whole of our life at

Hertford, we were allowed an exceedingly scanty amount of

pocket-money. Till I was ten years old or more I had only

a penny a week regularly, while John may perhaps have had

twopence, and it was very rarely that we got tips to the

amount of the smaller silver coins. We were, therefore,

obliged to save up for any little purchase required for our

various occupations, as, for example, to procure the saltpetre

and sulphur required for making fireworks ; the charcoal we

could make ourselves, and obtain the iron filings from some

friendly whitesmith. The simplest fireworks to make were

squibs, and in these we were quite successful, following the

recipe in the "Boy's Own Book." The cases we made before

hand with a little copy-book paper and paste. Crackers were

much more difficult, and the home-made ones were apt to go

off all at once instead of making the regular succession of

bangs which the shop article seemed never to fail in doing.

But by perseverance some fairly good ones were made, though

they could never be thoroughly trusted. Roman candles we

were also tolerably successful with, though only the smallest

size were within our means ; and we even tried to construct

the beautiful revolving Catherine-wheels, but these again

would often stop in the middle, and refuse either to revolve

properly or to burn more than half way.
    In connection with fireworks, we were fond of making

miniature cannon out of keys. For this purpose we begged

of our friends any discarded box or other keys with rather

large barrels, and by filing a touch-hole, filing off the handle,

and mounting them on block carriages, we were able to fire

off salutes or startle our sister or the servant to our great satis

faction. When, later, by some exchange with a fellow school

boy or in any other way, we got possession of one of the

small brass cannons made for toys, our joy was great ; and I

remember our immense admiration at one of these brass

cannon, about six inches long, in the possession of a friend,

which would go off with a bang as loud as that of a large

pistol. We also derived great pleasure by loading one of our

weapons to the very muzzle, pressing it down into the ground

    vol. 1.                          F

66  MY LIFE  [Chap.

so that we could lay a train of powder to it about two feet
long, and then escape to a safe distance, and see it jump up
into the air with the force of the explosion.

     On the fifth of November we always had a holiday, and

in the evening there was always in the playground a large
bonfire and a considerable display of fireworks by a profes
sional, some of the wealthier of the boys' parents contributing

the outlay. On these occasions almost all the day-scholars

came, their pockets more or less filled with crackers and

squibs, to occupy the time before the more elaborate fire
works. The masters were all present to help keep order
and prevent accidents, and no boy was allowed to light
squib or cracker till about seven o'clock, when Mr. Crutwell

himself lighted the first squib, threw it in the air, and was
immediately followed by the boys in every part of the play
ground, which soon presented a very animated scene. Many
of the parents, relatives, and friends of the boys were also
present, so that the playground was quite crowded, yet though
the boys recklessly threw squibs and crackers in all directions,
no accidents of any importance happened. Now and then a
boy would have the squibs or crackers in his pocket exploded,

but I do not remember any injury being done in that way.
But shortly after I left, I think, a serious accident occurred,
by which some one was permanently injured, and after that I
believe the miscellaneous fireworks of the boys were no longer

allowed.

     Among our favourite playthings were pop-guns and minia
ture spring-guns and pistols. Pop-guns were made of stout
pieces of elder-wood, which, when the pith is pushed out

has a perfectly smooth, glossy inner surface which made a
better pop than those bought at the toy-shop. Many a
pleasant walk we had to get good straight pieces of elder,
which, when cut to the proper length and a suitable strong
stick made to force out the pellets of well-chewed brown

paper or tow, would shoot them out with a report almost
equal to that of a small pistol.

     Far more elaborate and ingenious, however, were the

spring-pistols which my brother made so well and finished

V]  HERTFORD: MY HOME-LIFE  67

so beautifully that he often sold them for a shilling or more,
and thus obtained funds for the purchase of tools or materials.
For the stocks he would beg odd bits of mahogany or walnut
or oak from a cabinet-maker's shop, and carve them out care
fully with a pocket-knife to the exact shape of pistol or gun.
The barrel was formed of a goose-quill or swan's-quill, care
fully fastened into the hollow of the stock with waxed thread,
and about an inch of the hinder part of this had the upper
half cut away to allow the spring to act. In the straight
part near the bend of the stock a hole was cut for the trigger,
which was held in its place by a stout pin passing through
it on which it could turn. The only other article needed was
a piece of strong watch or clock-spring, of which we could
get several at a watchmaker's for a penny. The piece of

watch-spring being broken off the right length and the ends

filed to a smooth edge, was tied on to the stock between the

barrel and the trigger, curving upwards, and one end fitting
into a notch at the top of the trigger, while the other end was

bent round so that the end fitted into a small notch in the

open part of the quill at its hinder end. It was then cocked,

and a pea or shot being placed in front of the spring, a slight
pressure on the trigger would release it and cause it to drive
out the shot or pea with considerable velocity. My brother

used to take great delight in making these little pistols,

shaping the stocks very accurately, rubbing them smooth
with sandpaper, and then oiling or varnishing them ; while

every part was finished off with the greatest neatness. I

do not think there was any boy in the school who made

them better than he did, and very few equalled him.
     One of the most generally used articles of a boy's stock

of playthings are balls, and as these are often lost and soon
worn out we used to make them ourselves. An old bung cut

nearly round formed the centre ; this we surrounded with
narrow strips of list, while for the outside we used coarse
worsted thread tightly wound on, which formed a firm and
elastic ball. We had two ways of covering the balls. One
was to first quarter it tightly with fine string, and using this

as a base, cover the whole with closely knitted string by

68  MY LIFE  [Chap.

means of a very simple loop-stitch. A much superior plan

was to obtain from the tan-yard some partly tanned sac-
shaped pieces of calf-skin which were of just the size required

 for a small-sized cricket-ball. These were stretched over the

ball, stitched up closely on the one side, the joint rubbed

down smooth, and by its partial contraction when drying

an excellent leather-covered ball was made, which at first

was hairy outside, but this soon wore off. In this way, at a
cost of about twopence or threepence, we had as good a ball
as one which cost us a shilling to buy, and which served us

well for our boyish games at cricket.
      Other house occupations which employed much of our

spare time in wet weather and in winter were the making
of cherry-stone chains and bread-seals. For the former we
collected some hundreds of cherry-stones in the season.
These, with much labour and scraping of fingers, were ground
down on each side till only a ring of suitable thickness was

left The rings were then soaked in water for some days,
which both cleaned and softened them, so that with a sharp

pen-knife they could be cut through, and by carefully expand
ing them the next ring could be slipped in, the joint closing

up so as to be scarcely, if at all, visible. When nicely
cleaned, and if made from stones of nearly uniform size, these

chains made very pretty and useful watch-guards, or even
necklaces for little girls of our acquaintance.

      Bread-seals were easier to make, and were more interest

ing in their results. In those ante-penny-postage days
envelopes were unknown, as one of the rules of the post-office
was that each letter must consist of a single sheet, any
separate piece of paper either enclosed or outside constituting
it a double letter with double postage. Almost every letter,
therefore, was sealed, and many of them had either coats-of-

arms, crests, heads, or mottoes, so that besides the contents,
which were, perhaps, only of importance to the recipient,

the seal would often interest the whole family. In such a

case we begged for the seal to be carefully cut round so that
we might make a copy of it. To do this we required only a
piece of the crumb of new bread, and with cleanly washed

V]  HERTFORD: MY HOME-LIFE  69

hands we worked this up with our fingers till it formed a
compact stiff mass. Before doing this, we begged a little
bright water-colour, carmine or Prussian blue, from our sisters,

and also, I think, a very small portion of gum. When all

was thoroughly incorporated so that the whole lump was quite
uniform in colour and texture, we divided it into balls about
the size of a large marble, and carefully pressed them on to the

seals, at the same time squeezing the bread up between our
fingers into a conical shape to form the upper part of the seal
serving as a handle and suspender. Each seal was then care
fully put away to dry for some days, when it got sufficiently

hard to be safely removed. It was then carefully trimmed

round with a sharp pen-knife, and accurately shaped to
resemble the usual form of the gold or silver seals which

most persons carried on their watch-chains to seal their
letters. The seal itself would be perfectly reproduced with
the glossy surface of the original, and when still more hardened

by thorough drying, would make a beautiful impression in
sealing-wax. In this way we used to get quite a collection of

ornamental seals, which, if carefully preserved, would last for

years.

     Almost all the above amusements and occupations were

carried on in the stable and loft already described, during the
two or three years we lived there. After that my brother

John went to London, and was apprenticed to a builder to
learn carpentry and joinery. When left alone at home, my
younger brother being still too young for a playmate, I gave
up most of these occupations, and began to develop a taste for

reading. I still had one or two favourite companions with
whom I used to go for long walks in the country round,

amusing ourselves in gravel or chalk pits, jumping over
streams, and cutting fantastic walking-sticks out of the

woods ; but nothing afterwards seemed to make up for the
quiet hours spent with my brother in the delightful privacy of
the loft which we had all to ourselves. The nearest approach
to it was about a year later when, for some family reason

that I quite forget, I was left to board with Miss Davies at

70                      MY LIFE                              [Chap.

All Saints' Vicarage, then used as a post-office, a large

rambling old house with a large garden, in which there was

among other fruit an apple tree which bore delicious ribston-

pippins, of which I was allowed to eat as many as I liked of

the windfalls. In this house there was a loft in the roof,

which I was told was full of old furniture and other things, so
I one day asked if I might go up into it. Miss Davies, who
was very kind though melancholy, said I might. So I went

up, and found all kinds of old broken or moth-eaten furniture,
broken lamps, candlesticks, and all the refuse of a house
where a family have lived for many years. But among these

interesting things I hit upon two veritable treasures from my

point of view. One was a very good, almost new, cricket-bat,
of a size just suitable to me ; and the other was still more

surprising and attractive to me, being a very large, almost

gigantic, box -wood pegtop, bigger than any I had seen. It

seemed to me then almost incredible that such treasures

could have been ranked as lumber, and purposely left in that

old attic. I thought some one must surely have put them
there for safety, and would soon come and claim them. I

therefore waited a few days till Miss Davies seemed rather
more communicative than usual, when I said to her, " I found
something very nice in the lumber-room." " Oh, indeed ; and
               "        she, " I did
what  is  it      said                not  know  there  was  anything
              ?
nice there." " May I go and fetch them for you to see ? " said
I ; and she said I might. So I rushed off, and brought down
                                      " I found these up there ; do
the  top and the  bat, and said,
you  know whose   they are ? "        She looked at them, and said,
" They must have belonged to
Iwhich                                     ," mentioning a name
              have forgotten. " They have been there a good
many years." Then, as I looked at them longingly, she said,

" You can have them if you like "--as if they were of not the
least value. I felt as if I had had a fortune left me. The

top was the admiration of the whole school. No one had so

large a top or had even seen one so large, yet I was quite

able to spin it properly, my hands being rather large for my

age. This occurred in the winter, and when the cricket

season came, I equally enjoyed my bat, which at once

V]  HERTFORD: MY HOME-LIFE  71

elevated me to the rank of the few bigger boys who had
bats of their own.

     But even these rapturous delights were not so enduring,

and certainly not so educational, as those derived from making

as well as possessing toys and playthings, and the year or

two I spent with my brother in these pleasant occupations

were certainly the most interesting and perhaps the most
permanently useful of my whole early boyhood. They
enabled me to appreciate the pleasure and utility of doing

for one's self everything that one is able to do, and this has
been a constant source of healthy and enjoyable occupation

during my whole life. It led, I have no doubt, to my brother

being apprenticed to a carpenter and builder, where he became

a first-rate workman ; and from him later on I learnt to use
the simpler tools. During my whole life I have kept a few

such tools by me, and have always taken a pleasure in doing

the various little repairs continually needed in a house and

garden. I therefore look with compassion on the present

generation of children and schoolboys who, from their earliest
years, are overloaded with toys, so elaborately constructed
and so highly finished that the very idea of making any toys
for themselves seems absurd. And these purchased toys do
not give anything like the enduring pleasure derived from
the process of making and improving as well as afterwards
using ; while it leads to the great majority of men growing
up without any idea of doing the simplest mechanical work

required in their own homes.

    It was during our residence at this house near the Old
Cross that, I think, my father enjoyed his life more than any

where else at Hertford. Not only had he a small piece of
garden and the fine grape-vine already mentioned, but there
was a roomy brew-house with a large copper, which enabled
him to brew a barrel of beer as well as make elder-wine and

grape-wine, bottle gooseberries, and other such work as he

took great pleasure in doing. When here also, I think, he

hired a small garden about half a mile off, where he could
grow vegetables and small fruit, and where he spent a few

7*  MY LIFE  [Chap.

hours of every fine day. And these various occupations were
an additional source of interest and instruction to us boys.

It was here, however, that our elder sister died of consump

tion in the year 1832, a little before she attained her twenty-
second year. This was a severe loss to my father and mother,

though I was not of an age to feel it much. I think it was

soon afterwards that my remaining sister went to live at

Hoddesdon, four miles away, as governess to two girls in a

gentleman's family there. These girls were somewhere near
my age, or a little older, and occasionally in the summer

my brother and I were invited to dine and spend the after

noon with them, which we greatly enjoyed, as there was a
large garden, and beyond it a large grass orchard full of
apple and other fruit trees. We also enjoyed the walk there,
and back in the evening, through the picturesque country I

have already described. My sister lived in this family for
two or three years, and was on terms of affection with the two
girls till they were married.

    In the year 1834, I think, my sister went to a French

school in Lille in order to perfect herself in conversation, in

view of becoming a governess or keeping a school. But the

following year the misfortune occurred that still further
reduced the family income. Mr. Wilson, who had married
my mother's only sister, was one of the executors of her

father's will, and as he was a lawyer (the other executor
being a clergyman), and his own wife and her sister were the
only legatees, he naturally had the sole management of the
property. Owing to a series of events which we were only

very imperfectly acquainted with, he became bankrupt in this

year, and his own wife and large family were at once reduced
from a condition of comfort and even affluence to poverty,
almost as great as our own. But we children also suffered, for
legacies of £100 each to my father's family, to be paid to us
as we came of age, together with a considerable sum that had
reverted to my mother on the death of her stepmother in
1828, had remained in Mr. Wilson's hands as trustee, and
was all involved in the bankruptcy. He did all he possibly

V]  HERTFORD: MY HOME-LIFE                                                                                  73

could for us, and ultimately, I believe, repaid a considerable

part of the money, but while the legal proceedings were in
progress, and they lasted full three years, it was necessary for
us to reduce expenses as much as possible. We had to leave

our comfortable house and garden, and for a time had the

use of half the rambling old house near All Saints' Church

already mentioned.

    Before this, I think, my brother John had gone to London

to be apprenticed, and the family at home consisted only of
myself and my younger brother Herbert till my sister returned

from France. It must have been about this time that I was

sent for a few months as a boarder at the Grammar School, as
already stated ; but this whole period of my life is very indis

tinct. I am sure, however, that we moved to the next house

in St. Andrew's Street early in 1836, because on May 15 of
that year an annular eclipse of the sun occurred, visible in

England, and I well remember the whole family coming out

with smoked glasses into the narrow yard at the side of the

house in order to see it. I was rather disappointed, as it only

produced a peculiar gloom such as often occurs before a

thunderstorm. While we were here a brewery was being

built at the bottom of the yard, and while inspecting it and
inquiring what the various tanks, boilers, etc., were for, I
learnt that the word " water " was
it must always be spoken of as      tabooed     in a brewery ; that
                                    " liquor,"  and any workman
or outsider mentioning " water" is immediately fined or called

upon to stand a gallon of beer, or more if he can afford it.

    At midsummer, I think, we again moved to a part of a

house next to St. Andrew's Church, where we again had the

Silk family for neighbours in the larger half of the house.
They also had most of the garden, on the lawn of which was

a fine old mulberry tree, which in the late summer was so

laden with fruit that the ground was covered beneath and
I

                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                       it,
    and my friend George used to climb up into the tree,

where we could gather the largest and ripest fruit and feast

luxuriously.
     This was the last house we occupied in Hertford, the

family moving to Hoddesdon some time in 1837, to pretty

74  MY LIFE  [Chap.

but very small red-brick house called Rawdon Cottage, while

I went to London and stayed at Mr. Webster's with my

brother John, preparatory to going with my eldest brother
William to learn land-surveying.

    During the time I lived at Hertford I was subject to

influences which did more for my real education than the

mere verbal training I received at school. My father belonged

to a book club, through which we had a constant stream of
interesting books, many of which he used to read aloud in

the evening. Among these I remember Mungo Park's travels

and those of Denham and Clapperton in West Africa. We

Ialso had Hood's Comic Annual for successive years, and

well remember my delight with " The Pugsley Papers " and

" A Tale of the Great Plague," while as we lived first at a
No. i, I associated Hood's "Number One" with our house,

and learnt the verses by heart when I was about seven years
old. Ever since those early experiences I have been an

admirer of Hood in all his various moods, from his inimitable

mixture of pun and pathos in his "Sea Spell," to the exquisite
poetry of "The Haunted House," "The Elm Tree," and
" The Bridge of Sighs."

     We also had some good old standard works in the house,
" Fairy Tales," " Gulliver's Travels," " Robinson Crusoe," and

the " Pilgrim's Progress," all of which I read over again and
again with constant pleasure. We also had "The Lady of

the Lake," " The Vicar of Wakefield," and some others ; and

among the books from the club I well remember my father

reading to us Defoe's wonderful " History of the Great
Plague." We also had a few highly educational toys, among
which were large dissected maps of England and of Europe,

which we only had out as a special treat now and then, and

which besides having the constant charm of a puzzle, gave us
a better knowledge of topographical geography than all our
school teaching, and also gave me that love of good maps

which has continued with me throughout life. Another
valuable toy was a model of a bridge in wood, the separate
stones constituting the arch of which could be built up on a

V]  HERTFORD: MY HOME-LIFE                                                           75

light centre, showing beautifully the principle of the arch, and
how, when the keystone was inserted the centre supports
could be removed and a considerable weight supported upon
it. This also was a constant source of pleasure and instruction
to us, and one that seems to be not now included among

instructive toys.

    I think it was soon after we went to the Old Cross house

that my father became librarian to a fairly good proprietary

town library, to which he went for three or four hours

every afternoon to give out and receive books and keep
everything in order. After my brother John left home and

I lost my chief playmate and instructor, this library was a

great resource for me, as it contained a large collection of all
the standard novels of the day. Every wet Saturday after

noon I spent there ; and on Tuesdays and Thursdays, which
were our four-o'clock days, I usually spent an hour there

instead of stopping to play or going straight home. Some
times I helped my father a little in arranging or getting down

books, but I had most of the time for reading, squatting
down on the floor in a corner, where I was quite out of the
way. It was here that I read all Fenimore Cooper's novels,

a great many of James's, and Harrison Ainsworth's " Rook-

wood," that fine highwayman's story containing a vivid

account of Dick Turpin's Ride to York. It was here, too, I

read the earlier stories of Marryat and Bulwer, Godwin's
" Caleb Williams," Warren's " Diary of a Physician," and such
older works as "Don Quixote," Smollett's "Roderick Random,"
"Peregrine Pickle," and "Humphry Clinker," Fielding's

" Tom Jones," and Miss Burney's " Evelina." I also read,

partially or completely, Milton's " Paradise Lost," Pope's
" Iliad," Spenser's " Faerie Queene," and Dante's " Inferno," a
good deal of Byron and Scott, some of the Spectator
and Rambler, Southey's " Curse of Kehama," and, in fact,

almost any book that I heard spoken of as celebrated or
interesting. At this time " Pickwick " was coming out in
monthly parts, and I had the opportunity of reading bits

of but do not think read through till considerably
    it,

          I
                              I

                                              it

                                                                                  a

76  MY LIFE  [Chap.

later period. I heard it a good deal talked about, and it

occasioned quite an excitement among the masters in the

Grammar School. Walton's "Angler" was a favourite of

my father's, and I well remember a wood-cut illustration of

Dove Dale with greatly exaggerated rocks and pinnacles,

which made me long to see such a strange and picturesque

spot--a longing which I only gratified about a dozen years
ago, finding it more exquisitely beautiful than I had imagined
it to be, even if not quite so fantastic.

    I may now say a few words about our home-life as regards

meals and other small matters, because I think its simplicity

was perhaps better for children than what is common now.

Till we reached the age of ten or twelve we never had tea or

coffee, our breakfast consisting of bread-and-milk and our

tea of milk-and-water with bread-and-butter. Toast, cake,
muffins, and such luxuries were only indulged in on festive

occasions. At our one-o'clock dinner we began with pudding

and finished with meat and vegetables. During this period
we made our own bread, and good wholesome bread it was,

made with brewer's yeast (which I often went for to the

brewery), and sent to the nearest baker to be baked, as were
most of our baked pies and puddings. Kitcheners were almost

unknown then, and meat was roasted before the open fire with

a clock-work jack, dripping-pan, and large tinned screen to

reflect the heat and to warm plates and dishes.

    A few words about the cost of living will not be out of

place here, and will serve to correct some erroneous ideas on
the subject. Tea was about double the price it is now, but
coffee and cocoa were about the same as at present ; and
these latter were commonly used for breakfast, while tea was
only taken at tea, and then only by the older members of the
family. Sugar was also more than twice as dear, but milk,

eggs, and butter were all cheaper. Although this was in the

corn-law days I doubt if our bread was any dearer than it is
now, and it was certainly much better. It was ground in the

mills of the town from wheat grown in the country round, and

the large size of the penny rolls, which I have already

v]  HERTFORD: MY HOME-LIFE  77

mentioned, shows that there cannot have been much difference

of price to the retail buyer, who was then usually one or two
steps nearer to the actual corn-grower than he is now. Meat
also was cheaper than now. The price of the best beef was

sixpence to sevenpence a pound ; while mutton was seven-
pence to eightpence for the best joints, but for ordinary

parts much less. In the country gleaning was a universal
practice, and numbers of cottagers thus got a portion of their

bread ; while a much larger proportion than now lived in the

country and had large gardens or a few acres of land. My

mother often took me with her when visiting such poor

cottagers as were known to her, and my impression is that
there was very little difference in the kind and degree of the
rural poverty of that day and this ; and a few years later, as

I shall show, the same may be said of the skilled mechanic.
As a prime factor in this question, it must always be re

membered that rent, both in villages and towns, was in most
cases less than half what it is at present, and this more than
compensated for the few cheaper articles of food and clothing

to-day.

     My father and mother were old-fashioned religious people
belonging to the Church of England, and, as a rule, we all

went to church twice on Sundays, usually in the morning and
evening. We also had to learn a collect every Sunday morn

ing, and were periodically examined in our catechism. On
very wet evenings my father read us a chapter from the Bible
and a sermon instead of the usual service. Among our friends,

however, were some Dissenters, and a good many Quakers,
who were very numerous in Hertford ; and on rare occasions
we were taken to one of their chapels instead of to church,
and the variety alone made this quite a treat. We were
generally advised when some " friend " was expected to speak,
and it was on such occasions that we visited the Friends'

Meeting House, though I remember one occasion when, during

the whole time of the meeting, there was complete silence.
And when any brother or sister was " moved to speak," it
was usually very dull and wearisome ; and after having attended
two or three times, and witnessed the novelty of the men and

78  MY LIFE  [Chap. V]

women sitting on opposite sides of the room, and there being
no pulpit and no clergyman and no singing, we did not care
to go again. But the Dissenters' chapel was always a welcome
change, and we went there not unfrequently to the evening
service. The extempore prayers, the frequent singing, and
the usually more vigorous and exciting style of preaching was
to me far preferable to the monotony of the Church service ;

and it was there only that, at one period of my life, I felt

something of religious fervour, derived chiefly from the more

picturesque and impassioned of the hymns. As, however, there
was no sufficient basis of intelligible fact or connected reason

ing to satisfy my intellect, this feeling soon left me, and has

never returned.

     Among our Quaker friends were two or three to whose

houses we were occasionally invited, and I remember being

greatly impressed by the excessive cleanliness and neatness
of everything about their houses and gardens, corresponding
to the delicate colouring and simple style of their clothing.

At that time every Quaker lady wore the plainest of dresses,

but of the softest shades of brown or lilac, while the men all
wore the plain cutaway coat with upright collar, also of some
shade of brown, which, with the low broad-brimmed beaver hat
of the best quality, gave them a very distinctive and old-world
appearance. They also invariably used " thee " and " thou "
instead of "you" in ordinary conversation, which added to

the conviction that they were a people apart, who had many
habits and qualities that might well be imitated by their
neighbours of other religious denominations.

                     CHAPTER VI

        LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS AND OWENITES

HAVING finally left school at Christmas, 1836, 1 think it was

early in 1837 that I was sent to London to live at Mr.

Webster's in Robert Street, Hampstead Road, where my

brother John was apprenticed. My father and mother were

then about to move to the small cottage at Hoddesdon,

and it was convenient for me to be out of the way till my
brother William could arrange to have me with him to learn

land-surveying. As I shared my brother's bedroom and bed,
I was no trouble, and I suppose I was boarded at a very low
rate. As the few months I spent here at the most impres

sionable age had some influence in moulding my character,

and also furnished me with information which I could have
obtained in no other way, I devote the present chapter to

giving a short account of it.
     Mr. Webster was a small master builder, who had a work

shop in a yard about five minutes' walk from the house, where
he constantly employed eight or ten men preparing all the

joinery work for the houses he built. At that time there

were no great steam-factories for making doors and windows,
working mouldings, etc., everything being done by hand,
except in the case of the large builders and contractors, who
had planing and sawing-mills of their own. Here in the yard
was a sawpit in which two men, the top- and bottom-sawyers,
were always at work cutting up imported balks of timber into
the sizes required, while another oldish man was at work day

after day planing up floor-boards. In the shop itself windows

                                                                                   79

8o  MY LIFE  [CHAr.

 and doors, cupboards, staircases, and other joiner's work was
 always going on, and the men employed all lived in the small
 streets surrounding the shop. The working hours were from
 six to half-past five, with one and a half hours out for meals,
 leaving a working day of ten hours.

     Having nothing else to do, I used to spend the greater

 part of my time in the shop, seeing the men work, doing little
jobs occasionally, and listening to their conversation. These
 were no doubt an average sample of London mechanics, and
 were on the whole quite as respectable a set of men as any

in a similar position to-day. I soon became quite at home

 in the shop, and got to know the peculiarities of each of the

men. I heard their talk together, their jokes and chaff, their

wishes and their ideas, and all those little touches of character

which come out in the familiar intercourse of the workshop.
My general impression is that there was very little swearing
 among them, much less than became common thirty years
later, and perhaps about as much as among a similar class of

 men to-day. Neither was there much coarseness or indecency

in their talk, far less indeed than I met with among pro

fessional young men a few years afterwards. One of the best
of the workmen was a very loose character --a kind of
Lothario or Don Juan by his own account-- who would often
talk about his adventures, and boast of them as the very
essence of his life. He was a very good and amusing talker,
and helped to make the time pass in the monotony of the

shop ; but occasionally, when he became too explicit or too

boastful, the foreman, who was a rather serious though very

agreeable man, would gently call him to order, and repudiate
altogether his praises of the joys of immorality. But I never

once heard such foul language as was not uncommonly used
among themselves by young men of a much higher class and

much more education.

    Of course, I heard incidentally a good deal about how

Ithey lived, and knew exactly what they earned, and am

thus enabled to correct some very erroneous statements which
have been made of late years as to the condition of artisans
in the early part of the nineteenth century, before the repeal

VI] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 81

of the corn-laws. Perhaps the most glaring and the most

numerous of these errors are due to Sir Robert Giffen, who,

being considered an official statistical authority, continues to

be quoted to the present day as if his statements were to be

absolutely relied on. More often quoted than any other of
his writings is his " Progress of the Working Classes in the
last Half Century," given as a Presidential Address to the

Statistical Society in 1883, and issued as a pamphlet, price

threepence, in 1884, at the request of several friends, including

Mr. Gladstone, who styled it " a masterly paper." It would

occupy a whole chapter to expose the errors and the fallacies

that pervade this paper, and I must therefore confine myself

to two points only, that of the rise of wages and of the food

of skilled artisans.

Mr. Giffen gives the weekly wages of carpenters at Man

chester as 24s. fifty years ago and 34s. in 1883, an increase of
42 per cent., but he omits to give prices for London. In the

Report of the Industrial Remuneration Conference, Mr. J. G.
Hutchinson gives the wages at Greenwich in 1832 as 32^. 6d.,

and in 1876 as 39J. 8d., a rise of only 22 per cent. Again,
Mrs. Ellis, a Huddersfield pattern-weaver, told the conference

that Mr. Giffen's statements in the same table, of the earnings

of her fellow-workers, were grossly inaccurate. He gave

them as 25 s. a week against 16s. fifty years earlier, whereas
they were only earning an average of 20s. in 1883. The

wages where my brother worked were 30J. a week for all the
men employed. We see, therefore, that Mr. Giffen's general
statement that wages have risen " in most cases from 50 to

100 per cent." is open to the gravest doubt ; while even if it

were nearly accurate, it would not by any means prove what
he claims -- that these workers are very much better off than

they were fifty years earlier. He certainly saves himself,

verbally, by terming it an "apparent rise," but he never

attempts to get at the real rise, and throughout his argument

hardly refers to this point again. Yet it is a most important

one, on account of the fact which he notices, that, at the date

of his paper as now, in all the building trades wages are

reckoned and paid by the hour, instead of by the day as at the
vol. I.
                      G

82                       MY LIFE             [Chap.

earlier period, when also men were rarely discharged except at

the week end. Then, again, Mr. Giffen speaks of the shorter
hours of work which from " one or two scattered notices " he
estimates at nearly 20 per cent., and then adds, " The work

man gets from 50 to 100 per cent. more money for 20 per

cent. less work ; in round figures, he has gained from 70 to
120 per cent. in fifty years in money return." What a con

clusion for a statistician, from a very limited comparison of

wages obtained almost wholly from the masters, and from
" one or two scattered notices/' as regards hours of work !

     But it is when he deals with the real value or purchasing

power of this greatly exaggerated increase of wages that we

find the grossest errors and the wildest declamation. After
just remarking that " sugar and such articles " have decreased

greatly in price, that clothing is also cheaper, and that though
house-rent has gone up, " it cannot have gone up so much as

to neutralize to any serious extent the great rise in the money

wages of the workman," he admits that the increase in the

price of meat is considerable. And then comes this amazing
statement : " The truth
I

                  a
                                        is,

                                                             a

                                                                    it

                                                                                           a

                                                               I
                         however, that meat fifty years ago

was not an article of the workman's diet as  has since

become. He had little more concern with its price than with

the price of diamonds."

         was so perfectly astounded at this statement that at

once made few inquiries. A very intelligent man, printer

in the City, gave me facts from his own observation. About

the time referred to, his father kept public-house in or near

Greenwich, much frequented by mechanics and other work

men, who came there in considerable numbers to have their

dinner. He assured me that almost without exception they

had fresh meat, which they either brought ready cooked, or

had purchased on their way to work and cooked in
    I
                      I

                                                   a
                                                                                    a
frying-pan or gridiron at the kitchen fire, many of them

bringing large chops or steaks of good quality. Remember
ing the cheapness of meat when was boy, and remember
ing also the well-to-do appearance of the carpenters in Mr.

Webster's shop, wrote to ask my brother how they lived

during the twelve years he was in London, the last six working

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 83

as a journeyman in large shops and living on journeyman's

wages. His statement is as follows : --
     " Having been personally associated with the workers in

the building trade about half a century ago (from 1835 to

1845), I feel qualified to describe the social condition of skilled

mechanics at that period, more especially that of the car

penters and joiners. At that time every kind of work was

done by hand, no machines except hand-tools were ever used,
even boards of all thicknesses being sawn on the premises by
hand labour out of thick planks from Northern Europe or

Canada.
     " The wages of good workmen were $s. a day of ten

hours ; and 6d. an hour was added or deducted for any
variation from that time. No wages were paid except for

a fair amount of work, and if the work was temporarily

suspended by rain or otherwise, no compensation was given

or expected. All the joiner's work was done in shops, gene

rally well lighted and with good sanitary conditions ; nothing
but the rough carpenter's work was done in buildings before
the roof was on. Working hours were from 6 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.,
with an hour and a half out for breakfast and dinner. Men

were paid weekly on Saturday evening, and were generally
discharged at that time, and the last two hours and a half
were allowed for grinding tools.

     " The best workmen were seldom discharged unless in

very dull times. At many shops men often worked for years

without ever losing time except through sickness or accident ;
but, of course, these were the very best men. There were

always some out of work, especially in winter or in times of

depression.

    "As regards their social condition, the skilled work
man with his 30J. a week, if a single man of steady and

frugal habits, could save half his wages and have proper
food, lodging, and clothing suitable to his position. His
furnished lodging of one room would cost 4s. a week, and
his three meals a day, taken at the eating-houses and

coffee-shops, would not cost more than 8s. a week; his
working clothes were cheap, and he would have one

84                       MY LIFE  [Chap.

superior suit for Sundays and holidays. Of course, if he

were of a gay disposition, he would spend more and save

less, but that would not be the indispensable outlay of a

working man.

    " In the case of a married man with a family, it would, of
course, be more difficult to save money, but I have known

men live well and respectably, bring up a family, and put by
regularly for the expected ' rainy day,' and eventually build

their own house, and start in business, in a small way at first,

and become masters and gain a competence ; but these are

exceptional cases.
     " The generality of carpenters and joiners with a family

would live in lodgings of two or three rooms with their own

furniture (much of which the man could make in his spare
time in the evening), paying 5s. or 6s. a week, and with a

careful and industrious wife could live well on their wages,

clothe and educate their children, and still have something
Ito put by.
             have never known a carpenter in work, whether

married or single, that did not have a good dinner of meat

and vegetables every day, and on Sundays something extra ;

they always had beer for dinner and often at their work about

ten o'clock, and sometimes in the afternoon.

    " As near as I can recollect the prices of provisions were

for meat from 6d. to id. a pound, bread yd. the four-pound

loaf, butter iod., cheese 8d., and sugar 6d. to gd. The brick

layers had about the same wages as the carpenters, but owing

to lost time during bad weather, they were generally not so

well off, or generally so well housed and fed, but I never

heard or knew of any destitution or want among them. Of

the social condition of the plasterers, painters, and other

house finishers I know less, but all appeared well satisfied

with their condition, and, at all events, no general dissatis

faction was expressed."

    It think, quite clear from this statement of my brother's
    iIs,

                        it
                                is

                                                                                                       a
that the standard of comfort of the skilled artisan was as high

fifty years ago as       now, notwithstanding his somewhat

lower wages and his working ten instead of nine hours day.

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 85

There being no railways and many more small employers,
he seldom spent anything in going to and from his work ;
while, as access to the country was then easier, his holidays
cost him less, with more enjoyment, than going by rail to

some place fifty miles away. It is also absolutely certain

that the food of the workman was quite as good as it is now
or even better, and that meat and beer formed regular articles
of consumption by the average mechanic.

     Now, these almost incredible errors as to matters of fact
teach us that Government officials are quite unfitted to deal
with such questions as these, mainly because they know
nothing at first hand of the lives of the workers and thus
omit to take account of some of the most essential factors
in the problem at issue.

     Thus Mr. Giffen slurs over and minimizes the universal
increase of rent. In the report already quoted, Miss Edith
Simcox gives the results of two inquiries into the poorer

districts of Westminster. A communication to the Statistical

Society in 1840 showed that at that time somewhat less than
a quarter of the wages went to pay rents ; while a somewhat

similar inquiry in 1884 by the Pall Mall Gazette showed that

in another part of Westminster rents were on the average,
for the same accommodation, nearly three times as much as
those recorded forty years before. Combining these two
results, it is clear that, even if workmen have smaller or fewer
rooms than at the earlier period, they must still pay nearly
twice as much rent, and this enormous increase will absorb a
large portion, and in some cases the whole of the increase in

wages.

     Another point which Mr. Giffen omits to notice and allow
for is the fact, well known to all workmen who remember the
earlier period, that the decreased cost of clothing is quite
illusory ; the badness of the materials, made for show rather
than for wear, render them really dearer. At the early period
referred to shoddy was not invented, and paper as part of the
soles in workmen's boots was unknown. The corduroys and
fustians then generally worn by mechanics would last twice

86  MY LIFE  [Chap.

or thrice as long as the cheaper articles now sold under the

same name. Boots were then all good leather and hand-
sewn, and though not so highly finished and a little dearer

than the cheapest kinds now made, would outlast two or

three pairs of the latter. At about the same period my

strong surveying boots cost 14s. a pair, but were really better

in quality than what I should pay 20s. for now. The general

result was, that the workman's clothing cost him rather less

then than they do at the present day.
     Another point Mr. Giffen overlooks which is of consider

able importance. In the earlier period referred to almost all

workshops and factories were much smaller than they are
now, and employed each a much smaller number of men, who
were therefore able to live within about half a mile or less of

their work. If they were sent to work at a distance they

went in their master's time, or if by omnibus at their master's
expense. Now, however, the hundreds of men in each large

builder's or contractor's shops frequently live a mile or several
miles away, and can only reach the shop when work begins
either by a long and hurried walk or by paying tram or rail
way fare to shorten the distance. Under average circum
stances, having often to lose time waiting for train or tram,

and having a walk at both ends from home to station and
from station to work, each often half a mile or more, the loss
of time morning and evening fully makes up for any shorten
ing of actual working hours, while the daily fares are a not
unimportant deduction from the increased wages. Taking
all these things into consideration, we see clearly how it was
that the mechanic of the thirties and forties of the last century
was able to afford quite as much meat as his successor of
to-day, and was, on the whole, quite as well off.

    As my brother was, at the time I am now speaking of,

nearly nineteen and a very good workman, he had complete

liberty in the evenings after seven o'clock, the only limitation

being that he was back about ten ; while on special occasions
he was allowed to take the door-key. He often took me with
him on fine evenings to some of the best business streets in

VI] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 87

London to enjoy the shops, and especially to see anything

of particular interest exhibited in them. Among these objects

was one of the earliest of the large plate-glass windows now

so universal, which, though of quite moderate size, perhaps

five feet high by four or five wide, was at that time a wonder.

I also remember some curious clocks so constructed as to

look like perpetual motion, which greatly interested and often

puzzled us. But our evenings were most frequently spent at
what was then termed a " Hall of Science," situated in John
Street, Tottenham Court Road (now altered to Whitfield
Street). It was really a kind of club or mechanics' institute
for advanced thinkers among workmen, and especially for the

followers of Robert Owen, the founder of the Socialist move

ment in England. Here we sometimes heard lectures on

Owen's doctrines, or on the principles of secularism or agnos

ticism, as it is now called ; at other times we read papers or

books, or played draughts, dominoes, or bagatelle, and coffee

was also supplied to any who wished for it. It was here that

I first made acquaintance with Owen's writings, and especially

with the wonderful and beneficent work he had carried on

for many years at New Lanark. I also received my first

knowledge of the arguments of sceptics, and read among other
books Paine's " Age of Reason."

    It must have been in one of the books or papers I read
here that I met with what I dare say is a very old dilemma
as to the origin of evil. It runs thus : " Is God able to pre

vent evil but not willing ? Then he is not benevolent. Is

he willing but not able ? Then he is not omnipotent. Is he
                                                  "
both able and willing ?  Whence  then  is  evil      This struck
                                                 ?

me very much, and it seemed quite unanswerable, and when

at home a year or two afterwards, I took the opportunity one

day to repeat it to my father, rather expecting he would be

very much shocked at my acquaintance with any such infidel

literature. But he merely remarked that such problems were

mysteries which the wisest cannot understand, and seemed

disinclined to any discussion of the subject. This, of course,
did not satisfy me, and if the argument did not really touch

the question of the existence of God, it did seem to prove

88  MY LIFE  [Chap.

that the orthodox ideas as to His nature and powers cannot

be accepted.

    I was also greatly impressed by a tract on " Consistency,"

written by Robert Dale Owen, the eldest son of Robert

Owen, and as a writer superior in style and ability to his
father. The chief subject of it was to exhibit the horrible
doctrine of eternal punishment as then commonly taught
from thousands of pulpits by both the Church of England
and Dissenters, and to argue that if those who taught and

those who accepted such dogmas thoroughly believed them
and realized their horror, all worldly pleasures and occu

pations would give way to the continual and strenuous

effort to escape such a fate. I remember one illustration

quoted from a sermon, to enable persons to realize to some
extent what eternal punishment meant. After the most
terrible description had been given of the unimaginable
torments of hell-fire, we were told to suppose that the whole
earth was a mass of fine sand, and that at the end of a

thousand years one single grain of this sand flew away into
space. Then -- we were told -- let us try to imagine the slow
procession of the ages, while grain by grain the earth
diminished, but still remained apparently as large as ever, --

and still the torments went on. Then let us carry on the
imagination through thousands of millions of millions of ages,
till at last the globe could be seen to be a little smaller -- and
then on and on, and on for other and yet other myriads of ages,
till after periods which to finite beings would seem almost
infinite the last grain flew away, and the whole material of
the globe was dissipated in space. And then, asked the
preacher, is the sinner any nearer the end of his punishment ?
No ! for his punishment is to be infinite, and after thousands
of such globes had been in the same way dissipated, his

torments are still to go on and on for ever! I myself had

heard such horrible sermons as these in one of the churches

in Hertford, and a lady we knew well had been so affected

by them that she had tried to commit suicide. I therefore

thoroughly agreed with Mr. Dale Owen's conclusion, that the
orthodox religion of the day was degrading and hideous, and

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 89

that the only true and wholly beneficial religion was that
which inculcated the service of humanity, and whose only
dogma was the brotherhood of man. Thus was laid the
foundation of my religious scepticism.

     Similarly, my introduction to advanced political views,

founded on the philosophy of human nature, was due to the
writings and teachings of Robert Owen and some of his
disciples. His great fundamental principle, on which all his
teaching and all his practicewere founded was that thecharacter

of every individual is formed for and not by himself, first by

heredity, which gives him his natural disposition with all its
powers and tendencies, its good and bad qualities ; and,
secondly, by environment, including education and surround

ings from earliest infancy, which always modifies the original

character for better or for worse. Of course, this was a theory
of pure determinism, and was wholly opposed to the ordinary
views, both of religious teachers and of governments, that,

whatever the natural character, whatever the environment

during childhood and youth, whatever the direct teaching, all

men could be good if they liked, all could act virtuously, all
could obey the laws, and if they wilfully transgressed any of

these laws or customs of their rulers and teachers, the only
way to deal with them was to punish them, again and again,
under the idea that they could thus be deterred from future
transgression. The utter failure of this doctrine, which has
been followed in practice during the whole period of human
history, seems to have produced hardly any effect on our
systems of criminal law or of general education ; and though
other writers have exposed the error, and are still exposing

     yet no one saw so clearly as Owen did how to put his
views into practice no one, perhaps, in private life has ever
had such opportunities of carrying out his principles no one
has ever shown so much ingenuity, so much insight into
character, so much organizing power and no one has ever
produced such striking results in the face of enormous diffi
culties as he produced during the twenty-six years of his
management of New Lanark.
it,

                                                   ;
                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                                               ;

9o  MY LIFE       [Chap.

     Of course, it was objected that Owen's principles wereis,
erroneous and immoral because they wholly denied free-will,
because he advocated the abolition of rewards and punish
ments as both unjust and unnecessary, and because, it was

argued, to act on such a system would lead to a pandemonium
of vice and crime. The reply to this is that, acting on the
principle of absolute free-will, every government has alike

failed to abolish, or even to any considerable degree to
diminish, discontent, misery, disease, vice, and crime ; and

that, on the other hand, Owen did, by acting on the principle
of the formation of character enunciated by him, transform

a discontented, unhealthy, vicious, and wholly antagonistic
population of 2500 persons to an enthusiastically favourable,
contented, happy, healthy, and comparatively moral com

munity, without ever having recourse to any legal punish

ment whatever, and without, so far as appears, discharging
any individual for robbery, idleness, or neglect of duty ; and
all this was effected while increasing the efficiency of the

whole manufacturing establishment, paying a liberal interest

on the capital invested, and even producing a large annual
surplus of profits which, in the four years 1809-13, averaged

£40,000 a year, and only in the succeeding period, when the
new shareholders agreed to limit their interest to 5 per cent.
per annum, was this surplus devoted to education and the
general well-being of the community.

     In view of such an astounding success as this, what is the
use of quibbling about the exact amount of free-will human

beings possess? Owen contended, and proved by a grand

experiment, that environment greatly modifies character, that

no character is so bad that it may not be greatly improved
by a really good environment acting upon it from early
infancy, and that society has the power of creating such an
environment. Now, the will is undoubtedly a function of the
character of which it is the active and outward expression ;

and if the character is enormously improved, the will, result

ing in actions whether mental or physical, is necessarily im

proved with it. To urge that the will and remains through

life, absolutely uninfluenced by character, environment,

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 91

or education ; or to claim, on the other hand, that it is
wholly and absolutely determined by them -- seem to me to be
propositions which are alike essentially unthinkable and also
entirely opposed to experience. To my mind both factors
necessarily enter into the determination of conduct as well as
into the development of character, and, for the purposes of
social life and happiness, a partial determinism, as developed
and practised by Owen, is the only safe guide to action,
because over it alone have we almost complete control.
Heredity, through which it is now known that ancestral
characteristics are continually reappearing, gives that infinite
diversity of character which is the very salt of social life ; by
environment, including education, we can so modify and
improve that character as to bring it into harmony with the
possessor's actual surroundings, and thus fit him for perform
ing some useful and enjoyable function in the great social

organism.

     Although most people have heard of New Lanark, few
have any idea of Owen's work there or of the means by which
he gradually overcame opposition and achieved the most

remarkable results. It will, therefore, not be out of place to

give a short account of his methods as explained in his
autobiography ; and it will also be advisable to give a very
brief sketch of the early life of one of the most remarkable,
most original, and, in many respects, most truly admirable
characters which has adorned the nineteenth century.

     Robert Owen was born in 1771, and brought up in
Newtown, a small town in Montgomeryshire, North Wales.
His father was a saddler by trade ; his mother a farmer's
daughter. He was sent to the town school when about five
years old, where the teaching was limited to what are now
termed the three R.'s, and he learnt so quickly that when
about seven years old the schoolmaster took him as an
usher to teach the younger children, and for the next two
years he learnt nothing more at school except how to teach.
This, however, he appears to have taught himself to some

purpose, as his after-life shows. At nine he entered the shop

92  MY LIFE  [Chap.

of a draper and haberdasher, a friend of his father's, where he
went daily for a year, but taking his meals at home. He was
a great reader, and being well known to all the inhabitants,
and evidently much liked and admired, he had free access to
all the libraries in the place, including those of the clergyman,

doctor, lawyer, etc., and he says that he generally read a
volume every day. He also thought much about all that he

read, and at one time, having read many religious books, he
wrote three sermons, which he afterwards destroyed. He also

learnt dancing, of which he was very fond, and this led him
to observe the characters of boys and girls, and also had an
important influence on his views and practice of education.

    At the age of ten, at his own request, he went to London,

where an elder brother was engaged in a saddler's shop.

Through his father's introductions and the recommendation
of the draper in Newtown, he soon obtained an engagement

with a haberdasher at Stamford, who had a large business
in the finest qualities of goods, which he supplied to all
the nobility and gentry in the country round. The boy

Owen was to have his board, lodging, and washing, no salary

the first year, £8 the second, and £10 the third, and he
tells us that from the time of entering this house he supported
himself, and never applied for or received any pecuniary aid
from his parents. Here he remained three years, and the
hours of business being comparatively short, by getting up
early he was able to read five hours a day. He also learnt
here to distinguish the different qualities of all the finest
fabrics, which was of great use to him in after-life.

     He then returned to London, and after a visit to his

family in Wales, entered a large ready-money shop on Old
London Bridge, where he had £2$ a year, but was at work
for fifteen or sixteen hours a day ; so after a year he obtained
another situation in a large shop in Manchester at a salary of
£40 a year. Here he remained till he was eighteen, and a
circumstance occurred which changed the whole course of
his life.

    A mechanic named Jones supplied the firm with wire

frames for ladies' bonnets, of which large numbers were sold.

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 93

He brought a supply weekly, and it was Owen's duty to receive

them from him, and being an intelligent man, they had some

conversation together. Jones was full of the wonderful
improvements then being made in machinery for cotton-
spinning. He had seen some of these machines at work, and

was sure he could make them and work them if he had a
little capital. At last he persuaded Owen to lend him £100

(borrowed from his brother in London), for which he was to
have half the profits of the work. Owen accordingly left

his employer after due notice, and rented a suitable machine

shop, in which about  forty men  were soon employed    making
the newly invented    " mules "  for spinning cotton.    Jones

superintended the work, and Owen kept the accounts, paid

the men, and saw that regular hours were worked, he being

the first to enter and the last to leave the workshop. The
" mules " were sold as quickly as made, and thus the small

capital was made to serve ; but Owen soon saw that Jones had
no business capacity, whereas Owen was, as he afterwards

proved, one of the greatest organizers who ever lived. He,

therefore, watched the work closely, learnt all he could about

and when an offer was made by another person with some
it,
                                               it
                                                                      aa
                                                                                  a
                                                                                           aa a
                                                                                                             a
capital to buy him out, he gladly accepted the offer which they

made him, of six of the mule machines, reel, and making-

up machine with which to pack the skeins of yarn into bundles

for sale. He, however, only received three mules with the

two other machines, and immediately hired an empty build

ing, set them up in one of the rooms, bought the cotton rovings

ready for spinning, and hired three men to work the machines.

The finished yarn was spun in hanks of one hundred and forty

yards each, the hanks made up into bundles of five pounds

weight, and wrapped neatly in paper, all which work was done

by himself, and he then sold to the agent of some Glasgow

manufacturers of British muslins, then quite new business.
In this way he found he could make clear profit of £6

week.

    A few months later he accidentally heard that wealthy

manufacturer, Mr. Drinkwater, had advertised for manager

for some new spinning-mills which he had just built and filled

94  MY LIFE                                                                                                                [Chap.

with the best machinery under the management of Mr. Lee,

a civil engineer, who had unexpectedly left him, he himself
knowing nothing of the business. Owen applied for the post,
being then barely twenty years old, and looking younger.
He asked £300 a year salary ; and after a few inquiries as to
character, seeing his little factory of three mules, and examining
his books, Mr. Drinkwater engaged him, and about a week
afterwards he was called upon to take charge of a large
factory employing about five hundred workpeople. The former
manager had left the day before, Mr. Drinkwater did not come

to introduce him, and he was simply sent there as the new
manager. His business was to purchase the raw material,

to make the machines, for the mill was not nearly completed ;

to manufacture the yarn, and to sell it ; to keep the accounts,
pay the wages, and take the whole responsibility of the first
fine cotton-spinning establishment by machinery that had ever
been erected. Hitherto his life had been spent in retail
shops, where he had learnt the qualities of various fabrics,
and how to buy and sell, but till his short experience with

Jones and with his three spinning-mules, he had never even
seen any textile machinery or learnt anything about its

construction.

      He describes how he suddenly found himself in the midst
of five hundred men, women, and children, who were busily
occupied with machinery, much of which he had scarcely seen,

and never in their regular connection so as to manufacture

from the raw cotton to the finished thread. We can well
understand his feelings, and how he said to himself, " How

came I here ? And how is it possible I can manage these
people and this business ? " His description of how he did

manage without ever showing his complete ignorance; how
he not only superintended the completion of the mill and
carried on the whole thing successfully, but in very short
time noticed imperfections in the thread, found out the defect
in the machinery or in the mode of working that led to these

imperfections, and then had these defects remedied how the
quality and selling value of the output steadily advanced; how
the organization of the whole mill was perfected, and yet the
    it,
                                                                             a

                                                                                                                        ;

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 95

workpeople were satisfied with the various new rules and

regulations he adopted ; and how, during the four years he

remained there, he continually improved the output ; how his

salary was raised by agreement to £500 a year, to be followed
the next year by his becoming a partner with one-fourth share

in the whole concern --is one of the most interesting and

remarkable incidents in modern biographical literature.
     Owing to family arrangements Mr. Drinkwater wished

Owen to withdraw from the partnership, but begged him to
remain as manager, and name his own salary. This he
declined, soon found another offer, built new mills, and

carried them on successfully for several years, till, in the year
1800, he became partner and sole manager of the New
Lanark mills, and married the daughter of Mr. Dale, the

former proprietor.
     Gradually, for many years, he had been elaborating his

theory of human nature, and longing for an opportunity
of putting his ideas in practice. And now he had got his
opportunity. He had an extensive factory and workshops, with
a village of about two thousand inhabitants all employed in
the works, which, with about two hundred acres of surrounding
land, belonged to the company. The character of the workers
at New Lanark is thus described by Mr. W. L. Sargant in
his work " Robert Owen and his Social Philosophy," when
describing the establishment of the mills about fifteen years
before Owen acquired them : " To obtain a supply of adult

labourers a village was built round the works, and the houses

were let at a low rent ; but the business was so unpopular
that few, except the bad, the unemployed, and the destitute,
would settle there. Even of such ragged labourers the numbers

were insufficient ; and these, when they had learned their

trade and become valuable, were self-willed and insubordinate."

Besides these, there were about five hundred children, chiefly
obtained from the workhouses of Edinburgh and other large
towns, who were apprenticed for seven years from the age of
six to eight, and these were lodged and boarded in a large
building erected for the purpose by the former owner, Mr.
Dale, and was well managed. But these poor children- had

96  MY LIFE  [Chaf.

to work from six in the morning to seven in the evening (with
an hour and three-quarters for meals) ; and it was only after
this task was over that instruction began. The poor children
hated their slavery ; many absconded ; some were stunted,
and even dwarfed in stature ; and when their apprenticeship
expired at the ages of thirteen to fifteen, they commonly went
off to Glasgow or Edinburgh, with no natural guardians, and
trained for swelling the mass of vice and misery in the towns.
" The condition of the families who had immigrated to the
village was also very lamentable. The people lived almost
without control in habits of vice, idleness, poverty, debt, and
destitution. Some were drunk for weeks together. Thieving
was general, and went on to a ruinous extent. . . . There was
also a considerable drawback to the comfort of the people in
the high price and bad quality of the commodities supplied in

the village."
     When Owen told his intimate friends who knew all these

facts that he hoped to reform these people by a system of

justice and kindness, and gradually to discontinue all punish
ment, they naturally laughed at him for a wild enthusiast;

yet he ultimately succeeded to such an extent that hardly any
one credited the accounts of it without personal inspection,
and its fame spread over the whole civilized world. He had,

besides the conditions already stated, two other great diffi
culties to overcome. The whole of the workers and overseers

were strongly antagonistic to him as being an Englishman,

whose speech they could hardly understand, and who, they
believed, was sent to get more money for the owners and
more work out of themselves. They, therefore, opposed all

he did by every means that ingenuity could devise, and though
he soon introduced more order and regularity in the work
and improved the quality of the yarn produced, they saw in
all this nothing but the acts of a tool of the mill-owners some

what cleverer, and therefore more to be dreaded, than those

who had preceded him. An equally fierce opposition was
made to any improvement in the condition of the houses

and streets as to dirt, ventilation, drainage, etc. He vainly
tried to assure the more intelligent of the overseers and

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 97

workmen that his object was to improve their condition, to

make them more healthy and happier and better off than
they were. This was incredible to them, and for two years
he made very little progress.

    His second great difficulty was that his partners were

business men, who expected him to carry on the works on

ordinary business principles, so as to obtain for them at least

as large returns as any other factories in the country-

Generally, he was absolute and sole manager, but he knew

that he could not make any large or extensive alterations
till he had obtained a surplus revenue beyond what was
expected. For the first two years he limited his improve

ments to the factory itself and its management, and to
endeavours, mostly in vain, to obtain the confidence of the

workers.

     One thing, however, he did for the benefit of the workers
which had some effect in disarming their enmity and sus
picions. Instead of the retail shops where inferior articles

were sold at credit for very high prices, he established
stores and shops where every article of daily consumption

was supplied at wholesale prices, adding only the cost of
management. The result was that by paying ready money

the people got far better quality at full 25 per cent. less than
before ; and the result soon became visible in their superior
dress, improved health, and in the general comfort of their

houses.

But what at length satisfied them that their manager was

really their friend was his conduct when a great temporary
scarcity of cotton and its rapid rise in price caused most of

the mills to be shut, and reduced the workers to the greatest
distress. But though Owen shut up the mills he continued
to pay every worker full wages for the whole of the four

months during which the scarcity lasted, employing them in

thoroughly cleaning the mills and machinery, repairing the
houses, etc. This cost £7000, which he paid on his own

responsibility ; but it so completely gained the confidence

of the people that he was afterwards able to carry out im
provements without serious obstruction. Being wholly

VOL. I.   H

98  MY LIFE  [Chap.

opposed to infant labour he allowed all arrangements with

the guardians to expire, built a number of better houses,
and thus obtained families of workers to take the place of

the children ; but difficulties with the partners arose, the
property was sold to a fresh set of partners, Owen being still
the largest shareholder and manager, and a few years later
again sold to Owen and a few of his personal friends, who

agreed to allow him to manage the property, and to expend

all profits above 5 per cent. for the benefit of the workers.
Among his co-shareholders were Jeremy Bentham, with Joseph

Foster and William Allen, well-known Quakers. It may be

here stated that the property was purchased of Mr. Dale for

£60,000, and was sold to Owen and his friends in 1814 for
£1 14,100. This great increase of value was due in part to
the large profits made by cotton mills generally at this period,
and partly to Owen's skilful management and judicious

expenditure.
      He was now at last able to carry out his plans for the

education of the children, none of whom he would allow to
enter the mills as workers till they were ten years old. He

built handsome and roomy schools, playrooms and lecture-

rooms for infants from two to six, and for the older children

from six to ten years old ; and he obtained the best masters
for the latter. The infant schools were superintended by

himself, and managed by teachers he himself selected for

their manifest love of children. His instructions to them
were "that they were on no account ever to beat any one of

 the children, or to threaten them in any manner in word or
 action, or to use abusive terms, but were always to speak to
 them with a pleasant countenance, and in a kind manner and
 tone of voice ; that they should tell the infants and children
 that they must on all occasions do all they could to make
 their playfellows happy ; and that the older ones, from five to
 six years of age, should take especial care of the younger
 ones, and should assist to teach them to make each other
happy." And these instructions, he assures us, were strictly
 followed by the man and woman he chose as infant-school

 master and mistress.

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 99

     No books were to be used ; but the children " were to be
taught the uses and nature or qualities of the common things
around them, by familiar conversation when the children's

curiosity was excited so as to induce them to ask questions
respecting them." The schoolrooms were furnished with
paintings of natural objects, and the children were also taught
dancing, singing, and military evolutions, which they greatly
enjoyed. The children were never kept at any one occupa
tion or amusement till they were fatigued, and were taken

much into the open air and into the surrounding country,

where they were taught something about every natural
object. Here we see all the essential features of the educa
tional systems of Pestalozzi and Frcebel, worked out by his
own observations of child-nature from his own childhood

onward, and put into practice on the first opportunity with

a completeness and success that was most remarkable.
      He tells us that his numerous visitors, latterly numbering

two thousand every year, were more amazed and delighted
with the schools than with any other part of the establish
ment ; and that during the visit of " a lady of the highest

rank of our own nobility --after inspecting the dancing,
the music, and all the other lessons and exercises out-
of-doors, of the infants and children in their playground,
while attentively witnessing their kindness of manner to each

other, their unaffected, unrestrained, joyous happiness, and

remembering their efficiency in their indoor exercises--this

lady said to me with tears in her eyes, ' Mr. Owen, I would

give any money if my children could be made like these.'
And truly those who were trained from infancy through these

 schools were by far the most attractive, and the best and
happiest human beings, I have ever seen. Their manner

 was unaffectedly graceful, and, when spoken to by strangers,
 naturally polite, with great innocent simplicity. The total
 absence of all fear, and full confidence in and affection for
 their teachers, with the never-ceasing expression of perfect

 happiness, gave these children of working cotton-spinners a

character for their age superior to any I have yet seen." It

 was also noted how this training improved the physical

IOO  MY LIFE  [Chap.

appearance of the children, and many visitors declared that
they had never seen so many beautiful girls and boys as
in the schools at New Lanark.

     The effect of his system on the adult workers was hardly
less remarkable. To stop the continued pilfering of bobbins
and other small articles used in the mills, he invented a

system (unfortunately not explained) by which the many
thousands of these articles which passed from hand to hand
daily were so recorded automatically that the loss of one by

any particular worker could be always detected. In this way

robbery, large or small, was always discovered, but no one was

ever punished for it. The certainty of discovery, however,

prevented its being attempted, and it very soon ceased alto

gether.

     Equally novel and ingenious was his method of avoiding
the necessity for punishment, or even for a word of censure,
for the many petty offences or infractions of rules that are
inevitable in every large establishment. Owen calls it " the
silent monitor," but the workers called it the " telegraph."
Each superintendent of a department had a character-book,
in which the daily conduct of every worker was set down by
marks for each of the ordinary offences, neglect of work,
swearing, etc., which when summed up gave a result in four
degrees --bad, indifferent, good, excellent. For every in
dividual there was a small wooden, four-sided tally, the sides

being coloured black, blue, yellow, and white, corresponding
to the above degrees of conduct. This tally was fixed at

each one's work-place, with the indicative colour outward, so
that as Owen or his representative passed down the shops
at any time during the day, he could note at a glance the
conduct of each one during the preceding day, and thus get
both a general and a detailed view of the behaviour of the

workers. If any one thought they were unfairly treated they

could complain to him, but in hardly any cases did this

happen. He tells us, " As I passed through all the rooms, and
the workers observed me always to look at these telegraphs --
and when black I merely looked at the person, and then at
the colour --but never said a word to one of them by way of

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 101

blame. At first," he says, "a large proportion daily were

black and blue, few yellow, and scarcely any white. Gradu

ally the blacks were changed for blue, the blues for yellow,
and the yellows for white. Soon after the adoption of this

telegraph I could at once see by the expression of counte

nance what was the colour which was shown. As there were
four colours there were four different expressions of counte

nance, most evident to me as I passed along the rooms. . . .

Never perhaps in the history of the human race has so

simple a device created in so short a period so much order,
virtue, goodness, and happiness, out of so much ignorance,
error, and misery. And for many years the permanent
daily conduct of a very large majority of those who were
employed deserved, and had, No. I placed as their character
on the books of the company."

     To show that Owen did not exaggerate the improved
condition of New Lanark, it will be well to give the estimates
of experienced and independent visitors. In 1819 the town
of Leeds sent a deputation, consisting of Mr. Edward Baines,

Mr. Robert Oastler, and Mr. John Cawood, to report on the
character and condition of the workers at New Lanark.

They spent four days in a careful inspection and examination
of the whole establishment, and the following are a few
extracts from their general report. Speaking first of the

children in the schools, from two to ten years of age, they say,
" They appear like one well-regulated family, united together
by the ties of the closest affection. We heard no quarrels

from the youngest to the eldest ; and so strongly impressed

are they with the conviction that to be happy themselves
it is necessary to make those happy by whom they are sur
rounded, that they had no strife but in offices of kindness."

     "The next class of the population in the Lanark estab
lishment consists of boys and girls between ten and seventeen
years of age. These are all employed in the mill, and in the

evening from seven to half-past eight o'clock they pursue
their education. The deportment of these young people is

very exemplary. In business they are regular and diligent,

and in their manners they are mild and engaging."

102            MY LIFE  [Chap.

    " In the adult inhabitants of New Lanark we saw much
to commend. In general they appeared clean, healthy, and
sober. Intoxication, the parent of so many vices and so

much misery, is indeed almost unknown here. The conse

...quence is that they are well clad, well fed, and their dwellings
are inviting.  In this well-regulated colony, where almost

everything is made that is wanted by either the manufactory

or its inhabitants, no cursing or swearing is anywhere to be

heard. There are no quarrelsome men or brawling women."
     Every visitor to New Lanark who published any account

of his observations seems to have agreed as to the exceptional
health, good conduct, and well-being of the entire population ;

while residents in the vicinity, as well as the ruling authorities
of the district, bore witness that vice and crime were almost
wholly unknown. And it must be remembered that this was

all effected upon the chance population found there, which

was certainly no better if no worse than the usual lowest
class of manufacturing operatives at that period. There
appears to have been not a single case of an individual or a

family being expelled for bad conduct ; so that we are com
pelled to trace the marvellous improvement that occurred
entirely to the partial application of Owen's principles of
human nature, most patiently and skilfully applied by him
self. They were necessarily only a partial application,
because a large number of the adults had not received the
education and training from infancy which was essential for
producing their full beneficial results. Again, the whole

establishment was a manufactory, the property of private

capitalists, and the adult population suffered all the dis
advantages of having to work for long hours at a monotonous
employment and at low rates of wages, circumstances wholly
antagonistic to any full and healthy and elevated existence.

Owen used always to declare that the beneficial results at

which all visitors were so much astonished were only one-

tenth part of what could and would be produced if his

principles were fully applied. If the labour of such a com

munity, or of groups of such communities, had been directed
with equal skill to produce primarily the necessaries and

VI] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 103

comforts of life for its own inhabitants, with a surplus of such

goods as they could produce most advantageously for them

selves, in order by their sale in the surrounding district to be

able to supply themselves with such native or foreign pro

ducts as they required, then each worker would have been

able to enjoy the benefits of change of occupation, always

having some alternation of outdoor as well as indoor work ;

the hours of labour might be greatly reduced, and all the

refinements of life might have been procured and enjoyed

by them.

On considering the whole course of Owen's life, the one

great error he committed was to give up the New Lanark

property and management, and spend his large fortune in

the endeavour to found communities in various countries of

chance assemblages of adults, which his own principles

should have shown him were doomed to failure. He

always maintained that a true system of education from

infancy to manhood was essential to the best formation of

character. His infant schools had only been about ten years

in existence, when, owing to some difficulties with his Quaker
partners, who had always objected to the dancing and drill,

he gave up the management into their hands.

This was a weakness due to his amiable temper, which

could not bear to be the cause of difference with his friends.

Under the circumstances he might well have refused to give

up an establishment which was wholly his own creation, and

whose splendid success was unequalled in the world. He

possessed nearly half the shares, and the profits were so large

that he could soon have paid off the remainder, and become
Ifthe sole owner.
                   they had absolutely refused to sell, he

might have sold his interest and started another community

on improved lines, to which it is almost certain the whole of

the inhabitants of New Lanark would have voluntarily

removed in order to be under his beneficent rule. He would

thus have had all the advantages of not losing the young

people he had so thoroughly trained, and might have gone on

during his life extending the establishment till it became

almost wholly self-supporting, and ultimately, when the

104  MY LIFE  [Chap.

 majority of the inhabitants had been trained from childhood
under his supervision, self-governing also. Had he done
this, his beautiful system of education, and the admirable

social organization founded on his far-seeing and funda
mentally true philosophy of human nature, might still have

existed, as a beacon-light guiding us towards a better state

of industrial organization. In that case we should not have
now found ourselves, after another century of continuous
increase of wealth and command over nature, with a

much greater mass of want and misery in our midst than
when he first so clearly showed the means of abolishing

them.

     Notwithstanding this one fatal error, an error due to the
sensitive nobility of his character and to his optimistic belief
in the power of truth to make its way against all adverse
forces, Robert Owen will ever be remembered as one of the

wisest, noblest, and most practical of philanthropists, as well
as one of the best and most lovable of men.

    I have a recollection of having once heard him give a
short address at this " Hall of Science," and that I was struck

by his tall spare figure, very lofty head, and highly benevolent
countenance and mode of speaking. Although later in life
my very scanty knowledge of his work was not sufficient to

prevent my adopting the individualist views of Herbert
Spencer and of the political economists, I have always looked
upon Owen as my first teacher in the philosophy of human
nature and my first guide through the labyrinth of social
science. He influenced my character more than I then knew,

and now that I have read his life and most of his works, I am

fully convinced that he was the greatest of social reformers
and the real founder of modern Socialism. For these reasons

I trust that my readers will not consider the space I have here

devoted to an outline of his great work at New Lanark is

more than the subject deserves.
     The preceding sketch of his life and work is founded

upon his "Life" written by himself, and accompanied by

such a mass of confirmatory reports and correspondence as
to show that it can be thoroughly relied on. It has, however,

vi] LONDON WORKERS, SECULARISTS, ETC. 105

long been out of print, and very few people have read it or

even heard of and  for this reason that have given
it,
           it
                 is

                    I

                                    J. I
this brief outline of its contents. The fine obituary notice

of Owen by his contemporary and friend, Mr. G. Holyoake,

together with the book on his life and times by his fellow-

worker, Lloyd Jones, show that have in no way exaggerated

either his character or his achievements.

                   CHAPTER VII

                         BEDFORDSHIRE : SURVEYING

It Iwas, I think, early in the summer of 1837 that went

with my brother William into Bedfordshire to begin my
education as a land-surveyor. The first work we had was
to survey the parish of Higham Gobion for the commutation

of the tithes. It was a small parish of about a thousand

acres, with the church, vicarage, and a good farmhouse on the
highest ground, and a few labourers' cottages scattered about,
but nothing that could be called a village. The whole parish
was one large farm ; the land was almost all arable and the
fields very large, so that it was a simple piece of work. We
took up our quarters at the Coach and Horses public-house
in the village of Barton-in-the-Clay, six miles north of Luton,
on the coach-road to Bedford. We were nearly a mile from
the nearest part of the parish, but it was the most convenient
place we could get.

    An intelligent young labourer was hired to draw the

chain in measuring, while I carried a flag or measuring-rod

and stuck in pegs or cut triangular holes in the grass, where
required, to form marks for future reference. We carried bill
hooks for cutting rods and pegs, as well as for clearing away
branches that obstructed the view, and for cutting gaps in
the hedges on the main lines of the survey, in order to lay
them out perfectly straight. We started work after an early
breakfast, and usually took with us a good supply of bread-
and-cheese and half a gallon of beer, and about one o'clock
sat down under the shelter of a hedge to enjoy our lunch.

                                                                                106

[Chap. VII] BEDFORDSHIRE: SURVEYING  107

My brother was a great smoker, and always had his pipe
after lunch (and often before breakfast), and, of course, the
chain-bearer smoked too. It therefore occurred to me that
I might as well learn the art, and for a few days tried a few
whiffs. Then, going a little too far, I had such a violent
attack of headache and vomiting that I was cured once and

for ever from any desire to smoke, and although I afterwards

lived for some years among Portuguese and Dutch, almost all

of whom are smokers, I never felt any inclination to try again.

     Three miles north of Barton was the small village of
Silsoe adjoining Wrest Park, the seat of Earl Cowper, whose

agent, Mr. Brown, was known to my brother, and had, I think,

obtained for him the parish survey we were engaged upon.

A young gentleman three or four years older than myself
who was, I think, a pupil of Mr. Brown's, was sent by him to

learn a little land-surveying with us, and was a pleasant com

panion for me, especially as we were often left alone, when

my brother was called away on other business, sometimes for

a week at a time. Although the country north of Barton

was rather flat and uninteresting, to the south it was very
picturesque, as it was only about half a mile from the range
of the North Downs, which, though only rising about three

hundred feet above Barton, yet were very irregular, jutting
out into fine promontories or rounded knolls with very steep
sides and with valleys running up between them. The most
charming of these valleys was the nearest to us, opening
behind the church. It was narrow, with abundance of grass
 and bushes on the sides of a rapid-flowing streamlet, which,
about a quarter of a mile further, had its source in a copious
spring gushing out from the foot of the chalk-hill. On the
west side of this valley the steep slope was thickly covered

with hazel and other bushes, as well as a good many trees,
forming a hanging wood full of wild flowers, and offering a
delightful shade in the heat of the afternoon. About a mile
to the east there was an extensive old British earthwork called

Ravensburgh Castle, beyond which was another wooded valley ;
between these was a tolerably level piece of upland where the

 villagers played cricket in the summer.

108  MY LIFE                                      [Chap.

    My friend, whose name I forget (we will call him Mr. A.),

was a small-sized but active young fellow, very good-look
ing, and quite the dandy in his dress. He was proud of his
attractions, and made friends with any of the good-looking
village girls who would talk to him. One day we met a

pretty rosy-cheeked girl about his own age --a small farmer's
daughter --and after a few words, seeing she was not dis
inclined for a chat, he walked back with her, and I went
home. When he returned, he boasted openly of having got

her to promise to meet him again, but the landlord advised

him to be careful not to let her father see him. A day or

two after, as we were passing near the place, he saw the girl

again, and I walked slowly on. I soon heard loud voices,

and, looking back, saw the girl's father, a big, formidable-
looking man, threatening the young Lothario with his stick,

and shouting out that if he caught him there again with his

girl, he would break every bone in his body. When the

young gentleman came back he was not the least abashed,

but told us the whole story very much as it had happened,
and rather glorying in his boldness in not running away from

so big and enraged a man, and intimating that he had

assuaged his anger by civil words, and had come away with

flying colours.

    One day he and I went for a walk over the hills towards

Hitchin, where on the ordnance map a small stream was

named Roaring Meg, and we wanted to see why it was so
called. We found a very steep and narrow valley something
like that called the Devil's Dyke near Brighton ; but this was
thickly wooded on both sides, and the little stream at the

bottom, rushing over a pebbly bed, produced a roaring sound
which could be heard at a considerable distance. This
northern range of downs has the advantage over the south

downs of having numerous springs and streams on both sides

of and these are especially abundant around the ancient
village of Toddington, five miles west of Barton, where the
ordnance map shows about twenty springs, the sources of
small streams, within radius of two miles.

    It was while living at Barton that obtained my first
     it,
                                         a

                                               I

vii] BEDFORDSHIRE: SURVEYING 109

information that there was such a science as geology, and

that chalk was not everywhere found under the surface, as I

had hitherto supposed. My brother, like most land-surveyors,
was something of a geologist, and he showed me the fossil
oysters of the genus Gryphaea and the Belemnites, which we

had hitherto called "thunderbolts," and several other fossils

which were abundant in the chalk and gravel around Barton.

While here I acquired the rudiments of surveying and map

ping, as well as calculating areas on the map by the rules of

trigonometry. This I found very interesting work, and it

was rendered more so by a large volume belonging to my
brother giving an account of the great Trigonometrical Survey
of England, with all the angles and the calculated lengths of
the sides of the triangles formed by the different stations on
hilltops, and by the various church spires and other con
spicuous objects. The church spires of Barton and Higham

Gobion had been thus used, and the distance between them

accurately given ; and as the line from one to the other ran
diagonally across the middle of the parish we were survey
ing, this was made our chief base-line, and the distance as

measured found to agree very closely with that given in the
survey. This volume was eagerly read by me, as it gave an
account of all the instruments used, including the great theo
dolite three feet in diameter for measuring the angles of the

larger triangles formed by distant mountain tops often twenty
or thirty miles apart, and in a few cases more than a hundred
miles ; the accurate measurement of the base-lines by steel

chains laid in wooden troughs, and carefully tightened by
exactly the same weight passing over a pulley, while the ends
were adjusted by means of microscopes ; the exact tempera
 ture being also taken by several thermometers in order to allow
for contraction or expansion of the chains ; and by all these
refinements several base-lines of seven or eight miles in length
 were measured with extreme accuracy in distant parts of the

country. These base-lines were tested by repeated measure
 ments in opposite directions, which were found to differ only
by about an inch, so that the mean of all the measurements
was probably correct to less than half that amount.

I IO  MY LIFE  [Chap.

     These bases were connected by the system of triangula-
tion already referred to, the angles at all the stations being
taken with the best available instruments and often repeated
by different observers, while allowance had also to be made
for height above the sea-level, to which all the distances had
to be reduced. In this way, starting from any one base, the
lengths of the sides of all the triangles were calculated, and
ultimately the length of the other bases ; and if there had
been absolutely no error in any of the measurements of base
lines or of angles, the length of a base obtained by calcula
tion would be the same as that by direct measurement. The

results obtained showed a quite marvellous accuracy. Start
ing from the base measured on Salisbury Plain, the length of
another base on the shore of Lough Foyle in the north of
Ireland was calculated through the whole series of triangles
connecting them, and this calculated length was found to

differ from the measured length by only five inches and a
fraction. The distance between these two base-lines is about

three hundred and sixty miles.

      These wonderfully accurate measurements and calcula
tions impressed me greatly, and with my practical work
at surveying and learning the use of that beautiful little

instrument the pocket-sextant, opened my mind to the
uses and practical applications of mathematics, of which

at school I had been taught nothing whatever, although
I had learnt some Euclid and algebra. This glimmer of
light made me want to know more, and I obtained some

of the cheap elementary books published by the Society for

the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. The first I got were
on Mechanics and on Optics, and for some years I puzzled
over these by myself, trying such simple experiments as I

could, and gradually arriving at clear conceptions of the chief

Ilaws of elementary mechanics and of optical instruments.

thus laid the foundation for that interest in physical science
and acquaintance with its general principles which have

remained with me throughout my life.

      It was here, too, that during my solitary rambles I first

vii] BEDFORDSHIRE: SURVEYING  m

began to feel the influence of nature and to wish to know

more of the various flowers, shrubs, and trees I daily met
with, but of which for the most part I did not even know the
English names. At that time I hardly realized that there

was such a science as systematic botany, that every flower

and every meanest and most insignificant weed had been
accurately described and classified, and that there was any
kind of system or order in the endless variety of plants and

animals which I knew existed. This wish to know the

names of wild plants, to be able even to speak of them, and

to learn anything that was known about them, had arisen

from a chance remark I had overheard about a year before.
A lady, who was governess in a Quaker family we knew at

Hertford, was talking to some friends in the street when I

and my father met them, and stayed a few moments to greet
them. I then heard the lady say, " We found quite a rarity
the other day -- the Monotropa ; it had not been found here

before." This I pondered over, and wondered what the
Monotropa was. All my father could tell me was that it
was a rare plant; and I thought how nice it must be to

know the names of rare plants when you found them. How

ever, as I did not even know there were books that described

 every British plant, and as my brother appeared to take no
 interest in native plants or animals, except as fossils, nothing
 came of this desire for knowledge till a few years later.

    Barton was a rather large straggling village of the old-
fashioned, self-contained type, with a variety of small trades
men and mechanics, many of whom lived in their own free

hold or leasehold houses with fair-sized gardens. Our landlord
was a young man fairly educated and intelligent. One of

his brothers was a tailor, and made such good clothes that
my brother remarked upon the excellent cut and finish of a
suit worn by our host. Their eldest brother lived in a very

good old roomy cottage in the village, and was, I think, a

wheelwright, and I was sometimes asked to tea there, and

found them very nice people, and there was a rather elderly
unmarried sister who was very talkative and satirical. Most

112  MY LIFE                                            [Chap.

of the villagers, and some of the farmers around, used to come

to the house we lived in, and among them was a painter and

glazier, who was married while I was there, and who was sub

jected to good-humoured banter when he came to the house
soon afterwards. These, with the necessary blacksmith and
carpenter, with a general shop or two and a fair number of
labourers, made up a little community, most of whom seemed

fairly well off.
     Our landlord was a Radical, and took a newspaper called

The Constitutional, which was published at Birmingham, and
contained a great deal of very interesting matter. This was

about the time when the dean and chapter refused to allow a
monument to be erected to Byron in Westminster Abbey,
which excited much indignation among his admirers. One of
these wrote some lines on the subject which struck me as being

so worthy of the occasion that I learnt them by heart, and by

constant repetition (on sleepless nights) have never forgotten
them. They were printed in the newspaper without a signa

ture, and I have never been able to learn who was the author
of them. I give them here to show the kind of poetry I
admired then and still enjoy --

     " Away with epitaph and sculptured bust !

        Leave these to decorate the mouldering dust

       Of him who needs such substitutes for fame --

       The chisel's pomp to deck a worthless name.
       Away with these ! A Byron needs them not ;

       Nature herself selects a deathless spot,
       A nation's heart : the Poet cannot die,
       His epitaph is Immortality.

       What are earth's mansions to a tomb like this ?
       When time hath swept into forgetfulness
       Wealth-blazoned halls and gorgeous cemeteries,
       The mouldering Abbey with its sculptured lies,
       His name, emblazoned in the wild, the free,
       The deep, the beautiful of earth, shall be
       A household word with millions. Dark and wild
       His song at times, his spirit was the child
       Of burning passion. Yet when he awoke

       From his dark hours of bondage, when he broke
       His cage and seized his harp, did he not make
       A peal of matchless melody and shake

vii]    BEDFORDSHIRE: SURVEYING                                113

      The very earth with joy. Still thrills the heart
      Of man at those sweet notes ; scared despots start
      To curse them from their thrones ; they pierce the cell
      And cheer the captive in his chains ; they tell
      Lessons of life to struggling liberty.

      Death mars the man but spares his memory,
      Nor tears one laurel from his wreath of fame.
      How many glorious thoughts of his we claim
      Our heritage for ever ; beacon lights

      To guide the barque of freedom through the nights
      Of tyranny and woe, when not a star
      Of hope looks down to glad the mariner :
      Thoughts which must ever haunt us, like some dream
      Of childhood which we ne'er forget, a gleam
      Of sunshine flashing o'er life's troubled stream I "

     The last eight lines of this poem form a passage charac
terized by deep feeling and poetic beauty of a high order.
My brother was an admirer of Byron, and he used to say
that his description of Satan, in the " Vision of Judgment,"
was finer than anything in Milton. This poem, which is
essentially a satirical parody of Southey's poem with the
same title, yet contains some grand passages on behalf of
political and religious liberty. The lines my brother thought

so fine (and I agree with him) are the following :--

              " But bringing up the rear of this bright host,
                 A Spirit of a different aspect waved

                 His wings, like thunder-clouds above some coast
                      Whose barren beach with frequent wrecks is paved ;

                 His brow was like the deep when tempest-tost ;
                      Fierce and unfathomable thoughts engraved

                  Eternal wrath on his immortal face,
                      And where he gazed a gloom pervaded space."

     Those who only know Byron by his more romantic or
pathetic poems, and who may think the panegyric of the

anonymous writer in The Constitutional* to be overdrawn,

should read "The Age of Bronze," which is pervaded

* This newspaper -- The Constitutional--appears to have existed only two

years. The Daily News, referring to a sale of Thackeray rarities last year, states

that he contributed several articles to that paper as Paris correspondent, and that,
in consequence, a set of the paper sold in 1899 for two hundred guineas. A

friend informs me that it does not exist in the Bodleian Library.

      VOL. I.  I

114  MY LIFE  [Chap.

throughout with the detestation of war, with admiration of

those who fought only for freedom, and with scorn and
contempt for the majority of English landlords, who subor
dinated all ideas of justice or humanity to the keeping up of

their rents. Even if it stood alone, this one poem would

justify the poet as an upholder of the rights of man and as

a truly ethical teacher.

     Returning from this digression to the villagers who came

within my range at the little tavern where we lodged, I had

an opportunity of seeing a good deal of drunkenness, inevitably

brought on by the fact that only in the public-house could
any one with enforced leisure have the opportunity of meet
ing friends and acquaintances and of hearing whatever news
was to be had. Sometimes a labourer out of work, and having
perhaps a week's wages in his pocket, would have a pint of

beer in the morning, and while waiting alone for some one to
come in, would, of course, require another to pass away the

time ; and sometimes, if a young unmarried man, he would

remain quietly drinking beer the whole day long. On one

such occasion the landlord told me that a man had consumed

twenty-two pints of beer during the day. At that time there

was no temperance party, no body of people who thought

drinking intoxicants altogether wrong ; while deliberately
aiding a man to get drunk was often a mere amusement.
My brother was a great smoker but a small drinker, and he

used to say that as he neither drank nor expectorated while

smoking it did him no harm --a view which seems very
doubtful. He was, however, accustomed to take a glass of

spirits and water in the evening, and usually kept a gallon
jar of gin in a cupboard by the fireplace, not only for his own

use, but to have something besides beer to offer any friend
who called. He had several acquaintances at Silsoe, the
architect of the mansion then being built for Earl Cowper
being an old friend of about his own age, a Mr. Clephan.

One day, I remember, a young farmer whose acquaintance

 we had made while surveying gave us a call, and my brother
 hospitably invited him to take a glass of gin, which he

vii] BEDFORDSHIRE: SURVEYING 115

accepted. He was rather a weak young man and had
already drunk a good deal of beer, and soon became talka

tive, and as my brother asked him to take more gin,
he did so, and at last he became quite incoherent and so
troublesome, though perfectly good-natured, that we had
to ask the landlord to take charge of him till he was able
to go home. But his speech and actions were so ludicrous
that all present were kept in a roar of laughter, and every
body seemed to think it an excellent and quite harmless bit
of fun.

    When I was alone at Barton I used frequently to sit in

the tap-room with the tradesmen and labourers for a little
conversation or to hear their songs or ballads, which I have
never had such an opportunity of hearing elsewhere. Some
of these were coarse, but not as a rule more so than among
men of a much higher class, while purely sentimental songs
or old ballads were very frequent, and were quite as much

appreciated. I regret that I did not write down all that I
heard here, but at that time I did not know that there would
be any purpose in doing so, and I cannot remember the

actual words of any of them. One that was occasionally
sung was the old Masonic Hymn, beginning --

        I" Come all you freemasons that dwell around the globe,

              That wear the badge of innocence, mean the royal robe,
              Which Noah he did wear when in the ark he stood,
             When the world was destroyed by a deluging flood "--

but I think it was never sung in its complete form. The

well-known poacher's song with its musical refrain --

     " Oh ! 'tis my delight of a shiny night, in the season of the year,"

was also rather a favourite ; but there was one ballad about

Bonaparte which was often called for, but of which I can
remember nothing but a line beginning --

                           " Then upspoke young Napoleon."

It was a really good ballad, describing some incidents in

Napoleon's early life, and was remarkable as treating him

I16  MY LIFE  [Chap.

from quite a heroic point of view, so different from the
enormous mass of gross and stupid caricature and abuse
which prevailed during the epoch of his military successes

throughout Europe.

     As there was no work of importance after the maps and
reference books of the parish we had been surveying were
completed and delivered, and winter was approaching, I went

home for a short holiday. My father and mother and my

younger brother were then living in Hoddesdon, and as there

was no direct conveyance I made the journey on foot. It was,

I think, the end of November, and as the distance was about
thirty miles, and I was not very strong, I took two days,

sleeping on the way at a roadside public-house. I went

through Hitchin and Stevenage, and near the former place
passed a quarry of a reddish chalk almost as hard as marble,

which was used for building. This surprised me, as I had

hitherto only seen the soft varieties of chalk, and had been
accustomed to look upon it as more earth than stone. The
only other thing that greatly interested me was a little

beyond Stevenage, where, on a grassy strip by the roadside,

were six ancient barrows or tumuli, which I carefully inspected ;
and whenever I have since travelled by the Great Northern
Railway, I have looked out for these six tumuli, near to which

the line passes.

    Where I slept the night I forget, but its results were long

remembered, for I was given a bed which I presume had
been occupied by some tramp, and I found that I had

brought away with me two different kinds of body-lice, one
of which took me a long time and the application of special
ointments to get rid of. This was the only time in my life

Ithat suffered from these noisome insects.

     After a few weeks at home at Hoddesdon, I went back to
Barton, where we had some work till after Christmas. On
New Year's Day, 1838, the first section of the London and

Birmingham Railway was opened to Tring, and I and my

brother took advantage of it to go up to London, where he

VII] BEDFORDSHIRE: SURVEYING  117

had some business. We stayed at a quiet hotel in Lamb's

Conduit Street, and the next day I walked to Hoddesdon for
a short holiday. My brother while in London obtained the

survey for tithe commutation of a parish in Bedfordshire,

where I was to meet him on the 14th or 15th of January,

at the village of Turvey, eight miles beyond Bedford.

                 CHAPTER VIII

                 BEDFORDSHIRE : TURVEY

I HAD first to go back to Barton to pay a few bills and pack

up the books, instruments, etc., we had left there to be sent

by carrier's waggon. I therefore left home on the 12th, and
I think walked back to Barton, and the next day did what

was required, took leave of my friends there, and on the

morning of the 14th, after an early breakfast, started to walk

to Turvey through Bedford, a distance of about twenty miles.

    The reason I am able, without any diary, note, or letter

to refer to, to fix the date of this particular walk is rather a

curious one. While I was at home, or shortly before, a new

almanack had appeared, which professed to predict the

weather on every day of the year, on scientific principles, and
Ithe first week was said to be wonderfully correct.
                                                       was so

much interested in this, and talked so much about that
                                                       it,
                                                                a
my mother procured for me just before left home asI it

New Year's present. It was called "Murphy's Weather

Almanack," and was published, think, at shilling. The
first three days were marked " Fair, frost," and the next three
" Change." This was, believe, nearly correct, but how near
                             I

                                          aI

cannot remember. The next fortnight, however, impressed
I

             it
itself upon my memory, partly because had the book and
                                  I

marked day by day, and partly on account of the remark

able weather and its exact fulfilment. From the 7th to the
                             as "Fair, frost," and so
13th every day was set down                            it   was.
Then came the 14th, marked   " Change " then again
                                  ;                      " Fair,

frost," every day to the 20th, which was marked " Lowest

                             118

[Chap. VIII] BEDFORDSHIRE: TURVEY  119

temperature;" after which the indications were change,
followed by rain.

     Now, as the 14th was the day of my walk to Bedford and

Turvey, I was rather anxious, and when I got up in the
Imorning and saw that the sky was clear, thought the
almanack was wrong, and was glad of it ; but as soon as I
began my journey I found the air milder and the roads

decidedly softer than the day before, and this soon increased,
till by midday there was a regular thaw, which made the

roads quite soft, but as there had been no snow not disagree

ably wet. I had, therefore, a very pleasant walk. I dined at

Bedford, and reached Turvey before dark.

    For the next six days we were at work laying out the

main lines for the survey of the parish, cutting hedges,

ranging flags, ascertaining boundaries, and beginning the
actual measurements, and every day the frost continued
exactly as predicted by Murphy, culminating in the greatest
cold on the 20th, after which there was a break.

    I may here state that the rest of the year was very in

accurate, though there were certain striking coincidences.

The hottest day was nearly, or quite, correct. In August

nine days consecutively were exactly as predicted, and in

December the very mild weather and fine Christmas Day was

correct.

     But the perfect accuracy of the fourteen consecutive days
with the break on one day of an otherwise continuous frost,

and that day being fixed on my memory by the circumstance
of my having then to walk twenty miles, forced me to the

conclusion that there must have been " something in it "--

that this could not have been attained by pure guess-work,
 even once in a year, and though the most striking, it was not

by any means the only success. My copy of the almanack
 disappeared half a century ago, but wishing to refresh my
 memory of the circumstances, and to fix definitely the year and

day of my journey, I applied to the Meteorological Society

 to lend me the almanack if they possessed it. They very

 courteously obliged me, sending me the five years, 1838 to 1842,

all that ever appeared, bound together. I then found that my

120               MY LIFE                                                         [Chac

memory of the weather for a week before and after my walk

had been quite correct and as I have stated here, and I also

had the advantage of examining the succeeding years, with

notes of the actual weather in a considerable proportion of

the days entered in a space left for the purpose by the owner

of this copy. The place of observation, however, is not given,

and it is obvious that, as the weather is usually very different

in widely separated parts of the country, only those features

of it can have any chance of being predicted which are

common to the greater part of our island, and are persistent for

a considerable period. Looking over these records from this

point of view, I find the following points worthy of notice :--

     In 1839 the lowest winter temperature was predicted for

January 9, and this was correct.

     In 1840 sixteen days of frost were predicted in February ;
eleven of these are noted, and all are on the right days. In

March only seven days' rain were predicted, and it is noted as

a very dry month throughout. April was predicted to be a

mild and fine month, and it was so, though the days of rain,

etc., did not agree. In May the prediction was two days rain,

thirteen days changeable, the rest fair. Rain was noted

on nine days, the rest being fine and mild. June was about
equally correct. In the winter frost was predicted for the last

two weeks of the year, which was correct.
    In 1 84 1 March was predicted to be a fine, dry, and mild

month, which was correct. There was nothing very marked

in the rest of the year.
    In 1842 frost was predicted for several days at the end of

January and the first week in February, which was correct.
April was foretold to have only four days' rain, and the

remark of the observer " A very dry month." May was to
     a
                  is,
                             is,

                                                                  it
                                                                              is
have five days rainy and three changeable, and                                    noted as

having had "rain on nine days," and as being "a very fine

month." In August rain was announced for six days only,
                  " Splendid August weather." Then at the
and the remark

end came great failure, for the last half of December was
predicted to be fine and frosty, but turned out to be " very

mild and rainy."

VIII] BEDFORDSHIRE: TURVEY                                   121

Thus ended the "Weather Almanack," and I am not

aware whether the writer ever disclosed the exact method by
which he arrived at his predictions. In each of the issues he

had a somewhat lengthy introduction, the first of which

purported to explain the principles of his system. But it
was so exceedingly general and vague that it seemed more

intended to conceal than to explain. It appears to me almost

certain that the author must have had access to some old

weather records for a long succession of years, and finding

that very similar weather occurred at each recurring lunar

cycle of nineteen years, he simply predicted day by day what
the weather had been nineteen years before. This method has

been recently applied by means of a longer cycle, which leads

to a more accurate correspondence of the positions of the sun

Ifand moon, and has been said to produce very striking results.
    that was really his method, his successes, though very partial,

were yet, I think, sufficient to prove that the larger and more

lasting phases of the weather in our latitudes are to a con

siderable extent dependent on the relative positions of the

moon and sun, and that the moon really      is,as has been so

long and so generally believed, one of the factors in deterI

mining our very excentric weather phenomena.

Another curious little personal incident connected with

this winter's frost may here be noted. One day was out on

the frozen meadows across the river Ouse, assisting in marking

out one of our main lines which had to cross the windings of

the river, when saw pleasant-looking young man coming
a

                 I

                                        aa
towards me carrying double-barrelled gun. When he was

few yards off, two very large birds, looking like wild geese,

came flying towards us, and as they passed overhead at       a

moderate height, he threw up his gun, fired both barrels, and

brought them both to the ground. Of course went up to
                                            a

                                                         aI
look at them, and found they were fine pair of wild swans,

the male being about five feet long from beak to end of tail.
"That was a good shot," remarked; to which he replied,
" Oh you can't miss them, they are as big as barn door."
!

       I
                          I
Afterwards  found that this was young Mr. Higgins, of

122  MY LIFE                                    [Chap.

Turvey Abbey, his father being one of the principal land

owners in the parish ; and in making out the reference books
which give the owners of all the separate farms, etc., we found

that he himself owned some property, and that his name was

H. H. Higgins. This interested me, because one of my
schoolfellow's initials had been H. H. H., his name being
Henry Holman Hogsflesh, and I thought it curious that

I should so soon again come across another H. H. H., and
this made me remember the name of Mr. Higgins, which I

might otherwise have totally forgotten.

    More than half a century later (in November, 1889), I

was invited to Liverpool to give some lectures, and some

time before the date fixed upon I received a very kind letter

from the Rev. H. H. Higgins inviting me to dine with him

on my arrival, and offering to assist me in every way he

could. I declined the invitation, but told him what hotel I
was going to, and said that I should be glad to see him.
His letter recalled to me my acquaintance at Turvey, but I

did not see how a Liverpool clergyman could have any close

relationship to a wealthy Bedfordshire landowner. I found

Mr. Higgins at the station with a carriage ready, and he told

me that, as I did not wish to go out to dinner, he and some

friends had taken the liberty of ordering a dinner at my
hotel, and hoped I would dine with them. He was as
pleasant as an old friend, and of course I accepted. He

was a short, rubicund, exceedingly good-humoured and

benevolent-looking man, apparently some years older than
myself, and looking very like what young Mr. Higgins of
Turvey might have grown into. He somehow reminded me

of Chaucer's description of a priest --

     " A little round, fat, oily man of God
      Was one I chiefly marked among the fry,
      He had a rogueish twinkle in his eye" --

except that he could hardly be described as round, or fat,

but simply "jolly" in person as in manner. So when

his friends left about an hour after dinner, I asked him,

if he had no engagement, to stay a little longer, as I

viii] BEDFORDSHIRE: TURVEY                                                 123

wished to find out the mystery. He was an enthusiastic

naturalist, and we talked of many things, and the conversa

tion turning on the land question, he remarked that he

was perhaps one of the poorest landowners in Eng

land, for that he was heir to a considerable landed estate

from which he never received anything, and probably never

should, owing to family circumstances, which he stated. I

then asked him if he knew a place called Turvey, in Bed
fordshire, to which he replied, " I ought to know for was
                                              it,

                                                   I
                                                        I
born there, and my father owned the estate there to which

am heir."      then felt pretty sure of my man, and asked him
           I

                 a
I if  he remembered, during very hard frost about fifty years
    ago, shooting pair of wild swans at Turvey. " Why, of courseaa
      do," said he. " But how do you know     " " Because
                                        '

                                          is ? '
                                                " it

                                                        !?

                                                        I
                                                                 II
was there at the time and saw you shoot them. Do not you

remember thin tall lad who came up to you and said,
           aa
'   That was good shot,' and you replied, Oh you can't miss

them, they are as big as barn door "          No," he said, "

    don't remember you at all, but that just what should

have said." His delight was great, for his story of how he

shot the two wild swans was not credited even by his own

family, and he made me promise to go to his house after the

lecture on the next night, and prove to them that he had

not been romancing. And when            went, was duly intro
                               a

                                        aI
                                                  I

                                                          I
duced to his grown-up sons and daughters as one who had

been present at the shooting of the swans, which had been

the first to mention. That was proud moment for the
Rev. H. H. Higgins, and very pleasant one to myself.

         Let us now return to Turvey and my experiences there.
    We lived at the chief inn in the place--perhaps the only
    one except some small beer-shops --called The Tinker of

    Turvey. The painted sign was man with staff, a woman,
                                   a
                                                            a
                                                                     is
                                                                        a
    and dog, and we were told in the village that the tinker
a
        a

                            a
    meant was John Bunyan. But recent inquiry by friend
    both in Bedford and at Turvey shows that this perhaps

      mistake. In little book, " Turvey and the Mordaunts," by

    G. F. W. Munby, Rector of Turvey, and Thomas Wright

    (of Olney), we are told that there  is    very rare pamphlet in
                                           a

124  MY LIFE                                                                [Chap.

the British Museum, entitled, " The Tincker of Turvey, his
merry pastime from Billingsgate to Gravesend. The Barge
being freighted with mirth, and mann'd with Trotter the

tincker, Yerker a cobbler, Thumper a smith, and other merry
fellows, every one of them telling his tale " (dated, London,
1630, 4to). There is a verse on the signboard as follows :--

     " The Tinker of Turvey, his dog, and his staff,
        Old Nell with her Budget will make a man laugh."

This may, perhaps, be taken from the old pamphlet,
which certainly proves that " The Tinker of Turvey " was a

character known before Bunyan's time, and as the tales told
by the tinker and his companions are said to be exceedingly
coarse, they were probably well known in country places,
and the name would seem appropriate for an inn in the

village named. It is possible, however, that the sign may

have been first painted at a later date, and as Bunyan would
no doubt have been well known at Turvey, as at other villages
round Bedford, where he was accustomed to preach, he may
have been represented or caricatured as the Tinker of Turvey
on the signboard.

     In this inn we had the use of a large room on the ground-

floor, also used as a dining-room for the rare visitors requiring

that meal, and in the evening as a farmers' room, where two

or three often dropped in for an hour or two, while once a

week there was a regular farmers' club, at which from half a

dozen to a dozen usually attended. While at Barton I had

become well acquainted with the labourers, mechanics, and

small village shopkeepers ; I here had an equal opportunity

of observing how well-to-do farmers occupied their leisure.

These seemed to be rather a serious class, whose conversation

was slow, and devoted mainly to their own business, especially
as to the condition of their sheep, how their " tegs " were getting
on, or of a fat sheep being cast--that
     h
                                                                       is,

                                                                     if
                                        turned over on its

back, and vainly struggling to get up again, when, not seen

and elped, they sometimes died. Most of the time was spent

in silent smoking or sipping their glasses of ale or of spirits

vni] BEDFORDSHIRE: TURVEY                                             125

and water. Sometimes the talk would be of hunting, or even

of the county races when any one was present ,vho had horses

good enough to run. On one evening I heard an agricultural

problem solved by an expert, and it is the only piece of

definite information I ever heard given on these occasions.
A young farmer was complaining of the poor crop of wheat

he had got from one of his best fields, and said he could not

make   it out. One         of the  large farmers, who   was looked    up
to as  an authority,               " What did you do    to the field    "
" Well," said              asked,       I" ploughed it "
ploughed it                                                           ?
                                        said the expert,        pause) ; " I
               the young man,                             ("a
                                                               that's where
               twice." "Ahl"

you lost your crop." The rest looked approval. Some said,
"              ; " others         " Ah   "
   That's  it              said,            The young  man said  nothing,
                                        !

but looked gloomy. Evidently the oracle had spoken, and

nothing more was to be said ; but I have often wondered

since if that really was the cause of the bad crop of wheat.

There seem to be so many other things to be taken account
of--the kind of seed used ; the mode of sowing, whether

broadcast or drilled ; the quantity and kind of manure used ;
the condition of the soil as regards moisture, freedom from
weeds, and many other matters ;--all, one would think, equally

important with the mere difference between one or two

ploughings. I should have liked to have asked about this
at the time, but I was too shy and afraid of exposing my

ignorance.

   The farmers here were very proud of their mutton, and

one with whom we were especially friendly told us one day

about a fine sheep he had killed the previous year --five years
old, I think he said --and that he had kept one of the legs of

mutton six months in his cellar, which was large and very

cool. He assured us that it was perfectly sweet, and that he

invited several of his friends to dinner, and they all agreed

that they had never eaten such fine mutton in their lives.

At the time I hardly believed this, holding the usual opinion

that meat necessarily putrefied, but I have no doubt now that

he was speaking the truth, and that much of our meat would
be greatly improved in quality if we had suitable places in

which to store it for a few weeks or months before cooking.

126  MY LIFE  [Chap.

     Soon after we came to Turvey a young gentleman from

Bedford came to us to learn a little surveying. He was, I

think, the son of an auctioneer or estate agent, and was about
eighteen or twenty years old. As my brother was occasion

ally away for several days at a time when we sometimes had
nothing to go on with, he would amuse himself fishing, of

which he was very fond. Sometimes I went with him, but I

usually preferred walking about the country, though I cannot

remember that I had at this time any special interest in

doing so. He often caught some large coarse fish, such as

bream or pike, which were the commonest fish in the river,
but were hardly worth eating. Towards the latter part of

our survey in the spring months, my brother left us a portion
of the work to do by ourselves when he was away for a week

or two, and as we worked very hard, and seldom got home
before six in the evening, we had an unusually good appetite

for our evening meal, and sometimes astonished our hosts.

One occasion of this kind I have never forgotten. They had
provided for our dinner a sparerib of young pork --a very
delicate dish but not very substantial --with potatoes. My

friend first cut the joint in half, about three or four ribs in

each, and said to me, " I know you like fat ; if I cut off this
lean piece, will you have the rest?" I joyfully assented, as
I was very fond of the picking on the bones. We soon

finished our portions, and then he cut the lean off the rest of
the joint, gave me the ribs, and we very soon left nothing but

the clean-picked bones, half of which I put on his plate so
that it might not be thought that I had eaten the whole

joint myself. The servant looked astonished at the empty
dish when she brought us in a rather small apple-pudding.
This was cut in two, and was hardly as much as we should

have liked ; and when the servant saw another empty dish
she smiled, and told us that some people had been waiting
for the rest of the pork and pudding, and now had nothing

for dinner ; at which we smiled, and asked for bread-and-

cheese to finish with.

     When at home and spending the larger part of every day

in the schoolroom, I had never liked fat, which often made

VIII] BEDFORDSHIRE: TURVEY  127

me ill. But exercise for about ten hours every day in the
open air had improved my digestion and my general health

Iso that could eat most kinds of fat, and have been very fond

of it during my whole life.
     During our stay here we made the acquaintance of some

pleasant people, and on Sundays we were often asked out

to tea, which I should have enjoyed more than I did had it

not been for my excessive shyness, which was at this time

aggravated by the fact that I was growing very rapidly, and

my clothes, besides being rather shabby, were somewhat too
small for me. Another drawback was that our residence at

any place was too short to become really at home with these

passing friends. I was therefore left mostly to the companion
ship of our own temporary pupil, and he, like the majority
of the young men I met at this period of my life, was by no

 means an edifying acquaintance. Sporting newspapers, which

 were then far grosser than they are now, were, so far as I

 remember, his chief reading, and he had a stock of songs and

 recitations of the lowest and most vicious type, with which he

 used occasionally to entertain me and any chance acquaint

 ances. There was one paper which I used very frequently to
 see about this time, and which I think must have been taken
 at most of the country inns we frequented. It was called, if

 I remember rightly, The Satirist, and was full of the very

 grossest anecdotes of well-known public characters, trials for
 the most disgraceful offences reported in all their details, and
 full accounts of prize-fights, which were then very common.

 It was a paper of a character totally unknown now, and as it

 no doubt reflected the ideas and pandered to the tastes of
 a very considerable portion of the public in all classes of
 society, it is not very surprising that most of the young men
  of the middle classes that came across my path should have

  been rather disreputable in conversation, though, perhaps, not

  always so in character.

     But, notwithstanding that I was continually thrown into
 such society from the time I left school, I do not think it

  produced the least bad effect upon my character or habits
  in after-life. This was partly owing to natural disposition,

128  MY LIFE  [Chap. VIII]

which was reflective and imaginative, but more perhaps to

the quiet and order of my home, where I never heard a rude

word or an offensive expression. The effect of this was
intensified by my extreme shyness, which made it impossible
for me to use words or discuss subjects which were altogether

foreign to my home-life, as a result of which I have never
been able to use an oath, although I have frequently felt

those impulses and passions which in many people can only

find adequate expression in such language. This, I think, is

a rather striking example of the effects of home influence
during childhood, and of that kind of education on which
Robert Owen depended for the general improvement of

character and habits.

                CHAPTER IX

       BEDFORDSHIRE : SILSOE AND LEIGHTON BUZZARD

Itfor  was some time in May or June   of 1838 that we left Turvey
        Silsoe, where my brother had
                                      some temporary work. I
walked there, starting very early -- I think about four or five

in the morning ; and a few miles from the village a fine fox
jumped over a bank into the road a few yards in front of me,

trotted quietly over, and disappeared into a field or copse on

the other side. Never before or since have I seen a wild fox
so near or had such a good view of one. I breakfasted at

Bedford, and then walked to Silsoe.

       This very small village is an appanage of Wrest Park, the

seat of Earl de Grey, and is about halfway between Luton

and Bedford. It consisted of a large inn with a considerable

posting business, a few small houses, cottages, and one or two

shops, and, like most such villages, it is no larger to-day than

it was then. We boarded at the inn kept by a Mr. Carter,

whose wife and two daughters, nice well-educated people,

took an active part in the management. At this time it was

very full of visitors in consequence of the work of building a

fine new mansion then in progress and nearing completion.

The architect and his clerk of the works were usually
there, as was Mr. Brown, a nephew of the agent, and the

lively young gentleman, Mr. A., who had been with us at

Barton. Besides these, there were others who came for

short periods, among whom I particularly remember a grave

middle-aged man in black, whose conversation with my

brother showed literary tastes and good education, which

       VOL. I.  129                   K

130 MY LIFE                                            [Chap.

caused me to be much surprised when I learned that he was

there solely to make the working drawings for the handrails

of the principal staircase, and to superintend their proper

execution. I remember hearing this gentleman speaking in

praise of James Silk Buckingham as one of the most remark
able men and prolific writers of the day. Some six years

later, I think, I heard a lecture in London by J. S. Buckingham

on some of his travels, and the impression made upon me

then was, and still
       a               that he was the best lecturer ever
                is,                                    I
heard, the most fluent and interesting speaker.          I

Our work here was mainly copying maps or making

surveys connected with the estate, and for this purpose we

had the use of small empty house nearly opposite the inn,

where large drawing-table and few chairs and stools were
aa                     a

all the furniture we required. Here we used sometimes to

sit of summer's evening with one or two friends for privacy

and quiet conversation, Mr. Clephan, the architect, and his
clerk being our most frequent companions. My brother

supplied them with gin-and-water and pipes, and sat by

reading book or listening to their discourse. Sometimes
    a

they would tell each other stories of odd incidents they had

met with, or discuss problems in philosophy, science, or

politics. When jovially inclined, the architect's clerk would

sing songs, many of which were of such an outrageously

gross character that my brother would beg him to be more

cautious so as not to injure the morals of youth. At one

time, when Mr. Clephan was away, there was fire at farm
                                                 a     a
quite near us which burnt some stacks and outbuildings,
                                                   it          it
and caused considerable excitement in the village. We

only heard of early in the morning when the local fire-
a
engine had at length succeeded in puttingit            out. My

brother wrote an account of this to Mr. Clephan, with

humorous descriptions of the sayings and doings of the chief

village characters, and, in reference to what we saw when

was nearly all over, he said, " It could best be described

in well-known line from the Latin grammar, Monstrum,'

horrendum, informe, ingens cui lumen ademptum,' which

might be freely rendered, 'a horrid shapeless mass whose

IX] SILSOE AND LEIGHTON BUZZARD 131

glim the engines dowse.' " He used to show me any letters
he thought might interest me, and this "free translation"
took my schoolboy fancy so that it has stuck in my memory.

      One day, having to drive over to Dunstable on some

business, my brother took me with him. When there, we

walked out to a deep cutting through the chalk about a mile

to the north-west, where the road was being improved by
further excavation to make the ascent easier. This was

the great mail-coach road to Birmingham and Holyhead, and
although the railway from London to Birmingham was then
making and partly finished, nobody seemed to imagine that
in twelve years more a railway would be opened the whole

distance, and, so far as the mails and all through traffic were
concerned, all such costly improvement of the high-roads would

be quite unnecessary.

     My brother had some conversation with the engineer who
was inspecting the work, and took a lump of chalk home with

him to ascertain its specific gravity, as to which there was
some difference of opinion. While taking luncheon at the
hotel we met a gentleman of about my brother's age, who
turned out to be a surveyor, and who was also interested in

engineering and science generally ; and after luncheon they
borrowed a small pair of scales and a large jug of water, and
by suspending the chalk by a thread below the scale-pan,
they weighed it in water, having first weighed it dry in
the ordinary way, and the weight in air, divided by the

difference between the weights in air and water, gives

the specific gravity sufficiently near for ordinary purposes.
This little experiment interested me greatly, and made me
wish to know something about mechanics and physics. Mr.
Matthews lived at Leighton Buzzard, where he carried on
the business of watch-and-clock maker as well as that of
engineer and surveyor. He had undertaken the survey of
the parish of Soulbury, but having too much other work to
attend to, he was looking out for some one to take it off his
hands. This matter was soon agreed upon, and a few weeks

afterwards we left Silsoe to begin the work.
     The village of Soulbury is a very small one, though the

132  MY LIFE  [Chap.

parish is rather large. It is only three miles from Leighton,

and we obtained accommodation in the school-house, a rather
large red-brick house, situated at the further end of the

village, where three roads met. It was occupied only by the

schoolmaster and his sister, who kept house for him, so we
had the advantage of a little society in a rather lonely
place. They were both young people and fairly educated,

but, as I thought even then, rather commonplace. The chief

business of the village girls hereabouts was straw-plaiting,
which they did sitting at their cottage doors, or walking
about in the garden or in the lanes near, which therefore did

not interfere with their getting fresh air and healthy exercise,
as do all forms of factory work. Now, owing to cheap im
ported plait, the only work is in hat and bonnet-sewing,
which involves indoor work, and is therefore less healthy as

a constant occupation.
     The district was rather an interesting one. The parish

was crossed about its centre by the small river Ouzel, a
tributary of the Ouse, bordered by flat verdant meadows,

beyond which the ground rose on both sides into low hills,

which to the north-east reached five hundred feet above the
sea, and being of a sand formation, were covered with heaths
and woods of fir trees. Parallel with the river was the Grand

Junction Canal, which at that time carried all the heavy
goods from the manufacturing districts of the Midlands to
London. Following the same general direction, but about
half a mile west on higher ground, the London and Bir
mingham Railway was in course of construction, a good deal
of the earthwork being completed, most of the bridges built
or building, and the whole country enlivened by the work

going on.

    At the same time the canal had been improved at great

cost to enable it to carry the increased trade that had been
caused by the rapid growth of London and the prosperity
of agriculture during the early portion of the nineteenth
century. About thirty miles further on the watershed
between the river-basins of the Ouse and Severn had to be

crossed, a district of small rainfall and scanty streams, from

IX] SILSOE AND LEIGHTON BUZZARD 133

which the whole supply of the canal, both for its locks as well

as for evaporation and leakage, had to be drawn. Whenever
there was a deficiency of water here to float the barges and
fill the locks, traffic was checked till the canal filled again ;
and this had become so serious that, for a considerable portion
of the canal, it had been found necessary to erect steam-
engines to pump up the water at every lock from the lower

to the higher level. Sometimes there were two, three, or
more locks close together, and in these cases a more powerful

engine was erected to pump the water the greater height.

Up to this time I had never seen a steam-engine, and there

fore took the greatest interest in examining these both at rest
and at work. They had been all erected by the celebrated
firm of Boulton and Watt, and were all of the low-pressure

type then in use, with large cylinders, overhead beam, and
parallel motion, but each one having its special features, the
purport of which was explained to me by my brother, and
gave me my first insight into some of the more important
applications of the sciences of mechanics and physics.

     Of course at that time nobody foresaw the rapid develop
ment of railways all over the country, or imagined that they

could ever compete with canals in carrying heavy goods.
 Yet within two years after the completion of the line to Bir
mingham, the traffic of the canal had decreased to 1,000,000
tons, while it was 1,100,000 tons in 1837. Afterwards it
began slowly to rise again, and had reached 1,627,000 tons

in 1900, an exceedingly small increase as compared with

that of the railway. And this increase is wholly due to local

traffic between places adjacent to the canal.

     In the northern part of the parish, which extended nearly
to the village of Great Brickhill, were some curious dry
valleys with flat bottoms, and sides clothed with fir woods,

a kind of country I had not yet seen, and which impressed

me as showing some connection between the geological for
mation of the country and its physical features, though it was
many years later when, by reading Lyell's " Principles of

Geology," I first understood why it should be so. Another

interesting feature of the place, which no one then saw the

134  MY LIFE  [Chap.

significance of, was a large mass of hard conglomerate rock,
or pudding-stone, which lay in the centre of the spot where
the three roads met in front of the house where we lodged.

It was roughly about a yard in diameter and about the same

height, and had probably at some remote period determined
the position of the village and the meeting-point of the three
roads. Being a kind of rock quite different from any found
in that part of England, it was probably associated with some
legend in early time, but it is in all probability a relic of the

ice-age, and was brought by the glacier or ice-sheet that at
one time extended over all midland England as far as the
Thames valley. But at this time not a single British geologist

knew anything about a glacial epoch, it being two years later,
in 1840, when Louis Agassiz showed Dr. Buckland such
striking indications of ice-action in Scotland as to convince
him of the reality of such a development of glaciers in our

own country at a very recent period.

     When we had completed our field-work, we moved into
Leighton Buzzard, and lodged in the house of a tin-and-
copper-smith in the middle of the town, where we completed
the mapping and other work of the survey. Our landlord
was a little active man with black hair and eyes and dark
complexion. He told us that whenever his trade was slack

he could make small tin mugs at a penny each and earn a

fair living, as there was an inexhaustible demand for them.
He was a very intelligent man, and he made the same
objection to the success of the railway that had been made by
many mechanics and engineers before him. This was, that
the hold of the engine on the rails would not be sufficient to

draw heavy trucks or carriages --that, in fact, the wheels would
whizz round instead of going on, as they do sometimes now
when starting a heavy train on greasy rails. He and others
did not allow sufficiently for the weight of modern engines,

which gives such pressure on the wheels as to produce ample
friction or adhesion between iron and iron, though apparently
smooth and slippery. This question used to be discussed in

 the old Mechanics' Magazine, and it was again and again

IX] SILSOE AND LEIGHTON BUZZARD 135

declared that, however powerful engines were made, they
would be unable to draw very heavy loads on account of the
want of adhesion ; and all kinds of suggestions were made to
remedy this supposed difficulty, such as sprinkling sand in
front of the wheels, making the tyres rough like files, etc., all
of which were found to be quite unnecessary, owing to the
apparently unforeseen fact that as engines became more

powerful they became heavier.
     On the heath about a mile and a half north of Leighton

there was a tumulus, and I was very anxious to know if there

was anybody or thing buried under it. The whitesmith was
 equally interested, and he agreed to go with me some morning
 very early when we should not be likely to be interfered with.
 So we started one morning about five, with a couple of
spades, and began digging straight down in the middle of the

tumulus. It was light sandy soil, easy to move, and we dug

a good large hole till we got down about five feet deep, which
 was the height of the barrow, and then, having found nothing
whatever for our trouble, we filled the hole up again, laid on
 the turf, and got back to breakfast, very tired, but glad to
 have done even though we had found nothing.
a
   it,

                        a

                         I
                                          iIf

                                                                     it
Having finished our plans of Soulbury, and made the

three copies needed with their books of reference, with some
other odd work, my brother took me up to London on

Christmas Eve, travelling by coach to Berkhampstead, and
thence on to London by the railway, which had been just
opened. We went third class for economy, in open trucks

identical with modern goods trucks, except that they had

hinged doors, but with no seats whatever, so that any one

tired of standing must sit upon the floor. Luckily was

mild weather, and the train did not go more than fifteen or

twenty miles an hour, yet even at that pace the wind was
very disagreeable. The next day we went home to Hoddes-

don for holiday. It had been settled that, as no more

surveying work was in view, should go back to Leighton

to Mr. Matthews for few months to see  should like

to learn the watch and clock-making business as well as

136  MY LIFE  [Chap.

surveying and general engineering ; and as there seemed to

Ibe nothing else available did so.

      Mr. William Matthews was a man of about thirty. He
 had been married two years, and had a little girl under a

 year old. Both he and Mrs. Matthews were pleasant people,

and I felt that I should be comfortable with them. He

 had been partly educated under Mr. Bevan, a civil engineer
 of some reputation, who had made experiments on the
 strength of materials, the holding power of glue and nails,
 etc., and had invented an improved slide-rule. My brother
 had one of these rules, which we found very useful in

 testing the areas of fields, which at that time we obtained by

 calculating the triangles into which each field was divided.

 To check these calculations we used the slide-rule, which at
 once showed if there were any error of importance in the

result. This interested me, and I became expert in its use,

 and it also led me to the comprehension of the nature of
 logarithms, and of their use in various calculations. Mr.
 Matthews had also charge of the town gas-works, which
involved some knowledge of practical chemistry, and a good

deal of mechanical work. I spent about nine months in his

house, and during that time learnt to take an ordinary watch
to pieces, clean it properly, and put it together again, and the

same with a clock ; to do small repairs to jewellery ; and to

make some attempts at engraving initials on silver. I also

saw the general routine of gas manufacture ; but hardly any

surveying, which was the work I liked best. I was, therefore,

very glad when circumstances, not connected with myself,
put an end to the arrangement. Mr. Matthews received the
offer of a partnership on very favourable terms in an old-estab
lished wholesale watchmaking firm in the city of London.

Although he would have much preferred the more varied
interests of a country life, he could not give up the certainty
of a good income with prospect of increase, and thus be able

to provide for his wife and family. Fortunately, about the
same time my brother had engaged to go to Kington, in

Herefordshire, to assist the Messrs. Sayce, with whom he had

IX] SILSOE AND LEIGHTON BUZZARD 137

been articled, and who had a large business in the surround

 ing districts.

    A younger brother of Mr. Matthews, who was an amateur

chemist, was to take over the management of the gas-works,
and this led to a thorough overhauling of the whole plant,

including the mains and street lamps, so that everything

should be handed over in good working order ; and though I
had generally to mind the shop while the master was away, I

heard every detail discussed in the evening, and sometimes

went out with them after closing hours, to examine some
street lamp or house connection that showed indication of a
leak or water stoppage. Before quitting this episode in my

early life, I may just note that in after years we became almost
neighbours, first in North-West London, and afterwards at

Godalming, and kept up a neighbourly friendship for many

years. A son, William Matthews, jun., was brought up to

watchmaking, with the prospect of succeeding his father as
head of the London firm ; but the business was distasteful to
him, and when he came of age he entered the office of a
building surveyor. But the strain of London life, and an
insatiable love of work when work was to be had, under
mined his health, and he died in middle age. Mr. Matthews
himself was also an example of an intelligent man with con
siderable ability entirely lost in the narrow round of a small

old-fashioned city business, which absorbed all his energies,
and, combined with a habit of excessive snuff-taking, affected

both his mental faculties and his physical health. I am,

therefore, thankful that circumstances allowed me to continue

in the more varied, more interesting, and more healthy
occupation of a land-surveyor.

     This may be considered the first of several turning-points
of my life, at which, by circumstances beyond my own con

trol, I have been insensibly directed into the course best

adapted to develop my special mental and physical activities.

It was the death at this particular period of the senior partner

in the city watchmaking firm, and his having offered to Mr.
Matthews the opportunity of being his successor on exceed
ingly advantageous terms, that prevented me from becoming

138  MY LIFE  [Chap.

a mechanical tradesman in a country town, by which my life

would almost certainly have been shortened and my mental

development stunted by the monotony of my occupation. If
I had completed the year with Mr. Matthews, I should have

been formally apprenticed to him ; and if he had gone into
the City business afterwards, I should either have been passed

over to his successor at Leighton, or my training would have
been completed in London. This latter, though perhaps
better financially, would have been far worse for me mentally
and physically, since this wholesale business was the most

monotonous and mechanical possible, as I learned some years

afterwards when I visited the London office. To my

surprise I then found that the business, which brought in a

clear profit of about £1200 a year, had no factory, no
machinery, no sign of watchmaking except in a very small
room behind the office, where a single workman examined
and tested the various portions of the watches as they were
brought in by the outside piece-workers, the whole business
being thus carried on in two small rooms in Bunhill Row.
The movements of the watches dealt in were purchased in

Coventry, where the various kinds in general use were

designed, the separate parts cast, machine-cut, and filed to
their proper gauges, and put together. The mainsprings
and balance-springs, chains, hands, dials, and cases were
usually purchased separately ; and for each class of watch a
fitter was employed, whose business it was to put the parts
together, find out any small defects, and correct them by
hand, while any larger defect in any particular part was
sent back to the workman or manufacturer responsible for it.
The man at the office made a final examination of the com

pleted watches, tested their performance, corrected any minute
defect that was discoverable, and finally, in consultation with
one of the firm, determined the grade or quality of the watch
and the consequent price. What I should have learnt there

would have been how to fit a watch together, how to test
it for definite defects, how to judge of the design and work

manship, how to keep accounts, pay the workmen, and pro

bably to act as a traveller for the firm. But even if my health

IX] SILSOE AND LEIGHTON BUZZARD 139

would have stood the office-work I should never have suc
ceeded as a man of business, for which I am not fitted by
nature. I rather think that this particular firm was the last

which carried on business in so old-fashioned a way, as the
good-will was, I believe, sold some thirty years later, when
Mr. Matthews retired. My short experience as a shopboy
and watchmaker, and the association with a man of Mr.
Matthews's extensive knowledge in certain departments of

mechanics and engineering, no doubt helped in the all-round
development of my character, although I did not learn any

thing of much practical use in my after-life.

                      CHAPTER X

                       KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE

In the autumn of 1839 my brother came to Leighton to take

me away, and in a day or two we started for Herefordshire,
going by the recently opened railroad to Birmingham, where
we visited an old friend of my brother's, a schoolmaster,

whose name I forget, and who I remember showed us with

some pride how his school was warmed by hot-water pipes,
then somewhat unusual. We then went on by coach through
Worcester to Kington, a small town of about two thousand
inhabitants, only two miles from the boundary of Radnor

shire. It is pleasantly situated in a hilly country, and has a
small stream flowing through it. Just beyond the county

boundary, on the road to Old and New Radnor, there is an
isolated craggy hill called the Stanner Rocks, which, being
a very hard kind of basalt very good for road-metal, was

being continually cut away for that purpose. It was covered

with scrubby wood, and was the most picturesque object in
the immediately surrounding country.

     We obtained board and lodging at the house of a gun-
maker, Mr. Samuel Wright, a jolly little man, who reminded
me of the portrait of the immortal Mr. Pickwick, and who, on
account of his rotundity, was commonly known in the town as
Alderman Wright. Mrs. Wright was, on the contrary, very thin
and angular. They were equally different in their characters ;
he was very slow of speech, but very fond of telling stories of his
early life, usually very commonplace, and told in such a way as
to be dreadfully wearisome. After every few words he would

                                                                     140

[Chap. X] KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE                                     141

stop, to let them sink in, then utter a few more with another
stop, and all mixed up with so many " says I's " and " says
he's," and " that's to say's," and little digressions about other

people, that it was usually impossible to make out what he

was driving at. Mrs. Wright, on the other hand, was a great

and rather voluble talker, and she would often interpose with,
" Now, Samiwell, you don't tell that right," and, of course,

that would only lengthen out the story. She was a very

active woman, a great scrubber and cleaner, and unusually

fond of fresh air ; but these good qualities were sometimes

inconvenient, as we all sat in a small room behind the shop,

which had three or four doors in which we usually found
           a
               a
                                                        it,
open, and had to shut every time we came in. There was,

in fact, such constant draught in this room that jokingly
                                                             it I
suggested  small windmill being put up, which might be

used to grind coffee, but she always said that was the

warmest room in the house. Mr. Wright also seemed to

enjoy fresh air and water to an unusual degree in those days,      a
for early every morning, winter and summer, he would come
down undressed into his little back yard, and there pour cold
water all over his body, then scrub himself with rough
towel, put on his underclothing, and return upstairs to finish

his toilet. But Mrs. Wright was an excellent cook, and

gave us very good meals, and the alderman was very good-
natured, let me look on while he cleaned and repaired guns,
and once, when went with some friends to shoot young
rooks, he lent me an excellent double-barrelled gun for the
;

         I
occasion and these good qualities made up for the little
eccentricities of both of them, who, though so different in

some respects, were evidently very attached to each other,
and never quarrelled. Mrs. Wright used to be fond of saying

how dreadful would be Samiwell should die first after
           it
                            if

they had lived together so many years.
     Our employers, two brothers, were also well-contrasted

characters. The elder, Mr. Morris Sayce, was rather tall,
                                                             a

grey-haired man of serious aspect and rather silent and unI
communicative manner. He, believe, devoted himself
chiefly to valuations and estate agency. The younger partner,

142  MY LIFE  [Chap.

Mr. William Sayce, was a small, active, dark-haired man,
rather talkative and fond of a joke, and as he attended to the
surveying business, we saw most of him, and found him a
pleasant superior. Both were married and had families of
grown-up sons and daughters. They were very hospitable,

and we were several times invited to dine or to evening
parties at their houses, where we met some of the chief people

in the town.

     The offices were situated in a small house in a rather

narrow street, the ground-floor being occupied by the partners'
private office and a clerk's room, while a large room above

was the chief map-drawing room, containing a large table
ten or twelve feet long by five or six wide, used for mounting

drawing-paper on canvas for large maps, with some smaller
tables and desks, while other rooms were used chiefly for

writing or store-rooms. There were a good many employees
besides ourselves. The chief draughtsman and head of the
office in the absence of the principals, was named Stephen

Pugh, a thorough Welshman in appearance and speech, and
a very pleasant and good-natured man, rather fond of poetry
and general literature. The next marked character was a
rather tall Irishman, a surveyor, who had the unconscious
humour of his race, and was besides looked upon as somewhat

of a philosopher. One evening, I remember, after work was

over at the office, he undertook to give us an address on
Human Nature or some such subject, which consisted of a
rather prosy exposition of the ideas of Aristotle and the

mediaeval schoolmen on human physiology, without the least
conception of the science of the subject at the time he was
speaking. There were also a copying clerk, and two or three
articled pupils, one or two about my own age, who helped to

keep the office lively. In a solitary letter, accidentally pre
served, written at this time to my earliest friend, George Silk,
I find the following passage which well expresses the pleasure

I felt in getting back to land-surveying :--
   " I think you would like land-surveying, about half in

doors and half outdoors work. It is delightful on a fine

summer's day to be (literally) cutting all over the country,

X] KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE 143

following the chain and admiring the beauties of nature,
breathing the fresh and pure air on the hills, or in the noontide
heat enjoying our luncheon of bread-and-cheese in a pleasant
valley by the side of a rippling brook. Sometimes, indeed, it
is not quite so pleasant on a cold winter's day to find yourself
on the top of a bare hill, not a house within a mile, and
the wind and sleet chilling you to the bone. But it is all
made up for in the evening ; and those who are in the house
all day can have no idea of the pleasure there is in sitting
down to a good dinner and feeling hungry enough to eat plates,
dishes, and all."

     Although he was at least ten years older than myself,
Stephen Pugh was my most congenial friend in the office.
When I was away surveying, and for a year or two after we

had left Kington altogether, he and I used to correspond, and

often wrote rhymed letters, which were, of course, very poor

doggerel. I have, however, always kept in my memory a

portion of one of Pugh's letters, partly perhaps on account of

its extravagant flattery of my attempts at verse, though I
always knew that I had no poetic faculty whatever. The

letter began by describing what each one in the office was
doing just as work was over one evening, with characteristic

»·····remarks on the idiosyncrasy of each ; it then went on --
                 " The board was covered o'er with canvas white,
                     And looked Llyn Glwdy on a moonlight night,

                     When to my hand there came what could be better
                     Than your poetic, wise, and humorous letter.
                     Like that good angel mentioned by Saint John
                     Who ope'd seven seals, I quickly opened one,
                     And glancing o'er the page found to my joy
                        Spontaneous poetry without alloy.
                   The youth, cried I, who built this lofty rhyme
                   Will be remembered to the end of time,
                     And countless generations yet unborn
                   Will read his verse upon a summer's morn,
                     And think of him in that peculiar way
                     We think of Byron in the present day," etc.

    Some time during the winter I went alone to correct an

old map of the parish of New Radnor. This required no

144     MY LIFE                                     [Chap.

regular surveying, but only the insertion of any new roads,

buildings, or divisions of fields, and taking out any that had
been cleared away. As these changes are not numerous and

the new fences were almost always straight lines, it was easy

to mark on the map the two ends of such fences by measur

ing from the nearest fixed point with a ten or fifteen-link

measuring-rod, and then drawing them in upon the plan.

Sometimes the direction was checked by taking an angle

with the pocket sextant at one or both ends, where one of
these could not be seen from the other. As the whole plan

was far too large to be taken into the field, tracings were

made of portions about half a mile square, which were

mounted on stiff paper or linen, and folded up in a loose
cover for easy reference. In this way a whole parish of

several thousand acres could be examined and corrected in

a week or two, especially in a country like Wales, where,

from a few elevated points, large tracts could be distinctly

seen spread out below, and any difference from the old map

be easily detected. I liked this kind of work very much,
as I have always been partial to a certain amount of solitude,

and am especially fond of rambling over a country new

to me.

     New Radnor, though formerly a town of some importance,

was then, and I believe is still, a mere village, and a poor one,
Presteign being the county town. It is situated on the

southern border of Radnor Forest, a tract of bare mountains

about twenty square miles in extent, the highest point being

a little over two thousand feet above the sea. Over a good
deal of this country I wandered for about a week, and enjoyed
my work very much. One day, when I had a little time to
spare, I went a mile or two out of my way to see a rather
                                                    I de
celebrated waterfall, called Water-break-its-neck.

scended into the valley and walked down as knew the fall
                                 it,

                                     I

                                                         a

                                                   I
was on one side of in small lateral valley, but owing to
        it
                 a

                     I
the glare of the afternoon sun,    did not see the opening
                                 to the end of the valley.
in the shadow, and came down     turned back as fast as

But determined to see
I       it             so
               it,
could, and soon found just out of sight, owing to curve

X]               KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE                                    145

of the lateral valley. It must be a fine fall when the stream is

full, as it then probably shoots out clear of the rock. But

Iwhen saw it there was only a film of water covering the

surface of the rock from top to bottom. This surface is

formed by the regular weathering of slaty beds in fine layers ;

the upper part curves downward but the lower half is very

nearly or quite vertical and of considerable width, and the

whole fall, as seen from near the foot of  perhaps sixty
                                         is
                                            it,
                                               is

                                                    it
feet high. In the valley above this fall another somewhat

more irregular, but had not time to see this, as was getting
                   I
                            I
dark when turned homewards.
               ;I
               The little inn at which stayed was very quiet and com

fortable. The landlord and his wife were both quiet and

refined-looking people, not the least like the ordinary type

of innkeepers. In the evening sat with them in a parlour
                               aI
where friends and superior class of visitors only were
                   a
admitted and while      was there the district exciseman
                     I

lodged in the house while making his rounds among the

surrounding villages. He was brisk and intelligent man,

and was in no way treated as an enemy, but rather as                        aa

confidential friend. One evening when he and the host with

               myself were alone together, something brought up the names

of Heloise and Abelard, whereupon the exciseman told us

the whole story of these unfortunate lovers in way that
                    I
showed he was well acquainted with their correspondence,I

from which he quoted some of the more interesting passages,a
                                                                         a
apparently verbatim, and with sympathetic intonation. This
                                                               L
               the only occasion on which have heard the subject dealt
is
with in conversation, or, in fact, any similar subject in
    I
village inn and between landlord and exciseman.
              L
                   Early the next year, think about February, my brother
               and went to do some surveying at Rhaidr-Gwy (now
               more commonly called Rhayader), small town in Radnor
               shire on the Upper Wye, and only fifteen miles from its

               source in the Plynlymmon range. A young man from

               Carmarthenshire came to us here to learn surveying. He

                    VOL.

146  MY LIFE  [Chap.

was one of the very loose young men with whom I was often
associated, and I think as regards the filthiness of his lan

guage and of the stories with which he used frequently to
regale us he surpassed all. However, he was in other respects
a pleasant companion, being quite unconscious that his con

versation was not appreciated, and to him I probably owe
my life. One day, I think on a Sunday afternoon, we were

walking together up a rocky and boggy valley which ex
tended some miles to the west of the town. As we were
strolling alone, picking our way among the rocks and bog,

I inadvertently stepped upon one of those small bog eye

holes which abound in such places, and are very dangerous,
being often deep enough to swallow up a man, or even a

Ihorse. One leg went in suddenly up to the hip, and

fell down, but fortunately with my other leg stretched out

Iupon the surface. I was, however, in such a position that

could not rise, and had I been alone my efforts to extricate

myself might easily have drawn my whole body into the

bog, as I could feel no bottom to it. But my companion

easily pulled me out, and we walked home, and thought

little of it. It had, however, been a hard frost for some time,

Iand the mud was ice-cold, and after a few days developed

a bad cough with loss of appetite and weakness. The local
doctor, John Henry Heaton by name, was a friend of ours,

and he gave me some medicine, but it did no good, and I got

worse and worse, with no special pain, but with a disgust of

food, and for more than a week I ate nothing but perhaps a

small biscuit each day soaked in tea without milk, though

always before and since I greatly disliked tea without milk.
At length the doctor got frightened, and told my brother

that he could do nothing for me, and that he could not be
answerable for my life. He added that he knew but one
man who could save me, a former teacher of his, Dr. Ramage,
who was the only man who could cure serious lung disease,

though he was considered a quack by his fellow practitioners.

    As I got no better, a few days later we started for London,
I think sleeping at Birmingham on the way. On going to

Dr. Ramage, who tested my lungs, etc., he told my brother

X]      KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE           147

that he was just in time, for that in a week more he could

probably not have saved me, as I had an extensive abscess

of the lungs. His treatment was very simple but most effec

tive, and was the forerunner of that rational treatment by

which it is now known that most lung diseases are curable.

He ordered me to go home to Hoddesdon immediately, to

apply half a dozen leeches to my chest at a place he marked

with ink, and to take a bitter medicine he prescribed to give

me an appetite ; but these were only preliminaries. The

essential thing was the use of a small bone breathing-tube,

which he told us where to buy, and which I was to use three

Itimes a day for as many minutes as I could without fatigue ;

that was to eat and drink anything I fancied, be kept
warm, but when the weather was mild sit out-of-doors. I

was to come back to him in a week

   The effect of his treatment was immediate. I at once
began to eat, and though I could not breathe through the
tube for more than a minute at first, I was soon enabled to

increase it to three and then to five minutes. It was con

structed with a valve so that the air entered freely, but passed

out slowly so that it was kept in the lungs for a few seconds

at each inspiration. When I paid my second visit to Dr.
Ramage, he told me that I was getting on well, and need not
come to him again, that I was to continue using the breath

ing-tube for five minutes three or four times a day. He also

strongly advised me, now I saw the effect of deep and regular

breathing, to practise breathing in the same way without the

tube, and especially to do so when at leisure, when lying

down, or leaning back in an easy-chair, and to be sure to fill
my lungs well and breathe out slowly. " The natural food
Ifof the lungs," he said, "is fresh air.
                                          people knew this, and

acted upon there would be no consumption, no lung dis
        I
                   it,                    have practised all
ease."  have never forgotten this.  I
                                          I
                                                      I

                                                               it
                                                                    I
my life (at intervals), and do so still, and am sure that
owe my life to Dr. Ramage's treatment and advice.

    In about two months was well again, and went back to
Kington, and after little office-work my brother and went
                        a

                             I

148  MY LIFE  [Chap.

to the little village of Llanbister, near the middle of Radnor
shire, the nearest towns being Builth, in Breconshire, and

Newtown, in Montgomeryshire, both more than twelve miles

distant. This was a very large parish, being fifteen miles
long, but I think we could only have corrected the old map
or we should have been longer there than we really were.

Here, also, we had a young gentleman with us for a month
or two to practise surveying. He was, I think, a Welshman,

and a pleasant and tolerably respectable young man, but he

had one dreadful habit --excessive smoking. I have never
met a person so much a slave to the habit, and even if I had

had any inclination to try it again after my first failure, his

example would have cured me.
     He prided himself on being a kind of champion smoker,

and assured us that he had once, for a wager, smoked a good-

sized china teapot full of tobacco through the spout. He
smoked several pipes of very strong tobacco during the day,

beginning directly after breakfast, and any idle moments
were occupied by smoking. The village being an excessively
small one, and the population of the parish very scattered,

there was only one public-house, where we were living, and
the landlady went every week to market to lay in a stock of

necessaries, including tobacco. One market day our friend

found himself without tobacco, and on asking for some, was
told there was none till the mistress came home in the even

ing. He was in despair ; went to the only little village shop,
but they did not keep it ; to the two or three houses in the

village, but none was to be found. He was the picture of
misery all day ; he could eat no dinner ; he wandered about,

saliva dropping from his mouth, and looking as if he were

insane. The tobacco did not come till about seven in the
evening. His relief was great and instantaneous, and after a

pipe he was able to eat some supper. Had the tobacco not

come he declared he would have died, and I believe he would

have had a serious illness. This terrible slavery to the
smoking habit gave the final blow to my disinclination to
tobacco, which has been rendered more easy to me by my
generally good appetite and my thorough enjoyment of

X]  KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE                                               149

appetizing food and drinks. Of the latter, I took beer and

wine in moderation during the first fifty years of my life,
after which period I became practically a total abstainer for

special hygienic reasons ; and my own experience and observa
tion has led me to the conclusion that alcoholic drinks, taken

constantly, are especially injurious in old age and shorten the

lives of many persons.

    It was during this early period of my life that, on two

occasions only, I exceeded the limits of moderation, and

both were due to my youthful shyness and dislike of appear
ing singular in society. One of these was at a dinner at Mr.

Sayce's, where the wine-drinking was especially prolonged,

and when at last we left the table, I felt my head dizzy and

my steps a little uncertain. The other was at Rhayader at a
time when my brother was away, and Dr. Heaton and another

friend were dining at the inn together with myself. At

dinner the doctor ordered a bottle of port wine and filled my

glass with the others. After dinner, the bottle being emptied,
 the doctor said, " One bottle is a very small allowance for
 three. Let's have another." Of course, the friend agreed, and

 I said nothing, and was too shy to make an excuse and leave
 the table. Of this bottle I tried, weakly, to refuse any share,

 but the doctor insisted on giving me half a glass each round ;

 and when this bottle was empty, he ordered another, saying,
 " That's only one each," and I was compelled to have some

 of that too, but I drank as little as I could, and again felt

very dizzy and uncomfortable. Before going the doctor said
to the waiter, " We've had three bottles of port ; charge one

to each of us." Of course, I dare not say a word ; and when

our bill came in, and my brother saw the bottle of port wine

charged which he had not ordered, he asked for an explana

tion, and when I told him the circumstances, he evidently
thought I had done very wrong, but said nothing more about

   knowing, perhaps, the difficulties of shy lad in the society
of men. This little circumstance, perhaps more than any
I it,
                                                                       a
    thing else, led to my never again taking more wine than

    felt inclined to take, and that was usually two or three

    glasses only.

150  MY LIFE  [Chap.

     Before we left Llanbister my cousin, Percy Wilson, who

was preparing for ordination after taking his degree at

Oxford, came to stay a short time with us, and partly to see
again the estate of Abbey-Cwm-Hir, which his father had
purchased in the days of his prosperity and which was only

Ia few miles distant, being, in fact, an adjoining parish.

and he walked over to see it one day, and found it to be

situated in a lonely wild valley bounded by lofty and rather

picturesque mountains. It was a small country house built

by my uncle, partly from the heaped-up ruins of the ancient
Cistercian monastery, the lower portion of the church still
remaining, the walls having the remains of clustered columns

attached to them. It would have made a charming summer

residence in a few years, when the shrubs and trees had

grown, and the whole surroundings had been somewhat
modified by judicious planting, especially as Mr. Wilson

had purchased, I believe, the entire estate, comprising the

greater part of the parish, and including the whole valley
and its surrounding mountains.

     Two pencil sketches by my brother, made in a surveyor's

field-book while at this place, have been preserved and are
here copied, as examples of his delicacy of touch and
power of giving artistic effect to the simplest objects. The
upper one is the village taken from the house we lodged in,
showing the low church at the end of the street, and the queer
little house just opposite us, occupied then by the village shoe
maker, but showing some architectural pretensions as com
pared with the usual cottages in a small Welsh village. The
lower one is a small and lonely chapel in a remote part of the
parish, to which the local builder has given character, while

the dreary surroundings are well indicated in the sketch.

     When we had finished at Llanbister, we went about ten

miles south to a piece of work that was new to me --the
making of a survey and plans for the enclosure of common
lands. This was at Llandrindod Wells, where there was
then a large extent of moor and mountain surrounded by

scattered cottages with their gardens and small fields, which,

         L LAN B I STE R, RADNORSHIRE.
{Pencil sketch by W. G. Wallace. 1840.)

             " A LONELY CHAPEl."  1840.:
{Pencil sketch by W. G. Wallace.

[To face p. 150, Vol.


X]  KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE                                     151

with their rights of common, enabled the occupants to keep

a horse, cow, or a few sheep, and thus make a living. All

this was now to be taken away from them, and the whole

of this open land divided among the landowners of the

parish or manor in proportion to the size or value of their
estates. To those that had much, much was to be given,

while from the poor their rights were taken away ; for
though nominally those that oivned a little land had some

compensation, it was so small as to be of no use to them in

comparison with the grazing rights they before possessed.

In the case of all cottagers who were tenants or leaseholders,

it was simple robbery, as they had no compensation whatever,

and were left wholly dependent on farmers for employment.
And this was all done--as similar enclosures are almost
              --inunidtserpfraelsaembprlee,ten"cWesh. ereTahse  " General Inclosure
always done                                                     it is expedient to

Act " states

facilitate the inclosure and improvement of commons and

other lands now subject to the rights of property which

obstruct cultivation and the productive employment of labour,

be it enacted," etc. But in hundreds of cases, when the

commons, heaths, and mountains have been partitioned out

among the landowners, the land remains as little cultivated

as before. It is either thrown into adjacent farms as rough

pasture at a nominal rent, or is used for game-coverts, and

often continues in this waste and unproductive state for half

a century or more, till any portions of it are required for

railroads, or for building upon, when a price equal to that of

the best land in the district is often demanded and obtained.

I know of thousands of acres in many parts of the south of
England to which these remarks will apply, and if this is not
obtaining land under false pretences --a legalized robbery of

the poor for the aggrandisement of the rich, who were the

law-makers --words have no meaning.
    In this particular case the same course has been pursued.

While writing these pages a friend was staying at Llandrindod

for his wife's health, and I took the opportunity of asking him

what was the present condition of the land more than sixty

years after its inclosure. He informs me that, by inquiries

152  MY LIFE  [Chap.

among old inhabitants, he finds that at the time nothing
whatever was done except to enclose the portions allotted
to each landlord with turf banks or other rough fencing ; and
that to this day almost all the great boggy moor, with the

mountain slopes and summits, have not been improved in any
way, either by draining, cultivation, or planting, but is still
wild, rough pasture. But about thirty years after the in-

closure the railway from Shrewsbury through South Wales
passed through the place, and immediately afterwards a few
villas and boarding-houses were built, and some of the enclosed
land was sold at building prices. This has gone on year by

year, and though the resident population is still only about
2000, it is said that 10,000 visitors (more or less) come every
summer, and the chief increase of houses has been for their
accommodation. My friend tells me that, except close to the

village and railway, the whole country which was enclosed --
many hundreds of acres -- is still bare and uncultivated, with
hardly any animals to be seen upon it. Milk is scanty and

poor, and the only butter is Cornish or Australian, so that
the inclosure has not led to the supply of the simplest
agricultural needs of the population. Even the piece of
common that was reserved for the use of the inhabitants

is now used for golf-links !
      Here, then, as in so many other cases, the express purpose

for which alone the legislature permitted the inclosure has
not been fulfilled, and in equity the whole of the land, and the
whole money proceeds of the sale of such portions as have
been built upon, should revert to the public. The prices now

realized by this almost worthless land, agriculturally, are enor

mous. In or near the village it sells for £1 500 an acre, or even
more, while quite outside these limits it is from .£300 to £400.
All this value is the creation of the community, and it has

only been diverted to the pockets of private persons by false

pretences. And to carry out this cruel robbery, how many of

the poor have suffered ? how many families have been reduced
from comfort to penury, or have been forced to emigrate to
the overcrowded towns and cities, while the old have been

driven to the workhouse, have become law-created paupers ?

X] KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE 153

    In regard to this fundamental question of land ownership
people are so blinded by custom and by the fact that it is
sanctioned by the law, that it may be well for a moment to

set these entirely on one side, and consider what would have

been the proper, the equitable, and the most beneficial mode
of dealing with our common and waste lands at the time of

the last general Inclosure Act in the early years of the reign
of Queen Victoria. Considering, then, that these unenclosed
wastes were the last remnant of our country's land over which
we, the public, had any opportunity of free passage to breathe
pure air and enjoy the beauties of nature ; considering that

these wastes, although almost worthless agriculturally, were
of especial value to the poor of the parishes or manors in
which they were situated, not only giving them pasture for
 their few domestic animals, but in some cases peat for fuel
and loppings of trees for fences or garden sticks ; considering
that an acre or two of such land, when enclosed and cultivated,
 would give them, in return for the labour of themselves and

 their families during spare hours, a considerable portion of

 their subsistence, would enable them to create a home from
 which they could not be ejected by the will of any landlord
 or employer, and would thus raise them at once to a con
 dition of comparative independence and security, abolishing
 the terrible spectre of the workhouse for their old age, which
 now haunts the peasant or labourer throughout life, and is
 the fundamental cause of that exodus to the towns about

 which so much nonsense is talked ; considering, further, that
 just in proportion as men rise in the social scale, these various
 uses of the waste lands become less and less vitally important,
 till, when we arrive at the country squire and great landowner,
 the only use of the enclosed common or moor is either to be
 used as a breeding ground for game, or to add to some of his

 farms a few acres of land at an almost nominal rent--con

 sidering all these circumstances, and further, that those who

 perform what is fundamentally the most important and the
 most beneficial of all work, the production of food, should
 be able to obtain at least the necessaries of life by that

  work, and secure a comfortable old age by their own fireside

                  MY LIFE                                                     [Chap.

--how would any lover of his country think that such landsit   aa
ought to be dealt with in the best interests of the wholeit        is,

community ?                                                               it  a

     Surely, that the very first thing to be done should be to

provide that all workers upon the land, either directly or in
directly, should have plots of from one to five acres, in pro
portion to the amount of such waste and the needs of the
inhabitants. The land thus allotted to be held by them in
perpetuity, from the local authority, at a low rent such as any

farmer would give for it as an addition to his farm. In
cases where the amount of common land was very great in
proportion to the population, some of the most suitable land

might be reserved for a common pasture, for wood or fuel,

or for recreation, and the remainder allotted to applicants
from adjacent parishes where there was no common land.

    If it is asked, how are the various landowners and owners

of manorial rights to be compensated ? there are two answers,
either of which is sufficient. The first that they would be
fully compensated by the increased well-being of the com
munity around them. Whenever such secure holdings have
been given by private owners--as in the cases of Lord Tolle-
mache and Lord Carrington --pauperism has been abolished,
and even poverty of any kind greatly diminished. And as

landlords pay rates, and diminished rates mean increased
value of farm land, and, therefore, increased rents, the land

 lords would be more than compensated even in money's
worth. Again, where has been fairly tried, the surrounding
large farmers, though at first violently opposed to such small

holdings on the ground that they would make the labourers

too independent, ultimately acknowledge that greatly benefits

them, because surrounds them with permanent population

of good and experienced labourers, who are always ready at
hay and harvest time to work for good wages, and thus save
crops and secure them in the best condition when they might
otherwise be deteriorated by delay, or totally lost for want of

labour at the critical moment during wet summer. Such
constant supply of labour benefits every farmer, abolishes

 to large extent agricultural depression, and thus secures
a

X]       KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE                            155

payment of the landlord's rents -- again increasing the money

value of his property.

    And        notwithstanding these demonstrated benefits,
         if,
                                                      a
landlords still claim their pound of flesh, the money value of

public land, which only laws made by their own class have

given them, we will make our counterclaim for the land-

tax at 4s. in the pound, "on the full annual value," as

solemnly agreed by Parliament when the various services

due from landlords to the crown were abolished and the tax

fixed at what was then considered very low rate, in lieu of

them. The last valuation made was in 1692, and, notwith

standing the continual increase in land values from that time,

as well as the continual decrease in the purchasing power of

money, the land-tax continued to be paid on that absurdly

low valuation, which in the reign of George III. was made

permanent. The arrears of land-tax now equitably due will

amount to more than the value of all the agricultural land

of our country at the present time, and as when public rights

are in question there no time limit, existing landlords
                        it is
would do well not to be too clamorous for their alleged
rights of property, since may turn out that those " rights "

do not exist.

    Another thing that should be attended to in all such

inclosures of waste land the preservation for the people at
                        is
                              it
large of rights of way over in various directions, both to

afford ample means of enjoying the beauties of nature and

also to given pedestrians short cuts to villages, hamlets, or

railway stations. One of the greatest blessings that might be

easily attained the land were resumed by the people to be
               if

held for the common good, would be the establishment of

ample footpaths along every railway in the kingdom, with

sufficient bridges or subways for safe crossing and also ;
(and more especially) along the banks of every river or

brook, such paths to be diverted around any dwelling-house

that may have gardens extending to the water's edge, all such

paths to be made and kept in repair by the District Councils.
Under the present system old paths are often closed, but we

never hear of new ones being made, yet such are now more

MY LIFE  [Chaf.

than ever necessary when most of our roads are rendered

dangerous by motor-cars and cycles, and exceedingly dis-
agreeeble and unhealthy to pedestrians by the clouds of
gritty dust continually raised by these vehicles.

     Returning now to the question of the rights of the people

at large to a share in their native land, I would further point

out that the inclosure of commons is only one of many acts
of robbery that have been perpetrated by or for the landlords.

If we go back no further than the reign of Henry VIII. we

have the whole vast properties of the abbeys and monasteries

confiscated by the king, and mostly given away to personal

friends or powerful nobles, without any regard whatever to
the rights of the poor. Most of these institutions took the
place of our colleges, schools, and workhouses. The poor
were relieved by them, and they served as a refuge for the
wanderer and the fugitive. No provision was made for the
fulfilment of these duties by the new owners, and the poor
and needy were thus plundered and oppressed. Under the

same king and his successors all the accumulated wealth of
the parish churches, in gold and silver vessels, in costly
vestments often adorned with jewels, in paintings by great

masters, and in illuminated missals which were often priceless

works of art, were systematically plundered, court favourites
obtaining orders to sequestrate all such " popish ornaments,"
in a certain number of cases keeping the produce for them

selves, while in others they were sold for the king's benefit.

The property thus stolen the Rev. A. Jessopp estimates to
have been many times greater than the value of all the

abbeys and monasteries of the kingdom !

    If we consider the nature of this long series of acts of

plunder of the people's land and other property, we find in

it every circumstance tending to aggravate the crime. It was
robbery of the poor by the rich. It was robbery of the weak
and helpless by the strong. And it had this worst feature

that distinguishes robbery from mere confiscation -- the plunder
was divided among the robbers themselves. Yet again, it
was a form of robbery specially forbidden by the religion of
the robbers-- a religion for which they professed the deepest

X]       KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE                                                     157

reverence and of which they considered themselves the special

defenders. They read in what they called TJie Word of
God, "Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay

field to field, till there be no place, that they may be placed
alone in the midst of the earth ! " Yet this is what they were,

and are, constantly striving for, not by purchase only, but by
open or secret robbery. Again, they read in their holy

book, "The land shall not be sold for ever: for the land is
Mine ; " and at every fiftieth year all land was to return to

the family that had sold so that no one could keep land
beyond the year of jubilee, the reason being that no man or
                       it,

                                                                                  ;
family should be permanently impoverished by the misdeeds

of his ancestors. But this part of the law they never obey.
     This all-embracing system of land-robbery, for which

nothing  too great and nothing too small which has
         is
absorbed meadow and forest, moor and mountain, which has
                    ;
appropriated most of our rivers and lakes and the fish that

live in them which often claims the very seashore and

rocky coasts of our island home, fencing them off from the

wayfarer who seeks the solace of their health-giving air and

wild beauty, while making the peasant pay for his seaweed

manure and the fisherman for his bait of shell-fish which
                       ;
                                       ;

                                                                                ;

                                                                               a
has desolated whole counties to replace men by sheep or

cattle, and has destroyed fields and cottages to make

wilderness for deer and grouse which has stolen the com

mons and filched the roadside wastes which has driven the

labouring poor into the cities, and has thus been the primary
and chief cause of the lifelong misery, disease, and early

death of thousands who might have lived lives of honest

toil and comparative well-being had they been permitted
free access to land in their native villages --
                                                 the advocates
                       !

                                 is ;

                                    it
                                         is

                                                                    a
and beneficiaries of this inhuman system who, when

partial restitution of their unholy gains        proposed, are the
loudest in their cries of "robbery "

    But all the robbery, all the spoliation, all the legal and

illegal filching, has been on their side, and they still hold the

stolen property. They made laws to legalize their actions,
and, some day, we, the people, will make laws which will not

iS8               MY LIFE                  [Chap.

only legalize but justify our process of restitution. It will

justify because, unlike their laws, which always took from
the poor to give to the rich -- to the very class which made
the laws--ours will only take from the superfluity of the rich,
     it,
                  it

                             Ia
not to give to the poor or to any individuals, but to so
administer as to enable every man to live by honest work, to

restore to the whole people their birthright in their native

soil, and to relieve all alike from heavy burden of unnecessary
and unjust taxation. This will be the true statesmanship of

the future, and will be justified alike by equity, by ethics,

and by religion.

     In the few preceding pages have expressed the opinions

which have been gradually formed as the result of the ex

perience and study of my whole life. My first work on the
subject was entitled "Land Nationalization: its Necessity and

its Aims," and was published in the year 1882 and this,
                                          I
together with the various essays in the second volume of myit ;

"Studies Scientific and Social," published in 1900, may bea

taken as expressing the views now hold, and as pointing  I
it,
       it
             a

                                  it

                            I
                                  II
out some of the fundamental conditions which believe to be

essential for the well-being of society.

     But at the time of which am now writing such ideas

never entered my head.  certainly thought  pity to

enclose wild, picturesque, boggy, and barren moor, but

took for granted that there was some right and reason in

instead of being, as certainly was, both unjust, unwise,

and cruel. But the surveying was interesting work, as every

trickling stream, every tree, every mass of rock or boggy

waterhole, had to be marked on the map in its true relative

position, as well as the various footpaths or rough cart-roads

that crossed the common in various directions.

    At that time the medicinal springs, though they had been

used from the time of the Romans, were only visited by     aa

few Welsh or West of England people, and there was little

accommodation for visitors, except in the small hotel where

we lodged. One of our great luxuries here was the Welsh

mutton fed on the neighbouring mountains, so small that

X]  KINGTON AND RADNORSHIRE  159

hind-quarter weighed only seven or eight pounds, but which,

when hung a few days or a week, was most delicious eating.

I agree with George Borrow in his praise of this dish. In

his " Wild Wales " he says, " As for the leg of mutton it was

truly wonderful ; nothing so good had I ever tasted in the

shape of a leg of mutton. The leg of mutton of Wales beats
the leg of mutton of any other country, and I had never

tasted a Welsh leg of mutton before. Certainly I shall never
forget that first Welsh leg of mutton which I tasted, rich but

delicate, replete with juices derived from the aromatic herbs
of the noble Berwyn mountain, cooked to a turn, and weigh
ing just four pounds." Well done, George Borrow ! You

had a good taste in ale and mutton, and were not afraid to

acknowledge it.

                      CHAPTER XI

                      BRECKNOCKSHIRE

IT was in the summer or early autumn of 1841 that we left

Kington for the survey of a parish a few miles beyond the
town of Brecon. As there was no coach communication,

and the distance was only about thirty miles, we determined

to walk, and having sent our luggage by coach or waggon,

we started about sunrise, and after two hours' walking stopped

at a nice-looking roadside public-house for breakfast. Our

meal consisted of a large basin of bread-and-milk with half

a pint of good ale in and sugar to taste, which had been
                      it it,

                                 a

                                               I
recommended to my brother as the best thing to walk on.

I  certainly enjoyed  very much. We then walked on

through the little town of Hay, and soon after midday had

dinner at village inn and good rest, as the day was very
   a

hot and the roads hilly. In the afternoon became very

tired, and while we were still some miles from Brecon, felt

quite exhausted with the heat and fatigue. At length
                                                  I

                                                       I

became so faint that had to lie down in the road to prevent
      I I it I
                       I
myself from losing consciousness and falling down. How

ever, with the aid of repeated rests struggled on, and we

reached Brecon when was nearly dark.

   The next morning felt all right again, and as we started

for our destination, was delighted with the grand view of

the double-headed Beacons, the highest mountain in South

Wales, which, though five miles away, seem to rise up abruptly

into the clouds as viewed down the street by which we entered

the town. On leaving the town we crossed bridge over the
                                      a

                      160

[Chap. XI]  BRECKNOCKSHIRE                   161

little rocky stream, the Honddu, which here enters the Usk,
and gives the Welsh name to the town of Brecon --Aber-
honddu --aber meaning the confluence or meeting of waters.

So, Aberystwith, which has retained its Welsh name, is situ

ated where the little river Ystwith enters the sea. While

living in Radnorshire, where hardly any Welsh is spoken, I

had begun to take an interest in the picturesque names which

primitive people always give to localities. The first of these

to which my attention was called by my brother was Llan-

fihangel-nant-Melan, a village about ten miles west of
Kington, the name meaning " the Church of St. Michael on

Melan's brook." So, Abbey-cum-hir is the Abbey in the

long valley ; while the celebrated Vale of Llangollen ac
            aI
cording to George Borrow, named after Collen, an ancient
                                                   is,
British hero who became Abbot of Glastonbury, but afterwardsa

retired into the valley named after him.

     Our road lay along the north side of the valley of the
Usk, but at some distance from the river, through a very

picturesque country, crossing many small rivers, often looking

down upon the river Usk, which took special interest in

as my native stream, here approaching its source, and with

frequent views of the Beacons when nearer hills did not

intervene to block the view. After pleasant walk of about

six miles we reached the tiny village of Trallong, the parish

we had to survey, and obtained lodgings in the house of

shoemaker, where we were very comfortable for some months.

The house was pleasantly situated about two hundred and

fifty feet above the river, with an uninterrupted view to the

south-east over woody hills of moderate height to the fine

range of the Great Forest, culminating in the double peaks of

the Beacons, which were seen here fully separated with the

narrow ridge connecting them. At sunset they were often

beautifully tinted, and my brother made charming little
            a
                          a

                                                             a
water-colour sketch of them, which, with most of his best

sketches, were placed in an album by my sister, and this was

stolen or lost while she was moving in London.
     The family here were rather interesting. The father,

middle-aged man, could not speak word of English. His

VOL.  I.                                  M

MY LIFE  [Chap.

grown-up sons, who helped in the shoemaking, spoke but
little. The wife, however, a delicate woman and a great
invalid, though having to do all the work of the household,
spoke English very well, and told us that she preferred it to

Welsh, because it was less tiring, the Welsh having so many

gutturals and sounds which require an effort to pronounce
correctly. There were also two little girls who went to the

village school, and who spoke English beautifully as com
pared with our village children, because they had learnt it
from the schoolmaster and their mother. Of course, the

whole conversation in the house was in Welsh, and I picked

up a few common words and phrases, and could understand

others, though, owing to my deficiency in linguistic faculty, I

never learnt to speak the language.

     The schoolmaster was an intelligent and well-educated
man, and he often called in the evening to have a little con
versation with my brother. But almost the only special fact

I remember about him was his passion for cold water. Every

morning of his life he walked to the river half a mile off to

take a dip before breakfast, and in some frosty days in winter

I often saw him returning when he had had to break the

ice at the river's edge.

    I looked daily at the Beacons with longing eyes, and on a

fine autumn day one of the shoemaker's sons with a friend or
two and myself started off to make the ascent. Though less
than six miles from us in a straight line, we had to take a
rather circuitous course over a range of hills, and then up to
the head of a broad valley, which took us within a mile of the

summit, making the distance about ten miles. But the day

was gloriously fine, the country beautiful, and the view from
the top very grand ; while the summit itself was so curious as

greatly to surprise me, though I did not fully appreciate
its very instructive teaching till some years later, after I

had ascended many other mountains, had studied Lyell's
 " Principles of Geology," and had fully grasped the modern
views on sub-aerial denudation. As Brecknockshire is com
 paratively little known, and few English tourists make the

XI] BRECKNOCKSHIRE                                                            163

ascent of the Beacons, a short account of them will be both

interesting and instructive.

      The northern face of the mountain is very rocky and pre

cipitous, while on the southern and western sides easy slopes
reach almost to the summit. The last few yards however,
                                          a is
                                             a
                                                                is,
rather steep, and at the very top there   thick layer of peat,

which overhangs the rock little. On surmounting this on
                                   a
the west side the visitor finds himself in nearly flat triangulara

space, perhaps three or four acres in extent, bounded on the

north by very steep rocky slope, and on the other sidesa
by steep but not difficult grass slopes. To the north-east he

sees the chief summit about quarter of mile distant and
                                          aa
                                                       is
                                                              a
    nearly fifty feet higher, while connecting the two               narrow

    ridge or saddle-back, which descends about hundred feet in

is a   regular curve, and then rises again, giving an easy access to
    the higher peak. The top of this ridge only foot or two
                                          is
                                                         a

    wide and very steep on the northern slope, but the southern

    slope less precipitous, and about hundred yards down
           is is                          a                                       a it
                                                                          is
    there         small spring where the visitor can get deliciously
                aa a
    cold and pure water. The north-eastern summita                            also

    triangular, little larger than the other, and bounded by

    very dangerous precipice on the side towards Brecon, where

    there  is     nearly vertical slope of craggy rock for three or four

    hundred feet and very steep rocky slope for thousand,
                            is                          a
                                a
    so that           fall       almost certainly fatal, and several such

    accidents have occurred, especially when parties of young men

    from Brecon make holiday picnic to the summit.
                            a

      What strikes the observant eye as especially interesting

      the circumstance that these two triangular patches, forming

the culminating points of South Wales, both slope to the

    south-west, and by stooping down on either of them, and

looking towards the other, we find that their surfaces corre

    spond so closely in direction and amount of slope, that they

    impress one at once as being really portions of one con

    tinuous mountain summit. This becomes more certain when

    we look at the whole mountain mass, of which they form part,     a
    known as the " Fforest Fawr," or great forest of Brecknock.

    This extends about twenty miles from east to west and ten

1 64  MY LIFE                                        [Chap.

or twelve miles from north to south ; and in every part of it

the chief summits are from 2000 to 2500 feet high, while
near its western end, about twelve miles from the Beacons, is
the second highest summit, Van Voel, reaching 2632 feet
Most of these mountains have rounded summits which are

smooth and covered with grassy or sedgy vegetation, but
many of them have some craggy slopes or precipices on their

northern faces.
     Almost the whole of this region is of the Old Red Sand

stone formation, which here consists of nearly horizontal
strata with a moderate dip to the south ; and the whole of

the very numerous valleys with generally smooth and gradually
sloping sides which everywhere intersect must be all due
to sub-aerial denudation --that to rain, frost, and snow -- the
      is
                         is,
                                             it,
debris due to which carried away by the brooks and rivers.
The geologist looks upon the rounded summits of these moun
tains as indications of an extensive gently undulating plateau,
which had been slowly raised above the surface of the lakes

or inland seas in which they had been deposited, and subjected

to so little disturbance that the strata remain in nearlya
horizontal position. When from the summit of any of these
higher mountains we look over the wide parallel or radiating

valleys with the rounded grassy ridges, and consider that the

whole of the material that once filled all these valleys to the

level of the mountain-top has been washed away day by day
and year by year, by the very same agencies that after heavy
rain now render turbid every brooklet, stream, and riven

usually so clear and limpid, we obtain an excellent illustration

of how nature works in moulding the earth's surface by

process so slow as to be to us almost imperceptible.
     This process of denudation rendered especially clear to

us by the singular formation of the twin summits of the Brecon
Beacons. Here we are able, as were, to catch nature at
work. Owing to the rare occurrence of a nearly equal rate
of denudation in four or five directions around this highest
part of the original plateau, we have remaining for our
spection two little triangular patches of the original peat-

covered surface joined together by the narrow saddle, as
      is

        it

                                                       in a

.'.

                    THE BEACONS.
                   (Looking south.)

        PLAN OF SUMMIT OF BEACONS.
                    (Looking north.)

SECTION THROUGH SUMMI TS OF BEACONS.

                                        [To /ace p. 165, Vol. I.

XI] BRECKNOCKSHIRE                                                               165

shown in the sketches opposite, showing a plan of the summits

and a section through them to explain how accurately the two

coincide in their slope with that of the original plateau.

Every year the frost loosens the rock on the northern pre

cipices, every heavy rain washes down earth from the ridge,

while the gentler showers and mists penetrate the soil to the

rock surface, which they slowly decompose. Thus, year by

year, the flat portion of the summits becomes smaller, and a

few thousand years will probably suffice to eat them away

altogether, and leave rocky peaks more like that of Snowdon.

The formation, as we now find   it,in my experience, unique
-- that is, a mountain-top presenting two small patches ofis,
                                              is
almost level ground, evidently being the last remnant of the

great rolling plateau, out of which the whole range has been

excavated. Double-headed mountains are by no means un

common, but they are usually peaked or irregular, and carved

out of inclined or twisted strata. The peculiarity of the

Beacons consists in the strata being nearly horizontal and

undisturbed, while the rock formation not such as usually

to break away into vertical precipices. The original surface

must have had very easy slope, while there were no meteoro
                a

logical conditions leading to great inequalities of weathering.

The thick covering of peat has also aided in the result by

preserving the original surface from being scored into gullies,

and thus more rapidly denuded.

After we had completed most of our work at Trallong we

had to go further up the valley to Devynock. This an
                                                                             is

enormous parish of more than twenty thousand acres, divided

into four townships or chapelries, the two eastern of which,
Maescar and Senni, we had to survey. In these mountain

districts, however, we only surveyed those small portions

where the new roads or new enclosures had been made,

the older maps being accepted as sufficiently accurate for
the large unenclosed areas of mountain land. We first went

to Senni Bridge, where both districts terminate in the Usk

valley but after short time went to stay in little public-
;

                   in a

                            I

                                                                          a
house at Senni     the midst of my work, while my brother

1 66                        MY LIFE                        [Chai\

stayed at Devynock or at Trallong, which latter was quite as
near for half the work.

      On the other side of the river Usk there was a fine wooded

rocky slope in which paths had been made near and above

the river by some former resident owner, and this was a

favourite walk on holidays. In the farmhouse adjacent a

relative of the owner, a middle-aged man, who was apparently

on the verge between eccentricity and madness, lived in retire

ment, and we heard a good deal of his strange ways, though
they said he was quite harmless. He used to walk about a

good deal with a pipe in his mouth and dressed in a game

keeper style, and he always stopped to make some remark,

and then walked on without waiting for an answer. My

brother made a rough pen-and-ink sketch of him, which has

fortunately been preserved, and which is here reproduced, as it

well represents his appearance and manner when meeting any
one. Some of his sayings were not only wild but exceed

ingly coarse, others merely abrupt and strange. One day he
would say, " Where's your pipe ? Don't smoke ? Then go

home and begin if you want to be happy." Another time
something like this, " Who are you ? Come to look after
me? They say I'm mad, but I ain't. I'm here to enjoy
                 I like."
myself. Do as               One time when     he met my    brother,
after some such  rigmarole  as the above, he  ended with,
                                                           " Shave

your head and keep your toe-nails cut, and you'll be all

right."

   When I went up to Senni Street (Heol Senni, as it is

called in Welsh) I greatly enjoyed wandering over the pretty

valley which extended a long way into the mountains, flowing
over nearly level meadows and with an unusually twisted

course. This I found was so erroneously mapped, the

numerous bends having been inserted at random as if of no
importance, that I had to survey its course afresh. Above

the village there were several lateral tributaries descending

in deep woody dingles, often very picturesque, and these

had usually one or more waterfalls in their course, or deep

rocky chasms ; and as these came upon me unexpectedly, and

OUR ECCENTRIC NEIGHBOUR AT DEVVNOCK.
       {From a sketch by W. G. Wallace. '

                                     [To face p. 166. VOl. I.



'MAEN UJA," UPPER VALE OF NEATH.
                                     [ To face p. 167, Vol. I.

XI] BRECKNOCKSHIRE

I had seen very few like them in Radnorshire, they were more

especially attractive to me.
     One Sunday afternoon I walked up the valley and over

a mountain-ridge to the head waters of the Llia river, one of

the tributaries of the river Neath, to see an ancient stone,
named Maen Llia on the ordnance map. I was much
pleased to find a huge erect slab of old red sandstone nearly

twelve feet high, a photograph of which I am able to give
through the kindness of Miss Florence Neale of Penarth.
 These strange relics of antiquity have always greatly interested
 me, and this being the first I had ever seen, produced an

impression which is still clear and vivid.
      The people here were all thoroughly Welsh, but the land

lord of the inn, and a young man who lived with him, spoke

English fairly well. Like most of the Welsh the landlord

was very musical, and in the evenings he used to teach his

little girl, about five years old, to sing, first exercising her in
the notes, and then singing a Welsh hymn, which she followed

with a tremendously powerful voice for so small a child.

Her father was very proud of her, and said she would make

a fine singer when she grew up.

    While here, and also at Trallong, I went sometimes to

church or chapel in order to hear the Welsh sermons, and

also the Welsh Bible well read, and I was greatly struck

with the grand sound of the language and the eloquence and

earnestness of the preachers. The characteristic letters of
the language are the guttural ch, the dd pronounced soft

as "udh," the // pronounced "11th." If the reader will en

deavour to sound these letters he will have some idea of

the effect of such passages as the following, when clearly
and emphatically pronounced :-- "Brenhin Brenhinoedd, ac
                       "
Arglwydd    Arglwyddi      (" King of Kings   and Lord of
Lords     Again, " Ac                        gan ddywedyd,
").                       ymddiddanodd mi,
     a                 ia     a
                          ti
                                 ("
Tyred, mi ddangosaf           briodasferch " And talked with

me, saying, Come hither, will shew thee the bride "). TheseI
are passages from Revelation, but the following verse from
the Psalms still grander and more impressive --is

     " Cyn gwneuthur mynyddoedd, llunio honot ddaear
              y               a
                                            o

                                                            :

                                                        y

1 68                         MY LIFE                      [Chap.

a'r byd ; ti  "  hefyd wyt   Dduw, o dragywyddoldeb hyd dragy-
wyddoldeb         (" Before
                             the mountains were brought forth, or

ever Thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from

everlasting to everlasting, Thou art God ").
     The Welsh clergy are usually good readers and energetic

preachers, and seem to enjoy doing full justice to their rich

and expressive language, and even without being able to

follow their meaning it is a pleasure to listen to them.

      Among the numerous Englishmen who visit Wales for busi

ness or pleasure, few are aware to what an extent this ancient

British form of speech is still in use among the people, how

many are still unable to speak English, and what an amount

of poetry and legend their language contains. Some account
of this literature is to be found in that very interesting book,
George Borrow's " Wild Wales," and he claims for Dafydd
ap Gwilym, a contemporary of our Chaucer, the position of
" the greatest poetical genius that has appeared in Europe

since the revival of literature." At the present day there are

no less than twenty weekly newspapers and about the same

number of monthly magazines published in the Welsh

language, besides one quarterly and two bi-monthly reviews.

Abstracts of the principal Acts of Parliament and Parlia

mentary papers are translated into Welsh, and one firm of

booksellers, Messrs. Hughes and Son, of Wrexham, issue a list

of more than three hundred Welsh books mostly published by
themselves. Another indication of the wide use of the Welsh

language and of the general education of the people, is the

fact that the British and Foreign Bible Society now sell

annually about 18,000 Bibles, 22,000 Testaments, and 10,000

special portions (as the Psalms, the Gospels, etc.) ; while the
total sale of the Welsh scriptures during the last century has

been 3J millions. Considering that the total population of
Wales is only about i£ millions, that two counties, Pembroke

shire and Radnorshire, do not speak Welsh, and that the

great seaports and the mining districts contain large numbers

of English and foreign workmen, we have ample proof that

the Welsh are still a distinct nation with a peculiar language,

literature, and history, and that the claim which they are

XI] BRECKNOCKSHIRE                                                                                    169

now making for home rule, along with the other great sub
divisions of the British Islands, is thoroughly justified.

Our two other indigenous Celtic languages, Gaelic and

Irish, or Erse, appear to have a far less vigorous literary

existence. I am informed by the Secretary of the National

Bible Society of Scotland that about three thousand Bibles

and a little more than two thousand Testaments are sold

yearly. The number of people who habitually speak Gaelic

however, less than quarter of million, and the language
is,

     it

                         it,
                                      a

                                           is
                                               a

                                                                    a
                                                                               a

                                                                                                   a
seems to be kept up in a literary sense more by few

educated students and enthusiasts than to supply the needs

of the people.           form of Gaelic closely allied to
     The Irish language

that of Scotland, and there are still nearly million people

able to speak though only about one-tenth of that number

use exclusively. Owing to the prevalence of the Roman

Catholic religion among the peasantry, very few copies of

the Irish version of the Bible and Testament are now sold,

and although the ancient literature was exceedingly rich and
varied, any modern representative of can hardly be said to
        it

           is is

                  it

                                a

                                                    it
exist. The strong vitality of the Welsh language as above
sketched therefore very interesting feature of our country,

and as  undoubtedly suited to the genius of the people

among whom has survived, there seems to be no valid

objection to its perpetuation. The familiar use of two

languages does not appear to be in itself any disadvantage,

while being able to appreciate and enjoy the literature of

both must be distinct addition to the pure intellectual
        a

pleasures of those who use them.

                  CHAPTER XII

                    SHROPSHIRE AND JACK MYTTON

AFTER having finished our work in Brecknockshire we re
turned to Kington for a few months, doing office-work and
odd jobs of surveying in the surrounding country. Among
these what most interested me was the country around Ludlow,
in Shropshire, where there are beautiful valleys enclosed
by steep low hills, often luxuriantly wooded, and watered by

rapid streams of pure and sparkling water. I had by this

time acquired some little knowledge of geology, and was in
terested in again being in an Old Red Sandstone country,

which formation I had become well acquainted with in

Brecknockshire, and which is so different from the Upper

Silurian shales so prevalent in Radnorshire. In this country
we were near the boundary of the two formations, and there
were also occasional patches of limestone, and at every bit of

rock that appeared during our work I used to stop a few

moments to examine closely, and see which of the for
mations it belonged to. This was easily decided by the physical
character of the rocks, which, though both varied considerably,
had yet certain marked characteristics that distinguished
them.

      One day we were at work in a park near a country house
named " Whittern," and my brother took a pencil sketch of it
in his field-book. Just as he was finishing it the owner came
out and talked with him, and seeing he was something of an
artist, went to the house and brought out a portfolio of
drawings in sepia, by his daughter, of views in the park and

                                                                                 170

                         "WHITTERN. "  1842.)
{An outdoor sketch by W. G. Wallace.

[ Toface p. 170. Vol. I.


[Chap. xil] SHROPSHIRE AND JACK MYTTON 171

in the surrounding country. These seemed to me exceed
ingly well done and effective, and, of course, my brother

praised them, but, as I thought, only moderately, and as
" very good work for an amateur." I reproduce his sketch

on a reduced scale as showing his delicacy of touch even in

hasty out-of-door work, though, owing to the old yellowish
paper, the pencil marks come out very faint in the process

print.
     While travelling by coach or staying at country inns in

Shropshire, we used to hear a good deal of talk about Jack
Mytton, of Halston, who had died a few years before, and
whose wild exploits were notorious all over the West of
England. He was a country gentleman of very old family,

and had inherited a landed estate bringing in about .£10,000

a year, while having been a minor for eighteen years, there

was an accumulation of .£60,000 when he came of age. In a

few years he spent all these savings, and continued to live
at such a rate that he had frequently to raise money.

All the grand oaks for which his estates were celebrated

were cut down, and it is said produced £70,000. About
half his property was entailed, but the other half was

sold at various times, and must have realized a very large
amount ; while in the last years of his life, which he spent
either in prison for debt or in France, all the fine collection of
pictures, many by the old masters, and the whole contents of
his family mansion were sold, but did not suffice to pay his
debts or prevent his dying in prison. From the account given

by his intimate friend and biographer the total amount thus
wasted in about fifteen years could not have been much less
than half a million, but from the scanty details in his " Life "
it seems clear that he could not really have expended any
thing like this amount, but that his extreme good nature and

utter recklessness as to money led to his being robbed and

plundered in various ways by the numerous unscrupulous
persons who always congregate about such a character.

     For those who have not read the account of his wasted
life one or two examples illustrative of his character may
be here given. Once, before he was of age, when dining out

172                                                            MY LIFE   [Chap.

in the country, he had driven over in a gig with a pair of               a
horses tandem --his favourite style. On some of the party                              a it,
expressing the opinion that this was a very dangerous mode
of driving, Mytton at once offered to bet the whole party
£2$ each that he would then and there drive his tandem
across country to the turnpike road half a mile off, having
to cross on the way a sunk fence three yards wide, a broad
deep drain, and two stiff quickset hedges with ditches on the

further side. All accepted the bet. It was a moonlight

night, but twelve men with lanthorns accompanied the party
in case of accidents. He got into and out of the sunk fence

(I suppose what we call a Ha-ha) in safety, went at the

drain at such a pace that both horses and gig cleared
the jerk throwing Mytton on to the wheeler's back, from
which he climbed up to his seat, drove on, and through the

next two fences with apparent ease into the turnpike road
without serious injury, thus winning this extraordinary

wager.it                                                       a
            a                                                     a
     He was as reckless of other person's lives and limbs as he      aa
was of his own, upsetting one friend purposely because hea
had just said that he had never been upset in his life, and
jumping the leader over turnpike gate to see whether he
would take " timber," the gig being, of course, smashed, and

Mytton with his friend being thrown out, but, strange to say,
both uninjured.

     He was man of tremendous physical strength, and with
constitution that appeared able to withstand anything till he
ruined by excessive drinking. He was so devoted to sport
of some kind or other that nothing came amiss to him, riding
his horse upstairs, riding bear into his drawing-room, crawl

ing after wild ducks on the snow and ice stripped to his shirt,
or shooting rats with rifle. Several of these stories we

heard told by the people we met, but there were many others
of nature which could not be printed, and which referred to
the latter part of his life, when his wife had left him, and he
had entered on that downhill course of reckless dissipation
that culminated in his ruin and death.

     Never was there more glaring example of man of

xii] SHROPSHIRE AND JACK MYTTON  173

exceptional physical and mental qualities being ruined by the

inheritance of great wealth and by a life of pleasure and

excitement. Brought up from childhood on a great estate

which he soon learnt would be his own ; surrounded by
servants and flatterers, by horses and dogs, and seeing that

hunting, racing, and shooting were the chief interests and

occupations of those around him ; with an intense vitality
and superb physique, --who can wonder at his after career ?

At school he was allowed £400 a year, and it is said spent
£800--alone enough to demoralize any youth of his dis

position ; and as a natural sequence he was expelled, first
from Westminster and then from Harrow. He was then
placed with a private tutor for a year. He entered at both

Universities but matriculated at neither ; and when nineteen

became a cornet in the 7th Hussars, which he joined in
France with the army of occupation after Waterloo. He
quitted the army when of age, and settled at Halston.

      Such having been his early life it would seem almost

impossible that he could have profited much by his very
fragmentary education ; yet his biographer assures us that he
had a fair amount of classical knowledge, and throughout life
would quote Greek and Latin authors with surprising readi
ness, and, moreover, would quote them correctly, and always
knew when he made a mistake, repeating the passage again
and again till he had it correct. Several examples are given
when, in his later years, he quoted passages from Sophocles
and Homer to illustrate his own domestic and personal mis

fortunes. But besides these literary tastes he was a man

remarkable for many lovable characteristics and especially
for a real sympathy for the feelings of others. After being

arrested at Calais on bills he had accepted in favour of a

person with whom he had had some dealings, as soon as he

was released from prison by his solicitor paying the debt, he

called upon his former creditor, not to upbraid him, but to
walk with him arm-in-arm through the town, in order that the

affair might not injure the creditor's character, he being a

professional man. As his biographer says, few finer instances
of generosity and good feeling are on record. It was this

174  MY LIFE  [CiiAr.

aspect of his character that led to his being so universally
loved, that three thousand persons attended his funeral, with
every mark of respect.

     Here was a man whose qualities both of mind and body

might have rendered him a good citizen, a happy man, and a
cause of happiness to all around him, but whose nature was

perverted by bad education and a wholly vicious environment.
And such examples come before us continuously, exciting

little attention and no serious thought. A few years back we

had the champion plunger, who got rid of near a million in a
very short time ; and within the last few years we have had
in the bankruptcy court a young nobleman of historic lineage
and great estates ; also a youth just come into a fortune of

£ 12,000, who, while an undergraduate at Oxford, gave £5000

for four race-horses, which he had never seen, on the word of

the seller about whom he knew nothing, spent over a thousand
in training them, and in another year or two had got rid of
the last of his thousands besides incurring a considerable
amount of debt. But nobody seems to think that the great
number of such cases always occurring, and which are
probably increasing with the increasing numbers of great

fortunes, really indicates a thoroughly rotten social system.
      How often we hear the remark upon such cases, " He is

nobody's enemy but his own." But this is totally untrue,
and every such spendthrift is really a worse enemy of society
than the professional burglar, because he lives in the midst
of an ever-widening circle of parasites and dependents, whose
idleness, vice, and profligacy are the direct creation of his
misspent wealth. He is not only vicious himself, but he is a
cause of vice in others. Perhaps worse even than the vice is
the fact that among his host of dependents are many quite
honest people, who live by the salaries they receive from him
or the dealings they have with him, and the self-interest of
these leads them to look leniently upon the whole system

which gives them a livelihood. Innumerable vested interests

thus grow up around all such great estates, and the more

 wastefully the owner spends his income the better it seems to
be for all the tradesmen and mechanics in the district. But

xii] SHROPSHIRE AND JACK MYTTON 175

the fundamental evil is the kind of sanctity we attach to

property, however accumulated and however spent. Hence

no real reform is ever suggested ; and those who go to the

root of the matter and see that the evil is in the very fact of

inheritance itself, are scouted as socialists or something worse.
The inability of ordinary political and social writers to follow

out a principle is well shown in this matter. It is only a few

years since Mr. Benjamin Kidd attracted much attention to
the principle of " equality of opportunity " as the true basis

of social reform, and many of the more advanced political

writers at once accepted it as a sound principle and one that

should be a guide for our future progress. Herbert Spencer,

too, in his volume on "Justice," lays down the same principle,

stating, as "the law of social justice" that "each individual

ought to receive the benefits and evils of his own nature and

consequent conduct ; neither being prevented from having

whatever good his actions normally bring him, nor allowed to
shoulder off on to other persons whatever ill is brought to

him by his actions." This, too, has, so far as I am aware,

never been criticized or objected to as unsound, and, in fact,

the arguments by which it is supported are unanswerable.

Yet no one among our politicians or ethical writers has openly

adopted these principles as a guide for conduct in legislation,

or has even seen to what they inevitably lead. Stranger still,

neither Mr. Kidd nor Herbert Spencer followed out their

own principle to its logical conclusion, which the absoluteis,
                                                   a
condemnation of unequal inheritance. Herbert Spencer even
                                                              ;
declares himself in favour of inheritance as necessary

corollary of the right of property rightfully acquired and he
devotes chapter to " The Rights of Gift and Bequest."
   it
But he apparently did not see, and did not discuss the
      a
effect of this in neutralizing his "law of social justice,"

which does absolutely.  have myself fully shown this in          a
                        I

                                             :
chapter on " True Individualism the Essential Preliminary

of Real Social Advance" in my "Studies Scientific and
a

Social."

    It in consequence of not going to the root of the
   is

matter, and not following an admitted principle to its logical

176  MY LIFE  [Chap.

conclusion, that the idea prevails that it is only the misuse of

wealth that produces evil results. But a little consideration
will show us that it is the inheritance of wealth that is wrong
in itself, and that it necessarily produces evil. For if it is right,
it implies that inequality of opportunity is right, and that
"the law of social justice " as laid down by Herbert Spencer

is not a just law. It implies that it is right for one set of

individuals, thousands or millions in number, to be able to

pass their whole lives without contributing anything to the
well-being of the community of which they form a part, but

on the contrary keeping hundreds, or perhaps thousands, of
their fellow men and women wholly engaged in ministering
to their wants, their luxuries, and their amusements. Taken

as a whole, the people who thus live are no better in their

nature --physical, moral, or intellectual --than other thousands
who, having received no such inheritance of accumulated

wealth, spend their whole lives in labour, often under ex

hausting, unhealthy, and life-shortening conditions, to pro
duce the luxuries and enjoyments of others, but of which

they themselves rarely or more often never partake. Even
leaving out of consideration the absolute vices due to wealth

on the one hand and to poverty on the other, and supposing
both classes to pass fairly moral lives, who can doubt that

both are injured morally, and that both are actually, though
often unconsciously, the causes of ever-widening spheres of

demoralization around them ? If there is one set of people

who are tempted by their necessities to prey upon the rich,

there is a perhaps more extensive class who are in the same

way driven to prey upon the poor. And it is the very

system that produces and encourages these terrible in

equalities that has also led to the almost incredible result,
that the ever-increasing power of man over the forces of

nature, especially during the last hundred years, while
rendering easily possible the production of all the necessaries,
comforts, enjoyments, and wholesome luxuries of life for

every individual, have yet, as John Stuart Mill declared,
" not diminished the toil of any worker," but even, as there is

ample evidence to prove, has greatly increased the total mass

xii] SHROPSHIRE AND JACK MYTTON

of human misery and want in every civilized country in the

world.

    And yet our rulers and our teachers--the legislature, the

press, and the pulpit alike -- shut their eyes to all this terrible

demoralization in our midst, while devoting all their energies

to increasing our already superfluous and injurious wealth-

accumulations, and in compelling other peoples, against their

will, to submit to our ignorant and often disastrous rule. As
the great Russian teacher has well said, " They will do any

thing rather than get off the people's backs." And we, who

adopt the principles of those great thinkers whom all delight
to honour -- Ruskin and    "S--peonfceeqr --ualanedduucargtieont,heequaadlopntuiorntureo,f
" equality of opportunity
an equal start in life --for all (implying the abolition of all

inequality of inheritance) as the one Great Reform which
will alone render all other reforms -- all general social advance
--possible, are either quietly ignored as idle dreamers, or
openly declared to be " enemies of society."

     These few remarks and ideas have been suggested to me

by the life and death of Jack Mytton, and I trust that some
of my readers may follow them up for the good of humanity.

VOL L                            N

                 CHAPTER XIII

                        GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH

It was late in the autumn of 1841 that we finally bade adieu

to Kington and the wild but not very picturesque Radnor
shire mountains for the more varied and interesting county

of Glamorgan. I have no distinct recollection of our journey,
but I believe it was by coach through Hay and Brecon to

Merthyr Tydvil, and thence by chaise to Neath. One solitary

example of the rhyming letters I used to write has been

preserved, giving my younger brother Herbert an account of
our journey, of the country, and of our work, of which,
though very poor doggerel, a sample may be given. After a
few references to family matters, I proceed to description.

                        " From Kington to this place we came
                           By many a spot of ancient fame,
                              But now of small renown,
                           O'er many a mountain dark and drear,
                           And vales whose groves the parting year
                               Had tinged with mellow brown ;
                           And as the morning sun arose
                           New beauties round us to disclose,
                               We reached fair Brecon town ;
                           Then crossed the Usk, my native stream,
                            A river clear and bright,
                           Which showed a fair and much-lov'd scene
                               Unto my lingering sight."

     We had to go to Glamorganshire to partially survey and
make a corrected map of the parish of Cadoxton-juxta-
Neath, which occupies the whole northern side of the Neath
valley from opposite the town of Neath to the boundary of

                                                                      178

[Chap. XIII] GLAMORGANSHIRE : NEATH                     179

the county at Pont-Nedd-Fychan, a distance of nearly fifteen
miles, with a width varying from two to three miles, the

boundary running for the most part along the crest of the

mountains that bound the valley on the north-west. We

lodged and boarded at a      farmhouse called Bryn-coch (Red
                             ground about two miles north of
Hill), situated on a rising

the town. The farmer, David Rees, a rather rough, stout
Welshman, was also bailiff of the Duffryn estate. His

wife could not speak a word of English, but his two daughters
spoke it very well, with the pretty rather formal style of

those who have first learnt it at school. Here we stayed more

than a year, living plainly but very well, and enjoying the

luxuries of home-made bread, fresh butter and eggs, un

limited milk and cream, with cheese made from a mixture of

cow's and sheep's milk, having a special flavour, which I soon

got very fond of. In this part of Wales it is the custom to
milk the ewes chiefly for the purpose of making this cheese,

which is very much esteemed. Another delicacy we first

became acquainted with here was the true Welsh flummery,
             " sucan  blawd " (steeped meal), in other places
called here  " (sour  sediment), whence our English word
" Llumruwd

"flummery." It is formed of the husks of the oatmeal roughly

sifted out, soaked in water till it becomes sour, then strained

and boiled, when it forms a pale brown sub-gelatinous mass,

usually eaten with abundance of new milk. It is a very

delicious and very nourishing food, and frequently forms

the supper in farmhouses. Most people get very fond of
                                        is
                                           a

                                                   is
                                                            it,
and there no dish known to English cookery that at all
it

     ;

          is

         I
like but believe the Scotch " sowens "  similar or

identical preparation. This dish, with thin oatmeal cakes,

home-made cheese, bacon, and sometimes hung beef, with

potatoes and greens, and abundance of good milk, form the

usual diet of the Welsh peasantry, and certainly very
                                is
                                                     a

wholesome and nourishing combination. We, however, had

also two other kinds of bread, both excellent, especially when

made from new wheat. One was the ordinary huge loaves
of farmhouse bread, the other what was called backstone

bread --large flat cakes about foot in diameter and an inch
                             a

180               MY LIFE                               [Chap.

thick, baked over the fire on a large circular iron plate
(formerly on a stone or slate, hence the name " bakestone "
or " backstone
                  This excellent, either split open and
                  ").
                          a

                                   is
buttered when hot, or the next day cut edgeways into slices

of bread-and-butter, delicacy fit for any lady's afternoon

tea.

    A little rocky stream bordered by trees and bushes ran

through the farm, and was one of my favourite haunts.

There was one little sequestered pool about twenty feet long

into which the water fell over ledge about foot high.
                                       aa     I
This pool was seven or eight feet deep, but shallowed at thea

further end, and thus formed               delightful bathing-place.

Ever since my early escape from drowning at Hertford,          I
had been rather shy of the water, and had not learned to

swim but here the distance was so short that determined
I
to try, and soon got to enjoy so much that every fine warm;I

day used to go and plunge head first off my ledge and swimit
in five or six strokes to the shallow water. In this very

limited sphere of action gained some amount of confidence

in the water, and afterwards should probably have been able

to swim dozen or twenty yards, so as to reach the bank of
a
               a
  moderate-sized river, or sustain myself till some neighbour
ing boat came to my assistance. But have never needed
                                           I

even this moderate amount of effort to save my life, and

have never had either the opportunity or inclination toa

become practised swimmer. This was partly due to a
physical deficiency which was unable to overcome. My
                  is it

                         I

                                     a is
legs are unusually long for my height, and the bones are
unusually large. The result that they persistently sink

in the water, bringing me into nearly vertical position, and

their weight renders almost impossible to keep my mouth

above water. This the case even in salt water, and being

also rather deficient in strength of muscle,  I  became dis

inclined to practise what felt to be beyond my powers.
                  I

     The parish being so extensive we had to stay at many

different points for convenience of the survey, and one of

these was about five miles up the Dulais valley, where we

stayed at small beershop in the hamlet of Crynant. was
        a

                                                            I

xiii] GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH  181

often here alone for weeks together, and saw a good deal of
the labourers and farmers, few of whom could speak any
English. The landlady here brewed her own beer in very

primitive fashion in a large iron pot or cauldron in the wash-

house, and had it ready for sale in a few days --a rather thick
and sweetish liquor, but very palatable. The malt and hops

were bought in small quantities as wanted, and brewing took

place weekly, or even oftener, when there was a brisk demand.

     In my bedroom there was a very large old oak chest,

which I had not taken the trouble to look in, and one morn
ing very early I heard my door open very slowly and quietly.
I wondered what was coming. A man came in, cautiously
looking to see if I was asleep. I wondered if he was a robber

or a murderer, but lay quite still. He moved very slowly to

the big chest, lifted the lid, put in his arm, groped about a
little, and then drew out a large piece of hung beef ! The
chest contained a large quantity bedded in oatmeal. My

mind was relieved, and I slept on till breakfast time.
     A young Englishman who was a servant in a gentleman's

house near used to come to the beershop occasionally, and

would sometimes give me local information or interpret for
me with the landlady when no one else was at home. He
seemed to speak Welsh quite fluently, yet to my great
astonishment he told me he had only been in Wales three or
four months, and could not read or write. He said he picked

up the language by constantly talking to the people, and I

have noticed elsewhere that persons who are thus illiterate

learn languages by ear with great rapidity. It no doubt

 arises from the fact that, having no other mental occupations
 and no means of acquiring information but through conversa

 tion, their whole mental capacities are concentrated on the
 one object of learning to speak to the people. Some natural
 faculty of verbal memory must no doubt exist, but when this

 is present in even a moderate degree the results are often
 very striking. Somewhat analogous cases are those of teach

 ing the deaf and dumb the gesture language, lip-reading, and

 even articulate speech which they cannot themselves hear,
 and the still more marvellous cases of Laura Bridgman

182  MY LIFE  [Chap.

and Helen Keller, in which was added blindness, so that

the sense of touch was alone available for receiving ideas.
The effect in developing the mind and enabling the sufferers

to live full, contented, and even happy lives has been most
marvellous, and give us a wonderful example of the capacity
of the mind for receiving the most abstract ideas through one

sense alone. Such persons, without proper training, would
be in danger of becoming idiotic or insane from the absence
of all materials on which to exercise the larger portion of

their higher mental faculties. It is observed that, when
first being taught the connection of arbitrary signs with

objects, they are docile but apathetic, not in the least under
standing the purport of the training. But after a time, when
they perceive that they are acquiring a means of communi

cating their own wishes and even ideas to others, and receiv
ing ideas and knowledge of the outer world from them, their

whole nature seems transformed, and the acquisition and
extension of this knowledge becomes the great object and

the great pleasure of their lives. It seems to occupy all their

thoughts and employ all their faculties, and they make an
amount of progress which astonishes their teachers and seems

quite incredible to persons ordinarily constituted. It gives

them, in fact, what every one needs, some useful or enjoyable

occupation for body and mind, and is almost equivalent to

furnishing them with the faculties they have lost. A similar

explanation may be given of the comparatively rapid acquisi
tion by the deaf and dumb of those difficult arts--lip-
reading by watching the motion of the lips and face of the

speaker, and intelligible speech by imitating the motions
during speech of the lips, tongue, and larynx by using a
combination of vision and touch. These give them new
means of communication with their fellows, and their whole

mental powers are therefore devoted to their acquisition. It

is a new employment for their minds, equivalent to a new

and very interesting game for children, and under such con
ditions learning becomes one of their greatest pleasures.
The same principle applies to the rapid acquisition of a new

language by the illiterate. Being debarred from reading and

xili]       GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH                          183

writing, all their intellectual pleasures depend upon converse

with their fellows, and thus their thoughts and wishes are
intensely and continuously directed to the acquisition of the
means of doing so.

A mile further up the valley was a small gentleman's house

with about a hundred and fifty acres of land attached, owned

and occupied by a Mr. Worthington, his wife and wife's sister.

They had, I believe, come there not long before from Devon

shire, and being refined and educated people, we were glad

to make their acquaintance, and soon became very friendly.

Mr. Worthington was a tall and rather handsome man

between fifty and sixty ; while his wife was perhaps fifteen
or twenty years younger, rather under middle size and very

quiet and agreeable ; while her sister was younger, smaller,

and more lively. They lent us books and magazines, and we

often went there to spend the evening. I do not think our

friend knew much about farming, but he had a kind of working

bailiff and two or three labourers to cultivate the land, which,

however, was mostly pasture. The place is called Gelli-duch-
                      of which is obscure. " The grove and the
lithe, the  meaning   inappropriate, and seems more likely than
wet moor    " is not

any connection with "llaeth" (milk), which implies good

land or rich pastures, which were decidedly absent.

Mr. Worthington was an eccentric but interesting man. He

played the violin beautifully, and when in the humour would

walk about the long sitting-room playing and talking at in

tervals. He discussed all kinds of subjects, mostly personal,

and he was, I think, the most openly egotistical man I ever met,
and I have met many. After playing a piece that was one of

his favourites, he would say to my brother, " Was not that

fine, Mr. Wallace ? There are not many amateurs could play
in that style, are there ?--or professionals either," he would

sometimes add. And after telling some anecdote in which

he was the principal personage, he would often finish up with,
" Don't I deserve                                       "
                      praise for that,  Mr.  Wallace       On one
                                                      ?

occasion, I remember, after telling us of how he befriended a

poor girl and resisted temptation, he concluded with, "Was

                             MY LIFE                  [Chap.

not that a noble  act,  Mr.  Wallace    "  to  which  we, as visitors,

                                      ?

were, of course, bound to assent with as much appearance of

conviction as we could manage to express. These things were

a little trying, but he carried them off so well, so evidently

believed them himself, and spoke in so earnest and dignified

a manner, that had we been more intimate, and could have

permitted ourselves to laugh openly at his more extravagant

outbursts, we should have had a more thorough enjoyment

of his society.

Of course, such an appreciation of his own merits led to

his taking the blackest view of all who opposed him, and thus

led to what was in the nature of a tragedy for his wife as well

as for himself, and one in which we had to bear our part.

His property was bounded on one side by the little river

Dulais, which wound about in a narrow belt of level pasture,

and in places appeared to have changed its course, leaving

dry channels, which were occasionally filled during floods. It

was to one of these further channels that our friend claimed

that his property extended, founding his belief on the evidence

of some old people who remembered the river flowing in this

channel, some of whom also declared that the cattle and sheep
belonging to Gelli used to graze there. He would talk for

hours about maintaining that the old water-line was always
a
             it,the boundary, and that the adjoining landlord, Lord
                                      's
was trying to rob him by the power of his wealth and influence.
                                                       if
                                                                                                            ,
The whole of the little pieces of land in dispute did not

amount to more than half an acre and were not worth more

than few pounds, and his own lawyer tried to persuade him

that the issue was very doubtful, and that even he won, the

bits of land were not worth either the cost or the worry. But

nothing would stop him, and by his orders an act of trespass

was committed on the land to which he thus formally laid

claim, and after much correspondence an action was com

menced against him by Lord                 lawyers. Then we were

employed to make plan of the pieces claimed, and the case
                  a

came on for trial at the Cardiff Assizes.

The partner of the London solicitor came down for the

case and engaged one of the most popular barristers, the best

Xlii]  GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH                                                           185

having been secured by the other side. Our friend was per

suaded not to be present, and I was engaged to attend and
take full notes of the proceedings, which I copied out in the
evening and sent off to him. I stayed at a hotel with the

lawyer, and the town being very crowded, we shared the same

bedroom and had our meals together. He was by no means

sanguine of success, and the first day's proceedings made him

less so, as the other side stated that they had documents

that proved their case, and intimated that the defendant knew

it. The first day was Friday or Saturday, and we returned

to Gelli till the Monday, and in the interval there occurred a

scene. The lawyer felt confident that his client had not

produced all the deeds he possessed relating to the estate,

and insisted on being shown every single document or he

would give up the case. Very reluctantly they were pro

duced, and after a close examination one was found which

had a map of the farm showing the boundary as claimed by

the other side. The lawyer was a little man and lame, while

Mr. Worthington was tall, erect, and defiant ; but the former

stood up, and, holding the document in his hand, blazed out
against his client. " Mr. Worthington," he said, " you have

behaved scandalously, foolishly, almost like a madman. You

have deceived your own lawyer, and put him in the wrong.

You have denied the possession of documents which you knew

were dead against your claim. Had we known of the exist

ence of this deed we would never have defended your case,

and if I were acting for myself alone I would throw it up

instantly. But Mr.  , my partner, is an old friend of your

self and your family, and to save you from open disgrace the

case must go on to the end. But I tell you now, you will

lose and you deserve to lose for you have not acted
       it,
                                                            it,
                                                                                    a
honourably or even honestly."

    All this was said with the greatest fire and energy, and

Mr. Worthington was, for the first time in my experience, com

pletely cowed. He vainly tried to interpose word, to disclaim

knowledge of the importance of this deed, etc., but the lawyer

shook his fist at him, and thoroughly silenced him. Finally,

he told him that he should now act without consulting him,

MY LIFE  [Chap.

and if Mr. Worthington interfered in any way he would

throw up the case.

    It turned out as the lawyer expected. The other side

had deeds showing the same boundary as that which Mr.

Worthington had concealed. Our evidence as to possession
was weak. Our counsel appealed to the jury for a poor man
struggling for his rights against the power of wealth. But
the judge summed up against us on the evidence, and the
other side won. Mr. Worthington had insisted upon hearing

his counsel's speech, which evidently gave him hopes, and

when the verdict was given he was overwhelmed, looked

altogether dazed, and I thought he would have a fit. But we

got him at once out of court, went back to the inn, and as
soon as possible drove home together. As soon as he
recovered himself somewhat, he exclaimed, " My counsel was

a noble fellow, he upheld the right ; but we had an unjust

judge, Mr. Wallace." I forgot to mention that Mr. Worthing
ton wore a brown curly wig, which I had at first taken for

his natural hair, and when he was much excited he would
suddenly snatch it off his head, when he looked rather ludi
crous. The costs which he had to pay were very heavy, and
he had to sell Gelli to pay them, and soon afterwards left

the district to return to Devonshire. I fancy he had before

lost a good deal of property, and this last misfortune was
almost ruin. After they left I do not think we ever heard of

them again, though my brother may have done so.

     After living about a year at Bryn-coch we moved a little
nearer the town to the other side of the Clydach river, and

lodged with an old colliery surveyor, Samuel Osgood, in the
employment of Mr. Price, of the Neath Abbey Iron Works.
The house was an old but roomy cottage, and we had a large

bedroom and a room downstairs for an office and living room,
while Mr. Osgood had another, and there was also a roomy

kitchen. A tramway from some collieries to the works ran in

front of the house at a little distance, and we had a good view
of the town and up the vale of Neath. Behind us rose the
Drymau Mountain, nearly seven hundred feet above us, the

XIII]             GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH  187

level top of which was frequented by peewits, and whose steep
slopes were covered with trees and bushes. Here we lived

till I left Neath a year later, and were on the whole very

comfortable, though our first experience was a rather trying

one. The bedroom we occupied had been unused for years, and

though it had been cleaned for our use we found that every

part of bedstead, floor, and walls, in every crack and cranny,
       I it,
harboured the Cimex lectularius, or bedbug, which attacked
               ;
us by hundreds, and altogether banished sleep. This required

prompt and thorough measures, and my brother at once took

them.           was sent to the town for some ounces of corrosive

sublimate the old wooden bedstead was taken to pieces,

and, with the chairs, tables, drawers, etc., taken outside. The

poison was dissolved in a large pailful of water, and with this
solution by means of a whitewasher's brush the whole of the

floor was thoroughly soaked, so that the poison might pene

trate every crevice, while the walls and ceiling were also

washed over. The bedstead and furniture were all treated in

the same way, and everything put back in its place by the

evening. We did all the work ourselves, with the assistance

of Mrs. Osgood and servant girl, and so effectual was the
                  a
                            a
treatment that for nearly year that we lived there we were

wholly unmolested by insect enemies.

Mr. and Mrs. Osgood were both natives of the ancient

town of Bideford, Devon, which they continually referred to

as the standard of both manners and morality, to the great

disadvantage of the Welsh. They were both old, perhaps

between sixty and seventy, and thought old fashions were the

best. Mr. Osgood was an old-fashioned surveyor, and was also

pretty good mechanic. He prided himself upon his work,
a
                            a

                                              it

                                                       if

                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                            a
upon his plans of the colliery workings, and especially upon

his drawings, which were all copies from prints, usually very

common ones, but which he looked upon as works of high

art. Among these, he was especially proud of horse, in

copying which in pen and ink he had so exaggerated the

muscular development that looked as the skin had been

taken off to exhibit the separate muscles for anatomical teach
ing. It was
                  powerful-looking horse in the attitude of

                                MY LIFE                                                [Chap.

high-stepper, but so exaggerated and badly drawn as to be

almost ludicrous. It was framed and hung in his room, and

he always called visitors' attention to and told them that
                                            if

                                                 it,
Mr. Price, the owner of the collieries, had said that he could

never get horse like that one, as this were the highest
a

commendation possible of his work.

About that time the method of measuring the acreage of

fields on maps by means of tracing-paper divided into squares

of one chain each, with beam-compass to sum up each line
                                a

of squares, had recently come into use by surveyors and Mr.
                                            a

                                                                                    ;
Osgood amused himself by making number of these com

passes of various kinds of wood nicely finished and well

polished, rather as examples of his skill than for any use he

had for them, though he occasionally sold them to some of

the local surveyors. He had these all suspended vertically

on the wall instead of horizontally, as they are usually placed,

and as they look best. While we were one day admiring the
workmanship of an addition to the series, he remarked, "
                                                                                       ;I
dare say you don't know why hang them up that way
                                   it I

                                        is
very few people do." Of course, we acknowledged we did
not know. " Well," said he, "
                                            very important. The air

presses with weight of fifteen pounds on every square inch,
it iIf
               a
                         a
and hung them up level the pressure in the middle would

very soon bend them, and they would be spoilt." My brother

knew was no good to try and show him his error, so merely
said, " Yes, that's very good idea of yours," and left the old

man in the happy belief that he was quite scientific in his

methods. My brother took sketch of him enjoying his
                                   a

pipe and glass of toddy of an evening, which was very good
                                                            a
likeness, and which here reproduced.                                             a
                            is

     After we had completed the survey and maps of Cadoxton,
which occupied us about six months, we had not much to do
except small pieces of work of various kinds. One of these
was to make survey and take soundings of the river between
the bridge and the sea, distance of three or four miles, for
proposed scheme of improving the navigation, making docks,
etc., which was partly carried out some years later. We also
   a
                        a

                    SAMUEL OSGOOD.
{From a sketch by IV. G. Wallace. 1843.)

                                      [To face p. 188. Vol. I.

I

XIII]  GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH  189

had a little architectural and engineering work, in designing
and superintending the erection of warehouses with powerful
cranes, which gave me some insight into practical building.
To assist in making working drawings and specifications, my

brother had purchased a well-known work, Bartholomew's
"Specifications for Practical Architecture." This book, though
mainly on a very dry and technical subject, contained an
introduction on the principles of Gothic architecture which
gave me ideas upon the subject of the greatest interest and

value, and which have enabled me often to form an inde
pendent judgment on modern imitations of Gothic or of any
other styles. Bartholomew was an enthusiast for Gothic,

which he maintained was the only true and scientific system
of architectural construction in existence. He showed how
all the most striking and ornamental features of Gothic archi
tecture are essential to the stability of a large stone-built

structure --the lofty nave with its clerestory windows and
arched roof; the lateral aisles at a lower level, also with
arched roofs ; the outer thrust of these arches supported by
deep buttresses on the ground, with arched or flying but

tresses above ; and these again rendered more secure by
being weighted down with rows of pinnacles, which add so
much to the beauty of Gothic buildings. He rendered his

argument more clear by giving a generalized cross-section of
a cathedral, and drawing within the buttresses the figure of a

man, with outstretched arms pushing against the upper arches

to resist their outward thrust, and being kept more steady by
a heavy load upon his head and shoulders representing the
pinnacle. This section and figure illuminated the whole con
struction of the masterpieces of the old architects so clearly

and forcibly, that though I have not seen the book since, I
have never forgotten it. It has furnished me with a standard

by which to judge all architecture, and has guided my taste
in such a small matter as the use of stone slabs over window

openings in brick buildings, thus concealing the structural

brick arch, and using stone as a beam, a purpose for which

iron or wood are better suited. It also made me a very

severe critic of modern imitations of Gothic in which we often

190  MY LIFE  [Chap.

see buttresses and pinnacles for ornament alone, when the
roof is wholly of wood and there is no outward thrust to be

guarded against ; while in some cases we see useless gargoyles,
which in the old buildings stretched out to carry the water
clear of the walls, but which are still sometimes imitated

when the water is carried into drains by iron gutters and

water pipes. I also learnt to appreciate the beautiful tracery

of the large circular or pointed windows, whose harmonies

and well-balanced curves and infinitely varied designs are a

delight to the eye ; while in most modern structures the

attempts at imitating them are deplorable failures, being
usually clumsy, unbalanced, and monotonous. One of the

very few modern Gothic buildings in which the architect has
caught the spirit of the old work is Barry's Houses of Parlia

ment, which, whether in general effect or in its beautifully
designed details, is a delight to the true lover of Gothic

architecture. My brother had seen the exhibition of the
competing designs, and he used always to speak of the un
mistakable superiority of Barry over all the others.

     Among our few intellectual friends here was the late
Mr. Charles Hay ward, a member of the Society of Friends
(commonly called Quakers), as were Mr. Price of Neath
Abbey, and our temporary landlord, Mr. Osgood. Mr. Hay-

ward had a bookseller's shop in the town combined with that
of a chemist and druggist, but he himself lived in a pretty
cottage about half a mile out of the town, where he had two
or three acres of land, kept a cow, and experimented in agri
culture on a small scale ; while his partner, Mr. Hunt, lived at

the shop. A year or two later these gentlemen gave up the

business and took a farm from Mr. Talbot of Margam Abbey,

which they farmed successfully for some years, their chemical

knowledge enabling them to purchase refuse materials from

some of the manufacturers in the district which served as
valuable manures. Later, Mr. Hayward took a larger farm

near Dartmouth, where I had the pleasure of visiting him
after my return from the East. A good many years later,
when I lived at Godalming, he was again my neighbour, as

 after the death of his wife he came to live with his nephew,

XIII]  GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH  191

C. F. Hayward, Esq., a well-known London architect, who
had a country house close by my cottage. Mr. Hayward

began life with nothing but a good education, industry, and
a love of knowledge. He is an example of the possibility

of success in farming without early training and with very
scanty capital. Of course, the period was a good one for

farmers, but it was not every one who could have made even

a bare living under such unfavourable conditions. After he
came to live at Godalming, when over seventy years of age, he
began to exercise his hitherto dormant faculty of water-colour
drawing. For this he made most of his own colours from

natural pigments, earthy or vegetable, and executed a number

of bold and effective landscapes, showing that if he had had

early training he might have excelled in this beautiful art. Mr.

Hayward was among my oldest and most esteemed friends.

     During the larger portion of my residence at Neath we

had very little to do, and my brother was often away, either
seeking employment or engaged upon small matters of busi

ness in various parts of the country. I was thus left a good

deal to my own devices, and having no friends of my own

age I occupied myself with various pursuits in which I had

begun to take an interest. Having learnt the use of the

sextant in surveying, and my brother having a book on

Nautical Astronomy, I practised a few of the simpler observa

tions. Among these were determining the meridian by equal
altitudes of the sun, and also by the pole-star at its upper or

lower culmination ; finding the latitude by the meridian
altitude of the sun, or of some of the principal stars ; and

making a rude sundial by erecting a gnomon towards the

pole. For these simple calculations I had Hannay and

Dietrichsen's Almanac, a copious publication which gave
all the important data in the Nautical Almanac, besides

much other interesting matter, useful for the astronomical

amateur or the ordinary navigator. I also tried to make a

telescope by purchasing a lens of about two feet focus at an
optician's in Swansea, fixing it in a paper tube and using the
eye-piece of a small opera glass. With it I was able to

192  MY LIFE  [Chap.

observe the moon and Jupiter's satellites, and some of the
larger star-clusters ; but, of course, very imperfectly. Yet it

served to increase my interest in astronomy, and to induce
me to study with some care the various methods of construc

tion of the more important astronomical instruments ; and
it also led me throughout my life to be deeply interested
in the grand onward march of astronomical discovery.

     But what occupied me chiefly and became more and
more the solace and delight of my lonely rambles among the
moors and mountains, was my first introduction to the

variety, the beauty, and the mystery of nature as manifested

in the vegetable kingdom.

    I have already mentioned the chance remark which gave

me the wish to know something about wild flowers, but

nothing came of it till 1841, when I heard of and obtained a

shilling paper-covered book published by the Society for the

Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, the title of which I forget,

but which contained an outline of the structure of plants and
a short description of their various parts and organs ; and
also a good description of about a dozen of the most common
of the natural orders of British plants. Among these were
the Cruciferae, Caryophylleae, Leguminosae, Rosacea;, Umbel-
liferae, Composite, Scrophularineae, Labiate, Orchidese, and
Glumaceae. This little book was a revelation to me, and for

Ia year was my constant companion. On Sundays would

stroll in the fields and woods, learning the various parts and

organs of any flowers I could gather, and then trying how

many of them belonged to any of the orders described in my

book. Great was my delight when I found that I could

identify a Crucifer, an Umbellifer, and a Labiate ; and as one

after another the different orders were recognized, I began to

realize for the first time the order that underlay all the
variety of nature. When my brother was away and there

was no work to do, I would spend the greater part of the day

wandering over the hills or by the streams'gathering flowers,
and either determining their position from my book, or

coming to the conclusion that they belonged to other orders

of which I knew nothing, and as time went on I found that

XIII]    GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH     193

there were a very large number of these, including many of

our most beautiful and curious flowers, and I felt that I must
get some other book by which I could learn something about
these also. But I knew of no suitable book, I did not even

know that any British floras existed, and having no one to

help me, I was obliged to look among the advertisements of

scientific or educational publications that came in my way.

At length, soon after we came to Neath, David Rees happened

to bring in an old number of the Gardener's Chronicle, which

I read with much interest, and as I found in it advertise
ments and reviews of books, I asked him to bring some more

copies, which he did, and I found in one of them a notice of
the fourth edition of Lindley's " Elements of Botany," which,

as it was said to contain descriptions of all the natural

orders, illustrated by numerous excellent woodcuts, I thought
would be just the thing to help me on. The price, ioj. 6d.,

Irather frightened me, as was always very short of cash ; but

happening to have so much in my possession, and feeling

that I must have some book to go on with, I ordered it at

Mr. Hayward's shop.

    When at length it arrived, I opened it with great expecta

tions, which were, however, largely disappointed, for although

the larger part of the book was devoted to systematic

botany, and all the natural orders were well and clearly

described, yet there was hardly any reference to British
plants -- not a single genus was described, it was not even

stated which orders contained any British species and which

were wholly foreign, nor was any indication given of their

general distribution or whether they comprised numerous or

few genera or species. The inclusion of all the natural

orders and the excellent woodcuts illustrating many of

them, and showing the systematic characters by dissections

of the flowers and fruits, were, however, very useful, and

enabled me at once to classify a number of plants which had

hitherto puzzled me. Still, it was most unsatisfactory not to

be able to learn the names of any of the plants I was observ
ing, so one day I asked Mr. Hayward if he knew of any

book that would help me. To my great delight he said he

vol. 1.                         o

194  MY LIFE  [Chap.

had Loudon's " Encyclopaedia of Plants," which contained all

the British plants, and he would lend it to me, and I could

copy the characters of the British species.

    I therefore took it home to Bryn-coch, and for some

weeks spent all my leisure time in first examining it carefully,

finding that I could make out both the genus and the species

of many plants by the very condensed but clear descriptions,

and I therefore copied out the characters of every British

species there given. As Lindley's volume had rather broad

margins, I found room for all the orders which contained

only a moderate number of species, and copied the larger

orders on sheets of thin paper, which I interleaved at the

proper places. Having at length completed this work for

all the flowering plants and ferns, and also the genera of

mosses and the main divisions of the lichens and fungi, I

took back the volume of Loudon, and set to work with

increased ardour to make out all the species of plants I could

find. This was very interesting and quite a new experience

for me, and though in some cases I could not decide to which

of two or three species my plant belonged, yet a considerable

number could be determined without any doubt whatever.

     This also gave me a general interest in plants, and a

catalogue published by a great nurseryman in Bristol, which

David Rees got from the gardener, was eagerly read,

especially when I found it contained a number of tropical
orchids, of whose wonderful variety and beauty I had

obtained some idea from the woodcuts in Loudon's Encyclo

paedia. The first epiphytal orchid I ever saw was at a flowershow

in Swansea, where Mr. J. Dillwyn Llewellyn exhibited a plant

of Epidendrum fragrans, one of the less attractive kinds, but

which yet caused in me a thrill of enjoyment which no other

plant in the show produced. My interest in this wonderful

order of plants was further enhanced by reading in the
Gardener's Chronicle an article by Dr. Lindley on one of the
London flower shows, where there was a good display of

orchids, in which, after enumerating a number of the species,

he added, "and Dendrobium Devonianum, too delicate and

beautiful for a flower of earth." This and other references to

xiii]  GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH  195

and descriptions of them gave them, in my mind, a weird and

mysterious charm, which was extended even to our native

species, and which, I believe, had its share in producing that

longing for the tropics which a few years later was satisfied
in the equatorial forests of the Amazon.

    But I soon found that by merely identifying the plants I
found in my walks I lost much time in gathering the same

species several times, and even then not being always quite

sure that I had found the same plant before. I therefore

began to form a herbarium, collecting good specimens and

drying them carefully between drying papers and a couple
of boards weighted with books or stones. My brother,
however, did not approve of my devotion to this study,

even though I had absolutely nothing else to do, nor did he

suggest any way in which I could employ my leisure more
 profitably. He said very little to me on the subject beyond

 a casual remark, but a letter from my mother showed me

that he thought I was wasting my time. Neither he nor I

 could foresee that it would have any effect on my future life,

 and I myself only looked upon it as an intensely interesting

 occupation for time that would be otherwise wasted. Even

 when we were busy I had Sundays perfectly free, and used

 then to take long walks over the mountains with my collect

ing box, which I brought home full of treasures. I first
 named the species as nearly as I could do so, and then laid
 them out to be pressed and dried. At such times I ex

 perienced the joy which every discovery of a new form of life
 gives to the lover of nature, almost equal to those raptures
 which I afterwards felt at every capture of new butterflies on
 the Amazon, or at the constant stream of new species of birds,
 beetles, and butterflies in Borneo, the Moluccas, and the Aru

 Islands.

     It must be remembered that my ignorance of plants at
 this time was extreme. I knew the wild rose, bramble, haw

 thorn, buttercup, poppy, daisy, and foxglove, and a very

 few others equally common and popular, and this was all.

 I knew nothing whatever as to genera and species, nor of the

 large numbers of distinct forms related to each other and

196  MY LIFE  [Chap.

grouped into natural orders. My delight, therefore, was great

when I was now able to identify the charming little eyebright,

the strange-looking cow-wheat and louse-wort, the handsome
mullein and the pretty creeping toad-flax, and to find that all
of them as well as the lordly foxglove, formed parts of one

great natural order, and that under all their superficial
diversity of form there was a similarity of structure which,
when once clearly understood, enabled me to locate each
fresh species with greater ease. The Crucifers, the Pea tribe,

the Umbelliferae, the Composita£,and the Labiates offered great

Idifficulties, and it was only after repeated efforts that was

able to name with certainty a few of the species, after which
each additional discovery became a little less difficult, though

the time I gave to the study before I left England was not

sufficient for me to acquaint myself with more than a moderate

proportion of the names of the species I collected.

    Now, I have some reason to believe that this was the

turning-point of my life, the tide that carried me on, not to

fortune but to whatever reputation I have acquired, and

which has certainly been to me a never-failing source of

much health of body and supreme mental enjoyment. If my

brother had had constant work for me so that I never had an

idle day, and if I had continued to be similarly employed
after I became of age, I should most probably have become

entirely absorbed in my profession, which, in its various de

partments, I always found extremely interesting, and should

therefore not have felt the need of any other occupation or

study.

    I know now, though I was ignorant of it at the time, that

my brother's life was a very anxious one, that the difficulty
of finding remunerative work was very great, and that he
was often hard pressed to earn enough to keep us both in the
very humble way in which we lived. He never alluded to

this that I can remember, nor did I ever hear how much our

board and lodging cost him, nor ever saw him make the

weekly or monthly payments. During the seven years I was
with him I hardly ever had more than a few shillings for

xni]  GLAMORGANSHIRE: NEATH                       19;

personal expenses ; but every year or two, when I went home,

what new clothes were absolutely necessary were provided

for me, with perhaps ten shillings or a pound as pocket-
money till my next visit, and this, I think, was partly or
wholly paid out of the small legacy left me by my grand
father. This seemed very hard at the time, but I now see

clearly that even this was useful to me, and was really an
important factor in moulding my character and determining
my work in life. Had my father been a moderately rich

man and had supplied me with a good wardrobe and ample

pocket-money ; had my brother obtained a partnership in

some firm in a populous town or city, or had established

himself in his profession, I might never have turned to nature

 as the solace and enjoyment of my solitary hours, my whole

life would have been differently shaped, and though I should,

 no doubt, have given some attention to science, it seems very

unlikely that I should have ever undertaken what at that

 time seemed rather a wild scheme, a journey to the almost
 unknown forests of the Amazon in order to observe nature

 and make a living by collecting. All this may have been
 pure chance, as I long thought it was, but of late years I am
 more inclined to Hamlet's belief, when he said--

      " There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
        Rough-hew them how we will."

Of course, I do not adopt the view that each man's life, in

all its details, is guided by the Deity for His special ends.

That would be, indeed, to make us all conscious automata,
puppets in the hands of an all-powerful destiny. But, as

I shall show later on, I have good reasons for the belief that,

just as our own personal influence and expressed or unseen
guidance is a factor in the life and conduct of our children,

and even of some of our friends and acquaintances, so we are
surrounded by a host of unseen friends and relatives who
have gone before us, and who have certain limited powers of

influencing, and even, in particular cases, almost of determining,
the actions of living persons, and may thus in a great variety
of indirect ways modify the circumstances and character of

198                        MY LIFE          [Chap. XIII]

any one or more individuals in whom they are specially

interested. But a great number of these occurrences in every

one's life are apparently what we term chance, and even if all
are so, the conclusion I wish to lay stress upon is not affected.
It that many of the conditions and circumstances that
I
         is,constitute our environment, though at the time they may

seem unfortunate or even unjust, yet are often more truly

beneficial than those which we should consider more favour

able. Sometimes they only aid in the formation of character
                                            a
sometimes they also lead to action which gives scope for the;

use of what might have been dormant or unused faculties (as,

   think, has occurred in my own case) but much moreI is ;
frequently they seem to us wholly injurious, leading to life

of misery or crime, and turning what in themselves are good

faculties to evil purposes. When this occurs in any large

number of cases, as certainly does with us now, we may be
                       it

sure that     I it     the system of society that at fault, and the

most strenuous efforts of all who see this should be devoted,is

not to the mere temporary alleviation of the evils due to  is it

but to the gradual modification of the system itself. This

my present view. At the time of which am now writing,

I  had not begun even to think of these matters, although

facts which now see to be of great importance in connection

with them were being slowly accumulated for use in after

years.

                    CHAPTER XIV

             FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS

It was during the time that I was most occupied out of

doors with the observation and collection of plants that I

began to write down, more or less systematically, my ideas

on various subjects that interested me. Three of these early

attempts have been preserved and are now before me. They

all bear dates of the autumn or winter of 1843, when I was

between nineteen and twenty years of age.
     One of these is a rough sketch of a popular lecture on

Botany, addressed to an audience supposed to be as ignorant
as I was myself when I began to observe our native flowers.
I was led to write
iIf I                                         partly on account of the difficulties
                                 a
                                       a
                                         it,
   myself had felt in obtaining the kind of information
                                                   II
                                                                  I
required, but chiefly on account of a lecture had attended

at Neath by  local botanist of some repute, and which

seemed to me so meagre, so uninteresting, and so utterly

unlike what such lecture ought to be, that wanted to try

   could not do something better. The lecture in question

consisted in an enumeration of the whole series of the
" Linnaean Classes and Orders," stating their characters and

naming few of the plants comprised in each. It was illus
   a
       a
trated by series of coloured figures on cards about the size

of ordinary playing cards, which the lecturer held up one

after the other to show what he was talking about. The

Linnaean system was upheld as being far the most useful as

a  means of determining the names of plants, and the natural

system was treated as quite useless for beginners, and only

suited for experienced botanists.

                                              199

200              MY LIFE                            [Chap.

    All this was so entirely opposed to views I had already
formed, that I devoted a large portion of my lecture to the

question of classification in general, showed that any classifi

cation, however artificial, was better than none, and that

Linnaeus made a great advance when he substituted generic

and specific names for the short Latin descriptions of species

before used, and by classifying all known plants by means of
Ia few well-marked and easily observed characters.
                                                    then

showed how and why this classification was only occasionally,

and as it were accidentally, a natural one ; that in a vast

number of cases it grouped together plants which were

essentially unlike each other ; and that for all purposes, except
the naming of species, it was both useless and inconvenient.

I then showed what the natural system of classification

really was, what it aimed at, and the much greater interest

it gave to the study of botany. I explained the principles on

which the various natural orders were founded, and showed

how often they gave us a clue to the properties of large

groups of species, and enabled us to detect real affinities under

very diverse external forms.

    I concluded by passing in review some of the best marked

orders as illustrating these various features. Although

crudely written and containing some errors, I still think

it would serve as a useful lecture to an audience generally

ignorant of the whole subject, such as the young mechanics

of a manufacturing town. Its chief interest to me now

is,that          shows my early bent towards classification, not
         a

             it
the highly elaborate type that seeks to divide and subdivide

under different headings with technical names, rendering the

whole scheme difficult to comprehend, and being in most

cases hindrance rather than an aid to the learner, but
                                    if

                                                             a

                                                                            It a
simple and intelligible classification which recognizes and

defines all great natural groups, and does not needlessly
multiply them on account of minute technical differences.

has always seemed to me that the natural orders of flower

ing plants afford one of the best,  not the very best, example
of such classification.
It
        this attraction to classification, not as metaphysically
    is
       a

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS

complete system, but as an aid to the comprehension of

aa subject, which                      think, one of the chief causes of the
                          a

                                  is,

                         I
success of my books, in almost all of which have aimed at
                                       a

                                             I
                                                I
simple and intelligible rather than strictly logical arrange

ment of the subject-matter.

     Another lecture, the draft for which prepared pretty
fully, was on rather wider subject --" The Advantages of
Varied Knowledge" -- in opposition to the idea that was
                                                                                        it
better to learn one subject thoroughly than to know some
                                                                                            I
thing of many subjects. In the case of business or pro
                                       a

fession, something may be said for the latter view, but

treated as purely personal matter which led to the culti
         it
            a

                  a
vation of variety of faculties, and gave pleasurable occupa

tion throughout life. A few extracts may, perhaps, be

permitted from this early attempt. Speaking of a general

acquaintance with history, biography, art, and science, say,
" There                                it
                                           is

                                                          I
         is  an intrinsic value to ourselves in these varied

branches of knowledge, so much indescribable pleasure in

their possession, so much do they add to the enjoyment of

every moment of our existence, that    impossible to esti

mate their value, and we would hardly accept boundless

wealth, at the cost,                   were possible, of their irrecoverable
             if
loss. And
                 it
                      is

                      if

                            it
                      thus we feel as to our general store of

mental acquirements, still more do we appreciate the value

of any particular branch of study we may ardently pursue.

What pleasure would remain for the enthusiastic artist were
he forbidden to gaze upon the face of nature, and transfer

her loveliest scenes to his canvas or for the poet were the
                     ?
                                                               ?

                                                                                     ?
means denied him to rescue from oblivion the passing visions

of his imagination or to the chemist were he snatched from

his laboratory ere some novel experiment were concluded, or

some ardently pursued theory confirmed or to any of us

were we compelled to forego some intellectual pursuit that

was bound up with our every thought? And here we see

the advantage possessed by him whose studies have been in

various directions, and who at different times has had many

different pursuits, for whatever may happen, he will always

202  MY LIFE  [Chap.

find something in his surroundings to interest and instruct

him."

    And further on, as illustrations of the interest in common
things conferred by a knowledge of the elementary laws of
physical science, I remark --

     "Many who marvel at the rolling thunder care not to
inquire what causes the sound which is heard when a tightly-

fitting cork is quickly drawn from a bottle, or when a whip is
cracked, or a pistol fired ; and while they are struck with awe
and admiration at the dazzling lightning, look upon the

sparks drawn from a cat's back on a frosty evening and the

slight crackle that accompanies them as being only fit to
amuse a child ; yet in each case the cause of the trifling and
of the grand phenomena are the same. He who has extended
his inquiries into the varied phenomena of nature learns to

despise no fact, however small, and to consider the most

apparently insignificant and common occurrences as much in
need of explanation as those of a grander and more imposing
character. He sees in every dewdrop trembling on the grass

causes at work analogous to those which have produced the
spherical figure of the earth and planets ; and in the beautiful
forms of crystallization on his window-panes on a frosty
morning he recognizes the action of laws which may also
have a part in the production of the similar forms of plants
and of many of the lower animal types. Thus the simplest

facts of everyday life have to him an inner meaning, and he

sees that they depend upon the same general laws as those
that are at work in the grandest phenomena of nature."

    I then pass in review the chief arts and sciences, showing

their inter-relations and unsolved problems ; and in remark
ing on the Daguerrotype, then the only mode of photographic
portraiture, I make a suggestion that, though very simple,

has not yet been carried out. It is as follows :--
    " It would be a curious and interesting thing to have a

series of portraits taken of a person each successive year.

These would show the gradual changes from childhood to

old age in a very striking manner ; and if a number of such

series from different individuals were obtained, and a brief

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS

outline given of their lives during each preceding year, we
should have materials not merely for the curious to gaze at,
but which might elucidate the problem of how far the mind
reacts upon the countenance. We should see the effects of
pain or pleasure, of idleness or activity, of dissipation or study,
and thus watch the action of the various passions of the
mind in modifying the form of the body, and particularly the
expression of the features."

     Now that photography is so widespread and so greatly
improved, it is rather curious that nothing of this kind has
been done. Some of our numerous scientific societies might
offer to take such photographs of any of their members who
would agree to be taken regularly, and would undertake to
have one or two of their children similarly taken till they
came of age, and also to prepare a very short record each

year of the main events or occupations of their lives. If this

were widely done in every part of the country, a most in
teresting and instructive collection of those series which were
most complete would be obtained. I have given the con
cluding passage of the lecture as it appears in the rough

draft, which never got rewritten.
     " Can we believe that we are fulfilling the purpose of our

existence while so many of the wonders and beauties of the
creation remain unnoticed around us ? While so much of

the mystery which man has been able to penetrate, however
imperfectly, is still all dark to us ? While so many of the

laws which govern the universe and which influence our lives
are, by us, unknown and uncared for ? And this not because

we want the power, but the will, to acquaint ourselves with
them. Can we think it right that, with the key to so much
that we ought to know, and that we should be the better for

knowing, in our possession, we seek not to open the door, but
allow this great store of mental wealth to lie unused, pro

ducing no return to us, while our highest powers and capacities
rust for want of use ?

     " It is true that man is still, as he always has been, subject

to error ; his judgments are often incorrect, his beliefs false,
his opinions changeable from age to age. But experience of

204  MY LIFE  [Chap.

 error is his best guide to truth, often dearly bought, and,

 therefore, the more to be relied upon. And what is it but
 the accumulated experience of past ages that serves us as a
 beacon light to warn us from error, to guide us in the way of
 truth. How little should we know had the knowledge acquired
 by each preceding age died with it ! How blindly should we

 grope our way in the same obscurity as did our ancestors,

 pursue the same phantoms, make the same fatal blunders,
 encounter the same perils, in order to purchase the same

 truths which had been already acquired by the same process,

and lost again and again in bygone ages 1 But the wonder

working press prevents this loss ; truths once acquired are
treasured up by it for posterity, and each succeeding genera
tion adds something to the stock of acquired knowledge, so
that our acquaintance with the works of nature is ever in
creasing, the range of our inquiries is extended each age, the

power of mind over matter becomes, year by year, more com
plete. Yet our horizon ever widens, the limits to our advance
seem more distant than ever, and there seems nothing too

noble, too exalted, too marvellous, for the ever-increasing
knowledge of future generations to attain to.

     " Is it not fitting that, as intellectual beings with such
high powers, we should each of us acquire a knowledge of

what past generations have taught us, so that, should the

opportunity occur, we may be able to add somewhat, how
ever small, to the fund of instruction for posterity? Shall
we not then feel the satisfaction of having done all in our

power to improve by culture those higher faculties that dis
tinguish us from the brutes, that none of the talents with

which we may have been gifted have been suffered to lie
altogether idle ? And, lastly, can any reflecting mind have

a doubt that, by improving to the utmost the nobler faculties
of our nature in this world, we shall be the better fitted to
enter upon and enjoy whatever new state of being the future
may have in store for us ? "

     These platitudes are of no particular interest, except as
showing the bent of my mind at that period, and as indicating
a disposition for discursive reading and study, which has been

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS 205

a great advantage to myself, and which has enabled me to

write on a variety of subjects without committing any very

grievous blunders    (so far   as my critics have pointed  out),  and
                      little  profit to my readers.
with, I hope, some

    The only other subject on which I attempted to write at

this time was on the manners and customs of the Welsh

peasantry as they had come under my personal observa

tion in Brecknockshire and Glamorganshire. I have already

described how I came to take some interest in agriculture

while surveying in Bedfordshire and the adjacent counties,

and this interest was increased by a careful study of Sir

Humphry Davy's "Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry," which

I met with soon afterwards. I was, therefore, the better able

to compare the high-class farming of the home counties with

that of the ignorant Welshmen, under all the disadvantages of

a poor soil and adverse climate, of distant markets, and the

almost entire absence of what the English farmer would

consider capital.

Having lived for more than a year on an average Welsh

farm at Bryn-coch, while we had often lodged with small

farmers and labourers, or at public-houses whose landlords

almost always farmed a little land, I got to know a good

deal about their ways, and adding to this my own observa

tion of the kind of land they had to farm, and the difficulties

under which they laboured, I felt inclined to write a short

account of them in the hope that I might perhaps get it

accepted by some magazine as being sufficiently interesting

for publication. I wrote it out fairly with this intention, and
two years afterwards, when in London, I took it to the editor
of a magazine (I forget which) who promised to look over it.

He returned it in a few days with the remark that it seemed

more suited for an agricultural journal than for a popular
magazine. I made no other offer of
                                  I        and as   it it  was my

                                      it,               is  rather
first serious attempt at writing, though am afraid

dull, present to my readers as one of the landmarks in
I
                      may add that have recently visited
                it

                   I
my literary career.           I

the Upper Vale of Neath, and renewed my acquaintance with

206  MY LIFE  [Chat.

its picturesque scenery. The chief differences that I saw are

that some of the smaller farm houses and cottages are in ruins,

and that the farms seem to be somewhat larger. Where the

ground is fairly level the mowing machine is now used, but in

the condition of the farm-yards and the style of the houses I

see no advance whatever. Some of the old customs have
vanished, for I was unable to obtain any flummery, and on my

inquiry for bake-stone bread I found that it was now rarely
made. A cake was, however, prepared specially for me, but

being made of white American flour it had not the flavour of

Ithat which used so much to enjoy made from the brown

flour of home-grown wheat.

              THE SOUTH-WALES FARMER

                              Introductory Remarks

In the following pages I have endeavoured to give a correct idea of

the habits, manners, and mode of life of the Welsh hill farmer, a class
which,| on account of the late Rebecca disturbances, has excited much
interest. Having spent some years in Radnorshire, Brecknockshire,
Glamorganshire, and other parts of South Wales, and been frequently
in the dwellings of the farmers and country people, and had many
opportunities of observing their customs and manners, all that I here
mention is from my own observation, or obtained by conversation with
the parties. I have taken Glamorganshire as the locality of most of
what I describe, as I am best acquainted with that part and the borders
of Carmarthenshire, where the recent disturbances have been most

prominent.
     Whenever there is any great difference in neighbouring counties I

have noticed it. I may here observe that in Radnorshire the Welsh

manners are in a great measure lost with the language, which is entirely
English, spoken with more purity than in many parts of England, with
the exception of those parts bordering Cardiganshire and Brecknock
shire, where the Welsh is still used among the old people, the River Wye,
which is the boundary of the latter county and Radnorshire, in its
course between Rhayader Gwy and the Hay, also separates the two lan
guages. On the Radnorshire side of the river you will find in nine houses

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS 207

out of ten English commonly spoken, while directly you have crossed
the river, there is as great or a still greater preponderance of Welsh. In
the country a few miles round the seaport town of Swansea most of the
peculiarities I shall mention may be seen to advantage. In the^east and
south-eastern parts of Glamorganshire, called the Vale of Glamorgan, the
appearance of the country and the inhabitants is much more like those of
England. The land is very good and fertile, agriculture is much attended
to and practised on much better principles. This part, therefore (the
neighbourhood of the towns of Cowbridge and Cardiff), is excepted from
the following remarks.

The South-Wales Farmer: His Modes of Agriculture,
          Domestic Life, Customs, and Character.

The generality of mountain farms in Glamorganshire and most other

parts of South Wales are small, though they may appear large when the

number of acres only is considered, a large proportion being frequently

rough mountain land. On the average they consist of from twenty to

fifty acres of arable land in fields of from four to six, and rarely so much

as ten acres ; the same quantity of rough, boggy, bushy, rushy pasture,

and perhaps as much, or twice as much, short-hay meadow, which term

will be explained hereafter; and from fifty to five hundred acres of rough

mountain pasture, on which sheep and cattle are turned to pick up their

living as they can.

Their system of farming is as poor as the land they cultivate. In it

we see all the results of carelessness, prejudice, and complete ignorance.
We see the principle of doing as well as those who went before them, and

no better, in full operation ; the good old system which teaches us not to

suppose ourselves capable of improving on the wisdom of our forefathers,

and which has made the early polished nations of the East so inferior in

every respect to us, whose reclamation from barbarism is ephemeral

compared with their long period of almost stationary civilization. The

Welshman, when you recommend        any   ainmp"roovldemcuesnttomi,n"  his operations,  will
tell you, like the Chinaman, that  it is                                and that what   did

for his forefathers is good enough for him. But let us see if the farmer is

so bad as this mode of doing his business may be supposed to make him.
In his farmyard we find the buildings with broken and gaping doors, and
the floors of the roughest pitching. In one corner is a putrid pond, the

overflowings of which empty themselves into the brook below. Into this

all the drainings from the dungheaps in the upper part of the yard run,

and thus, by evaporation in summer and the running into the brook in

winter, full one-half of the small quantity of manure he can obtain (from
his cattle spending the greater part of their time on the mountain and in

wet bushy pastures) is lost.

The management of his arable land is dreadfully wasteful and injurious.

208                                        MY LIFE                                         [Chap.

Of green crops (except potatoes can be so called) he has not the slightest
idea, and if he takes no more than three grain crops off the land in suc

cession, he thinks he does very well ; five being not uncommon. The first

and principal crop is wheat, on which he bestows all the manure he can

muster, with a good quantity of lime. He thus gets a pretty good crop.
The next year he gets a crop of barley without any manure whatever, and

after that a crop of oats, unmanured. He then leaves the field fallow

till the others have been treated in the same manner, and then returns to

serve it thus cruelly again ; first, however, getting his potato crop before his

wheat. Some, after the third crop (oats), manure the land as well as

they can, and sow barley with clover, which they mow and feed off the

second year, and then let it remain as pasture for some time ; others,

again, have three crops of oats in succession after the wheat and barley,

and thus render the land utterly useless for many years.

   In this manner the best crops of wheat they can get with abundance

of manure, on land above the average quality, is about twenty bushels per
acre --ten bushels
     a
                       is,

                                                                                     ;

                                                      I

                                                                                        a
                     however, more general, and sometimes only seven or

eight are obtained.

     The rough pastures on which the cattle get their living and waste their
manure great part of the time consist chiefly of various species of

rushes and sedges, a few coarse grasses, and gorse and fern on the drier

parts. They are frequently, too, covered with brambles, dwarf willows,

andTahleder"s.short-hay meadows," as they are called, are                                  class of lands

entirely unknown in most parts of England                                shall, therefore, endeavour

to describe them.

   They consist of large undulating tracts of lands on the lower slopes of

the mountains, covered during autumn, winter, and spring with a very
short brownish yellow wet turf. In May, June, and July the various

apnladntfsormform" sinhgortt-hhaisy tu"rf  spring up, and at the end of summer             are mown,
                                           and well deserves the name, for                 frequently
                                         ;                                it
                                                                              is
                                                it                              it
                                                         it                          is

                                                                  a
almost impossible to take up with hayfork, in which case                                   raked

up and gathered by armfuls into the cars. The produce varies from two
to six hundredweight per acre four may be about the average, or five
                                           a
                                                  is ;
acres of land to produce                   ton of hay. During the rest of the year         it
almost good for nothing.                   It astonishing how such stuff can be worth         is

the labour of mowing and making into hay. An English farmer would

certainly not do but the poor Welshman has no choice he must either
     ;                                                                    ;
                                                                                    ;
cut his short-hay or have no food for his cattle in the winter so he setsit,

to, and sweeps away with his scythe breadth which would astonish an
                                                        a
English mower.                                                 is

                                                                    is
                                                                       a
   The soil which produces these meadows                                  poor yellow clay resting

on the rock on the surface of the clay a stratum of peaty vegetable

matter, sometimes of considerable thickness though more generally only

a  few inches, which collects and retains the moisture in most remark
                                                                          a
                                                                              a
able manner, so that though the ground should have very steep slope

the water seems to saturate and cling to like a sponge, so much so that
                                                                     it

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS                                 209

after a considerable period of dry weather, when, from the burnt appear

ance of the surface, you would imagine it to be perfectly free from

moisture, if you venture to kneel or lie down upon it you will almost

instantly be wetted to the skin.

The plants which compose these barren slopes are a few grasses,

among which are   the sweet vernal  cgrriastsasta()A, ntsheovxearanlthCuymperoacdeoarea--tunsip)ecaineds
the crested hair  grass {Kceleria

of carex or sedge which form a large proportion, and the feathery cotton

grass (Eriophorum vaginatuni). The toad-rush (yuncus bufonius) is
frequently very plentiful, and many other plants of the same kind. Several

rare or interesting British plants are here found often in great profusion.

The Lancashire asphodel (Narthecium ossifragum) often covers acres with
its delicate yellow and red blossoms. The spotted orchis {O. maculatd) is
almost universally present. The butterwort {Pinguicula vulgaris) is also

found here, and the beautiful little pimpernel {Anagallis tenelld). The

louseworts (Pendicularis sylvatica and P. palustris), the melancholy

thistle (Cincus heterophyllus), and the beautiful blue milkwort (Polygala

vulgaris), and many others, are generally exceedingly plentiful, and afford

much gratification to the botanist and lover of nature.

The number of sheep kept on these farms is about one to each acre of

mountain, where they live the greater part of the year, being only brought

dhwaoitywhnmthteoeadirtohlwaem"pbawssitluilnrestsuhpepinosrptrthinfergo.wminOttehnrie,rtyhauntndodfroeardgtayianccartettuslern,oeftdepnasootnur raethdeaonzdmeno"ucsnahltovaretisn-

and oxen being sold each year.

The farmers are almost invariably yearly tenants, consequently little

improvement is made even in parts which could be much bettered by

draining. The landlord likes to buy more land with his spare capital (if
he has any) rather than improve these miserable farms, and the tenant is

too poor to lay out money, or if he has it will not risk his being obliged to

leave the farm or pay higher rent in return for his permanently improving

another person's land.

The hedges and gates are seldom in sufficiently good repair to keep

out cattle, and can hardly be made to keep out mountain sheep, who set

them completely at defiance, nothing less than a six-foot stone wall, and

not always that, serving to confine them. The farmer consequently spends

a good deal of his time in driving them out of his young clover (when he
has any) or his wheat. He is also constantly engaged in disputes, and

not unfrequently litigation, with his neighbours, on account of the mutual

trespasses of their stock.

The Welshman is by no means sharp-sighted when his cattle are enjoy

ing themselves in a neighbour's field, especially when the master is from

home, otherwise the fear of the "pound" will make him withdraw them

after a short time.

     On almost' every farm water is very plentiful, often far too much so,
and it is sometimes run over a meadow, but in such a manner as to
lose one-half of the advantage which might be derived from it. The

VOL. I.                                                  P

2IO                             MY LIFE                                                        [Chap.

farmer is contented with merely cutting two or three gaps in the

watercourse at the top, from which the water flows over the field as

it best can, scarcely wetting some parts and making complete pools in

others.

Weeding he considers quite an unnecessary refinement, fit only for

those who have plenty of money to waste upon their fancies--except now

and then, when the weeds have acquired an alarming preponderance over

the crop, he perhaps sets feebly to work to extract the more prominent
after they have arrived at maturity and the mischief is done. His potatoes
are overrun with persicarias, docks, and spurges ; his wheat and barley

with corn cockle, corn scabious, and knapweed, and his pastures with
Ifthistles, elecampine, etc., all in the greatest abundance.
                                                                                               you ask him

why he leaves his land in such a disgraceful state, and try to impress upon
him how much better crops he would have if he cleared he will tell you
                    it,
                                                             is

                                                                         if

                                                                                          it,
that he does not think they do much harm, and that he cleaned them

this year, there would be as many as ever next year, and, above all, that

he can't afford asking you where he to get money to pay people for

doing it.

The poultry, geese, ducks, and fowls are little attended to, being left

to pick up their living as well as they can. Geese are fattened by being

turned into the corn stubble, the others are generally killed from the yard.

The fowls, having no proper places to lay in, are not very profitable with

regard to eggs, which have to be hunted for and discovered in all sorts of

places. This applies more particularly to Glamorganshire, which in
                    is
                      is

                                               a
                                                     it a it

                                                          a is
                                                                            it
                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                          is
                                                                                                           a
g"rSeairt   measure supplied with eggs and     poultry from Carmarthenshire, or
            Gaer " (pronounced there gar), as          called in Welsh, where they

manage them much better.

    If there happens to be in the neighbourhood any one who farms on

the improved English system, has proper course of crops, with turnips,

etc., folds his sheep, and manages things in tidy manner,                                      impossible

to make the Welshman believe that such way of going on pays he will

persist that the man losing money by all the time, and that he only

keeps on because he ashamed to confess the failure of his new method.it
Even should the person go on for many years, to all appearance prosper

ously and in everybody else's eyes be making money by his farm, still the

Welshman will declare that he has some other source from which he

draws to purchase his dear-bought farming amusement, and that the time

will come when he will be obliged to give up and though you tell him
                                         is
                                                    it

                                                              is ;
                                                                            it
                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                  a
that the greater part of the land in England farmed in that manner,

and ask him whether he thinks they can all be foolish enough to go on

l"osthineg  money   year after year, he    still incredulous,   says that he knows
            nature  of farming," and that   such work as       that can never pay.

While the ignorance which causes this incredulity exists,                                      evidently

difficult task to improve him.

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS 211

                         Domestic Life, Customs, etc.

The house is a tiled, white-washed edifice, in the crevices of which wall

rue, common spleenwort, and yarrow manage generally to vegetate, not

withstanding their (at the very least) annual coat of lime. It consists on
the ground floor of a rather large and very dark room, which serves as
kitchen and dining-room for the family, and a rather better one used as a

parlour on high days or when visitors call ; this latter frequently serves
as the bedroom of the master and mistress. The kitchen, which is the
theatre of the Welsh farmer's domestic life, has either a clay floor or one of

very uneven stone paving, and the ceiling is in many cases composed of

merely the floor boards of the room above, through the chinks of which

everything going on aloft can be very conveniently heard and much seen.
The single window is a small and low one, and this is rendered almost

useless by the dirtiness of the glass, some window drapery, a Bible, hymn

book and some old newspapers on the sill, and a sickly-looking geranium

or myrtle, which seems a miracle of vital tenacity in that dark and smoky

atmosphere. On one side may be discerned an oak sideboard brilliantly

polished, on the upper part of which are rows of willow pattern plates

and dishes, in one corner an open cupboard filled with common gaudily-

coloured china, and in the other a tall clock with a handsome oak case.

Suspended from the ceiling is a serious impediment to upright walking in

the shape of a bacon rack, on which   is,
                                                            a
                                                                                         a
                                                                                                      a
                                      perhaps, small supply of that

article and some dried beef, also some dried herbs in paper, large

collection of walking sticks, and an old gun. In the chimney opening

coal fire in an iron grate takes the place of the open hearth and smoky
peat of Radnorshire and other parts. A long substantial oak table,

extending along the room under the window, an old armchair or two, a

form or bench and two or three stools, complete the furniture of the apart

ment. From the rack before mentioned  generally suspended a piece
a
                                         it
                                                          ;

                                                                         is
                                                                                                       is
of rennet for making cheese, and over the mantelpiece                                                      probably a

toasting-fork, one brass and two tin candlesticks, and a milk strainer with
                         on the dresser, too, will be perceived a brush
hole in the bottom of

and comb which serve for the use of the whole family, and which you may

apply to your own head (if you feel so inclined) without any fear of giving

offence.

Upstairs the furniture   is      simple enough two or three plain beds in
                                      :
                                ;
each room with straw mattresses and home-made blankets, sheets beingis

entirely unknown or despised a huge oak chest full of oatmeal, dried

beef, etc., with perhaps a chest of drawers to contain the wardrobe                                        ;
                                                                                                               a

small looking-glass which distorts the gazer's face into mockery of
                                                       a

humanity and plentiful supply of fleas, are all worth noticing. Though
          ;
                      a

the pigs are not introduced into the family quite so familiarly as in
Ireland, the fowls seem to take their place. It
                                                   nothing uncommon

for them to penetrate even upstairs for we were once ourselves much
                                   ;

puzzled to account for the singular phenomenon of finding an egg upon

212                          MY LIFE                                                                            [Chap.

the bed, which happened twice or we might have thought it put there
by accident. It was subsequently explained to us that some persons

thought it lucky for the fowls to lay there : the abundance of fleas was no

longer a mystery. The bed in the parlour before mentioned serves,

besides its ostensible use, as a secret cupboard, where delicacies may be

secured from the junior members of the family. I have been informed
by an acquaintance whose veracity I can rely on (and indeed I should

otherwise find no difficulty in believing                           that one day, being asked to
(a
           it

                                                          is
                                                                       it)

                                                                                             a
                                                                                                             a
take some bread and cheese in a respectable farmhouse, the wheat bread

    luxury) was procured from some mysterious part of the bed, either

between the blankets or under the mattress, which my informant could

not exactly ascertain. The only assistants in the labours of the farm,

besides the sons and daughters,                            generally      female servant, whose

duties are multifarious and laborious, including driving the horses while

ploughing and in haytime, and much other out-of-door work. If you

enter the house in the morning, you will probably see huge brass pan

on the fire filled with curdled milk for making cheese. Into this the

mistress dips her red and not particularly clean arm up to the elbow,

stirring round most vigorously. Meals seem to be prepared solely for

the men, as you seldom see the women sit down to table with them.

They will either wait till the others have done or take their dinner on

their laps by the fire. The breakfast consists of hasty-pudding or

oatmeal porridge, or cheese with thin oatmeal cakes or barley bread,

which are plentifully supplied at all meals, and a basin of milk for each

person for dinner there perhaps the same, with the addition of huge
     ;                       ; is
       a                                                       is

            aI                                                                                                a
dish of potatoes, which they frequently break into their basin of milk

o"rsicecaat nw"ith(prtohneoiur nccheedeseshicacnadti).for  supper, often  milk with flummery or
                                                                          peculiar and favourite
                                                           As this    a

Welsh dish, will describe its composition. The oat bran with some of

the meal left in  it         soaked for several days in water till the acetous
                      is is
fermentation commences                                     then strained oft", producing a thin,
                             ;

                                 it
                                       is
                                                            is
starchy liquid. When wanted for use this                              boiled, and soon becomes

nearly of the consistence and texture of blancmange, of a fine light brown

colour and peculiar acid taste which, though at first disagreeable to

most persons, becomes quite pleasant with use. This                                                             dish in high
                                                                          is
repute with all real Welshman. Each person                                           is
                                                                                           a

                                                                                                     is
                                                                          provided with a basin

of new milk, cold, and a spoon, and large dish of hot flummery set on
                             it
                                        a
the table, each person helping himself to as much as he likes (and that
    often great deal), putting in his basin of milk and
is                                                                    I                                         have no
                                                                                 ;
doubt, very wholesome and nourishing food.                                               it
                                                                                          iIs,
                                                                          must mention that the

women, both in the morning and evening (and frequently at dinner too),is
treat themselves to a cup of tea, which as universal a necessary among
the fair sex here as in other parts of the kingdom. They prefer too,
                                                                          a
without milk, which they say takes away the taste, and as                                                       generally
                                                                              it
                                                                                   a is

                                                                                              it,
made very weak, that may be the case. Once or twice week a piece of

bacon or dry beef            added at dinner or supper, more as relish to

get down the potatoes than as being any food in itself. The beef in

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS 213

particular is so very high-dried and hard as almost to defy the carver's

most strenuous efforts. The flavourit,
                                         is,

                                           it
                                                       a

                                                                                is
                                             nevertheless, at times very fine

when the palate gets used to          though the appearance                         far from

inviting, being about the colour and not far from the hardness of the

black oak table. They generally keep in large chest in oatmeal

(which was before mentioned). Often, when lodging at a little country
inn, have we, when just awake in the morning, seen one of the children

come stealthily into the room, open the lid of the huge chest, climb over

the edge of and, diving down, almost disappear in its recesses, whence,
               it,
after sundry efforts and strainings, he has reappeared, dragging fortha

a piece of the aforesaid black beef, which obtained thus early that
                             ;

                                        it

                                                         ;

                                                       a is
                                                                       is it

                                                                                  is
                                                                                               is, a it
may be soaked few hours before boiling, to render more submissive

to the knife.

From the foregoing particulars        will be seen that these people live

almost entirely on vegetable food. When cow or a pig killed, for

day or two they luxuriate on fresh meat but that the exception, not

the rule. Herrings, too, they are fond of as a relish, as well as cockles

and other indigestible food but neither these nor the beef and bacon

can be considered to be the staple food of the peasantry, which

in one form or another, potatoes, oatmeal, bread, cheese, and milk.

The great consumption of oatmeal produces, as might be expected,

cutaneous diseases, though, generally speaking, the people are tolerably

healthy. They have a great horror of the doctor, whom they never send

for but when they think there  is is  some great danger. So long as the

patienta      free from pain they think all  right. They have not the
          is                                 is
                                                                     is
slightest idea of what an invalid ought to eat. If gruel                 ordered, they

make lumpy oatmeal pudding, to which, however, the sick man will

frequently prefer bread and cheese. When they have gone on in this

way till the unhappy individual in the greatest danger and the medical

attendant insists upon his directions being attended to, they unwillingly

submit and the patient dies, they then impute entirely to the doctor,
         ;                                   it
                                                                      it
                 if

and vow they will never call him in to kill people again.
    As in most rural districts, by constant inter-marriages every family

has a host of relations in the surrounding country. All consider their

duty to attend a funeral, and almost every person acquainted with the

deceased attends as a mark of respect. Consequently the funerals are

very large, often two or three hundred persons, and when the corpse has

to be carried distance, most of them come on horseback, which, with
               a
                          a
the varied colours of the women's dresses and the solemn sounds of a

hymn from a hundred voices, as they wend their way along some lonely

mountainroad, has most picturesque and interesting effect. This large
company generally meet at the house, where provisions are ready for all
who choose to partake of them. The well-known beautiful custom of

adorning the graves with flowers and evergreens much practised.
                               a
                                                             is
When birth takes place in family all the neighbours and relations
         aaa
call within few days to inquire after the health of the mother and child,

and take cup of tea or bread and cheese, and every one brings some

214          MY LIFE                                        [Chap.

present, either a pound of sugar, quarter pound of tea, or a shilling or
more in money, as they think best. This is expected to be returned

wheTnhethe"  givers are in a similar situation.     custom  at a marriage,     is
             bidding," which is a somewhat similar
not quite so general, though it is still much used in Carmarthenshire.
When a young couple are married they send notice to all their friends,

that "on a day named they intend to have a 'bidding,' at which they
request their company, with any donation they may think proper, which

will be punctually returned when they are called upon on a similar occa
sion." At such biddings £10 or ^30 are frequently collected, and some
times much more, and as from various causes they are not called upon

to return more than one-half, they get half the sum clear, and a loan

without interest of the other half to commence life with.

    The national dress or costume of the men (if ever they had any) is
not now in use ; that of the women, however, is still very peculiar. Both

use principally home-made articles, spinning their own wool and sending

it to the factory to be made into flannel or cloth. They also dye the

wool black themselves, using in the operation the contents of certain

well-known domestic utensils, which is kept stewing over the fire some

days, emitting a most unsavoury odour, which, however, they assert to be

very wholesome. The men generally wear a square-cut coat of home

made pepper-and-salt coloured cloth, waistcoat and breeches or trousers

of the same, and a round low crowned hat ; or occasionally fustian trousers

and gay flannel waistcoat with bright metal buttons, coloured necker

chief, home-knit stockings of black sheep's wool, and lace-up boots. Shirts
of checked coarse flannel --cotton shirts and sheets being considered

equally luxurious. One of the most striking parts of the women's dress

is the black beaver hat, which is almost universally worn and is both

picturesque and becoming. It is made with a very high crown, narrow

ing towards the top, and a broad, perfectly flat brim, thus differing

entirely from any man's hat. They frequently give thirty shillings for

one of these hats, and make them last the greater part of their lives. The

body dress consists of what they call a bedgown, or betcown, as it is

pronounced, which is a dress made quite plain, entirely open in front (like
a gentleman's dressing gown), with sleeves a little short of the elbow. A

necessary accompaniment to this is an apron, which ties it up round the

waist. The bedgown is invariably formed of what they call flannel,

which is a stuff formed by a mixture of wool, cotton, and sometimes a

little silk. It is often striped black or dark blue, or brown and white, with

alternate broad and narrow stripes, or red and black, but more frequently

a plaid of several colours, the red and black being wool, the white or blue

cotton, and often a narrow yellow stripe of silk, made in plaid patterns of

every variety of size and colour. The apron is almost always black-and-

white plaid, the only variety being in the form and size of the pattern,

and has a pretty effect by relieving the gay colours of the other part of

the dress. They in general wear no stays, and this, I with the constant

habit of carrying burdens on the head, produces almost invariably an

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS  215

upright carriage and good figure, though rather inclined to the corpulency
of Dutch beauties. On their necks they usually wear a gay silk kerchief
or flannel shawl, a neat white cap under the hat ; laced boots and
black worsted stockings complete their attire. In Carmarthenshire

a jacket with sleeves is frequently worn by the women, in other respects
their dress does not much differ from what I have described.

     The women and girls carry (as before mentioned) great loads upon
their heads, fifty or sixty pounds weight, and often much more. Large
pitchers (like Grecian urns) of water or milk are often carried for long
distances on uneven roads, with both hands full at the same time.

They may be often seen turning round their heads to speak to an

acquaintance and tripping along with the greatest unconcern, but never
upsetting the pitcher. The women are almost invariably stout and
healthy looking, notwithstanding their hard work and poor living. These
circumstances, however, make them look much older than they really

are. The girls are often exceedingly pretty when about fifteen to twenty,
but after that, hard work and exposure make their features coarse, so that
a girl of five-and-twenty would often be taken for nearer forty.

    All, but more especially the young ones, ride most fearlessly, and at
fairs they may be seen by dozens racing like steeple-chasers.

     Many of these farmers are freeholders, cultivating their own land and
living on the produce ; but they are generally little, if any, better off than
the tenants, leaving the land in the same manner, thus showing that it is

not altogether want of leases and good landlords that makes them so,

Ibut the complete ignorance in which they pass their lives.

    All that have hitherto said refers solely to the poorer class, known
as hill farmers. In the valleys and near the town where the land is

better, there are frequently better educated farmers, who assimilate more
to the English in their agricultural operations, mode of living, and dress.

     In all the mining districts, too, there is another class --the colliers
and furnacemen, smiths, etc., who are as different from the farmers in
everything as one set of men can be from another. When times are
good their wages are such as to afford them many luxuries, which the
poor farmer considers far too extravagant. Instead of living on vege

table diet with cheese and buttermilk, they luxuriate on flesh and fowl,

and often on game too, of their own procuring. But in their dress is the

greatest difference. The farmer is almost always dressed the same, except
that on Sundays and market-day it is newer. But the difference between
the collier or furnaceman at his work --when he is half naked, begrimed
from head to foot, labouring either in the bowels of the earth or among
roaring fires, and looking more like demon than man --and on holidays
dressed in a suit of clothes that would not disgrace an English
gentleman, is most remarkable. It is nothing uncommon to see these
men dressed in coat and trousers of fine black cloth, elegant waistcoat,
fine shirt, beaver hat, Wellington boots, and a fine silk handkerchief in
his pocket ; and instead of being ridiculous, as the clumsy farmer would

be in such a dress, wearing it with a quiet, unconcerned, and gentlemanly

2l6           MY LIFE                                          [Chap.

air. The men at the large works, such as Merthyr Tydfil, are more gaudy
in their dress, and betray themselves much more quickly than the colliers
of many other districts.

    It is an undoubted fact, too, that the persons engaged in the collieries
and ironworks are far more intellectual than the farmers, and pay more
attention to their own and their children's education. Many of them
indeed are well informed on most subjects, and in every respect much
more highly civilized than the farmer.

    The wages which these men get -- in good times £2 or £3 per week --

prevents them, with moderate care, from being ever in any great distress.

They likewise always live well, which the poor farmer does not, and
though many of them have a bit of land and all a potato ground, the

turnpike grievances, poor-rates, and tithes do not affect them as com

pared with the farmers, to whom they are a grievous burden, making
the scanty living with which they are contented hard to be obtained.

     The rents, too, continue the same as when their produce sold for
much more and the above-mentioned taxes were not near so heavy. The

consequence is that the poor farmer works from morning to night after
his own fashion, lives in a manner which the poorest English labourer
would grumble at, and as his reward, perhaps, has his goods and stock
sold by his landlord to pay the exorbitant rent, averaging Ss. or 10s. per
acre for such land as I have described.

              Language, Character, etc.

The Welsh farmer is a veritable Welshman. He can speak English

but very imperfectly, and has an abhorrence of all Saxon manners and

innovations. He is frequently unable to read or write, but can some

times con over his Welsh Bible, and make out an unintelligible bill ; and

if in addition he can read a little English and knows the four first rules

of arithmetic, he may be considered a well-educated man. The women

almost invariably neither read nor write, and can scarcely ever under

stand two words of English. They fully make up for this, however, by

a double share of volubility and animation in the use of their own lan

guage, and their shrill clear voices are indications of good health, and

are not unpleasant. The choleric disposition usually ascribed to the

Welsh  it iIs,

                 a
                  it
                         is,

                                  a
                                            a

                                                           is
       think, not quite correct. Words do not often lead to blows,

as they take joke or satirical expression very good humouredly, and

return very readily. Fighting much more rarely resorted to than in

England, and  perhaps, the energy and excitement with which they

discuss even common topics of conversation that has given rise to the

misconception. They have ready and peculiar wit, something akin to

the Irish, but more frequently expressed so distantly and allegorically as

to be unintelligible to one who does not understand their modes ot

thought and peculiarities of idioms, which latter no less than the former

they retain even when they converse in English. They are very proud

of their language, on the beauty and expression of which they will

XIV] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS                                                             217

sometimes dilate with much animation, concluding with a triumphant

assertion that theirs is a language, while the English is none, but merely

a way of speaking.

The language, though at times guttural,              a is,  when well spoken, both

melodious and impressive. There are many changes in the first letters
of words, for the sake of euphony, depending on what happens to precede
them m and for instance, are often changed into (pronounced v
as melin or felin, mill mel or fel, honey. The gender often changed
;                                                           /                   ;
                        b,                                                                   ),
                       a                                          is is
                                         ;

in the same manner, as bach (masculine), fach (feminine), small mawr
(m.),fawr ((.), great. The modes of making the plural to an English

man rather singular, a syllable being taken off instead of being added,

as usually the case with us, as plentyn, child plent, children
is                                                          a                           is :
                                                                   ;
          a
                         ;
mochyn, pig moch, pigs. But in other cases syllable or letter

added.

Their preachers or public speakers have much influence over them.

During  discourse there                        the most breathless attention, and at the
        aa
                              is

                                           is
                                             it
pauses universal thrill of approbation. Allegory their chief speciality,is

and seems to give the hearers the greatest pleasure, and the language

appears well fitted for giving its full effect.
    As might be expected from their ignorance, they are exceedingly

superstitious, which rather increased than diminished in those who are

able to read by their confining their studies almost wholly to the Bible. The

forms their superstitions take are in general much the same as in Scotland,

Ireland, and other remote parts of the kingdom. Witches and wizards

and white witches, as they are called, are firmly believed in, and their

powers much dreaded. There a witch within mile of where amis
                                                            a

                                                                                     I

now writing who, according to report, has performed many wonders. One

man who had offended her she witched so that he could not rise from his

bed for several years, but he was at last cured by inviting the witch to

tea and making friends with her. Another case was of a man driving his

pig to market when the witch passed by. The pig instantly refused to

move, sat up on its hind legs against the hedge in such manner as no
                                                     it
                                                                           a

                                                                          if a
pig was ever seen to do before, and, as could not be persuaded to walk,

was carried home, where soon died. These and dozens of other similar
                               it
stories are vouched for by eye-witnesses, one of whom told me this. Ais

still more extraordinary instance of the woman's supernatural powers

must be mentioned. She                         supposed to have the power of changing

herself into different shapes at pleasure, that of hare seeming to be

with her, as with many other witches, the favourite one, as they delighted              is

in the persecution that harmless animal generally meets with. It

related that one day, being pursued by men and dogs in this shape, the

pursuers came to coal mine the steam-engine of which was in full work,
                            a

bringing up coal. The witch-hare jumped on to the woodwork which

supports the chains, when immediately they refused to move, the

engine stopped, pumps, everything remained motionless, and amid the

general surprise the witch escaped. But the pit could never be worked
again, the pumps and the engine were taken away, and the ruins of the

218                                      MY LIFE                         [Chap.

engine house and parts of the other machinery are now pointed out as

an undoubted and visible proof of the witch's power.

The witch, being aware of her power over the minds of the people,

makes use of it for her own advantage, borrowing her neighbours' horses

and farming implements, which they dare not refuse her.

     But  the   mthoest"  characteristic and  general superstition of this part of the
country     is            corpse candle."     This is seen in various shapes and

heard in various sounds ; the normal form, from which it takes its name,

being, however, a lighted candle, which is supposed to foretell death, by

going from the house in which the person dies along the road where the
coffin will be carried to the place of burial. It is only a few of the most

hardy and best educated who dare to call in question the reality of this

fearful omen, and the evidence in support of it is of such a startling and

voluminous character, that did we not remember the trials and burnings

and tortures for witchcraft and demonianism, and all the other forms of

superstition in England but a few years ago, it would almost overpower

our common sense.

I will mention a few cases which have been told me by the persons

who were witnesses of them, leaving out the hundreds of more marvellous

ones which are everywhere to be heard secondhand.

    A respectable woman, in a house where we lodged, assured us that on

the evening before one of her children died, she saw a lighted candle

moving along about three feet from the ground from the foot of the stairs,

across the room towards her, that it came close up to her apron and then

vanished, and that it was as distinct and plainly visible as the other

candles which were in the room.

Another case is of a collier who, going one morning into the pit

before any of the other men were at work, heard the coal waggons

coming along, although he knew there could be no one then at work. He

stood still at the side of the passage, the waggons came along drawn by

horses as usual, a man he knew walking in front and another at the side,

and the dead body of one of his fellow workmen was in one of the
waggons. In the course of the day he related what he had seen to some

of the workmen (one of whom told me the story), declaring his belief that
the man whose body he had seen would meet with an accident before

long. About a year afterwards the man was killed by an accident in the

pit. The two men seen were near him, and brought him out in the

waggon, and their being obliged to stop at the particular place and

every other circumstance happened exactly as had been described. This

is as the story was told me by a man who declares he heard the prophecy

and saw the fulfilment a year afterwards. When such stories are told

                is,
                                                                                                    it

                                                                                                                           it.
and believed, it of course, useless arguing against the absurdity of

They naturally say they must believe their own senses, and they are not

sufficiently educated to appreciate any general argument you may put to

them.   thTehe"rceansdeleem"s(atso  be   no fixed time within which the  death should
follow                              all  these appearances are called),  and therefore

when a person sees or thinks he sees anything at night, he sets down

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS

as corpse candle, and by the time he gets home the fright has enlarged

it into something marvellously supernatural, and the first corpse that

happens to be carried that way is considered to be the fulfilment of it.
    There is a general belief that if the person who meets a candle imme

diately lies down on his back, he will see the funeral procession with

every person that will be present, and the corpse with the candle in his

hand. There are many strongly authenticated instances of this. One

man, on lying down in this manner, saw that it was himself who carried

the candle in his hand. He went home, went to bed, never rose from
                   a
                                                           a

                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                                      it
                                                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                          it,
but died in week. These and numberless other stories of a similar

character foster the belief in these uneducated people indeed,                         so

general that you can hardly meet person but can tell you of several

marvellous things he has seen himself, besides hundreds vouched for by

his neighbours.
     They have an account of the origin of this warning in the story of an

ancient Welsh bishop, who, while being burnt to death by the Catholics,

declared that his religion was true, candle should precede every death
is
                is
                    a

                  if

                                                          :
                                                                         a

                                                                              is
                                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                            a
in the Diocese of St. David's, going along the exact road the coffin would

be carried. They are very incredulous when you tell them that these

corpse candles are in great repute in Radnorshire, which not in the

Diocese of St. David's, and that there are the same appearances under

different name in Ireland.

    A celebrated astrologer or conjurer, as he called in Carmarthenshire,
   a living proof of the superstition of the Welsh. This man has printed

cards, openly professing to cast nativities, etc., of one of which the
                   literal copy --
following

                            " Nativities Calculated,

" In which are given the general transactions of the native through

life, viz. Description (without seeing the person), temper, disposition,
fortunate or unfortunate in their general pursuits, Honour, Riches,

Journeys and Voyages, success therein, and what places best to travel to

or reside in Friends and Enemies, Trade or Profession best to follow
           ;
             ;

                   if

                                                   :
and whether fortunate in speculations, viz. Lottery, dealing in foreign

markets, &c, &c, &c.
     " Of Marriage, to marry --The description, temper and disposition

of the person from whence, rich or poor, happy or unhappy in marriage,
                   Of children, whether fortunate or not, &c, &c, &c.
&c,"&Dce,du&cce.d  from the influence of the Sun and Moon with the Planetary

Orbs at the time of birth.

    "Also judgment  and     general                   issue in sickness, disease, &c.  By
Henry Harries.
"All letters addressed to him or his father, Mr. John Harries,
Surgeon, Cwrtycadno, must be post paid or will not be received."

is,
     He however, most generally consulted when money, horses, sheep,
etc., are stolen. He then, without inquiring the time of birth or any other

220                                 MY LIFE                          [Chap.

particulars, and without consulting the stars, pretends to know who they

are and what they come for. He however, generally not at home, and
his wife then treats them well, and holds them in conversation till he
                                    y
returns, when he immediately gives them some particulars of the neighis,

bourhood they live in, and pretends to describe the person who stole theis

goods and the house he lives in, etc., and endeavours to frighten the thiefif

by giving out that he will mark him so that everybody shall know him.

In some few cases this succeeds, the person, fearful of the great conjurer's
power, returns the goods, and the conjurer then gets great credit. In

other cases he manages to tell them something which they cannot tell

how he became aware of, and then, even nothing more heard of the
                                                          ;
goods, he still keeps up his fame. Two cases have come under my own
                                                             is
observation, in which the parties have gone, in one case forty the other

sixty miles, to consult this man about some stolen money and though in

neither case was the desired end obtained, they were told so much about

themselves that they felt sure he must have obtained his knowledge by

supernatural means. They accordingly spread his name abroad as a

wonderful  hismahno,usweh,o"  knew  a great deal more than other people. The
name of                       Cwrt
                                    cadno,"  very appropriate, as means in
                                                                 it

English " The Fox's Court."

    Besides these and numberless other instances of almost universal

belief in supernatural agency, their superstition as well as their ignorance

is  further shown by their ascribing to our most harmless reptiles powers

of inflicting deadly injury. The toad, newt, lizard, and snake are, they

imagine, virulently poisonous, and they look on with horror, and will

hardly trust their eyes, should they see them handled with impunity.
The barking of dogs at night, hooting of owls, or any unusual noise,

dreams, etc., etc., are here, as in many parts of England, regarded as

dark omens of our future destiny, mysterious warnings sent to draw aside

the veil of futurity and reveal to us, though obscurely, impending danger,

disease or death.

    Reckoned by the usual standards on these subjects, the religion of

the lower orders of Welshmen may be said to be high in the scale, while

their morality     decidedly low. This may appear         contradiction to
              it
                  is is

                                                                                       it a
                                                                                            is

                                                                                                                                                        ;
some persons, but those who are at all acquainted with mankind well

know that, however luxuriantly religion in its outward forms and influence

on the tongue may flourish in an uncultivated soil,       by no means

necessarily accompanied by an equal growth of morality. The former,

like the flower of the field, springs spontaneously, or with but little care

the latter, like the useful grain, only by laborious cultivation and the

careful eradication of useless or noxious weeds.

    If the number of chapels and prayer-meetings, the constant attendance

on them, and the fervour of the congregation can be accounted as signs

of religion,       here. Besides the regular services on the Sabbath and

on other days, prayer meetings are held early in the morning and late at

night in different cottages by turns, where the uneducated agriculturist or

xiv] FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS

collier breathes forth an extemporary prayer. The Established Church
is very rarely well attended. There is not enough of an exciting character

or of originality in the service to allure them, and the preacher is too

frequently an Englishman who speaks the native tongue, but as a

foreigner.

    Their preachers, while they should teach their congregation moral

duties, boldly decry their vices, and inculcate the commandments and

the duty of doing to others as we would they should do unto us, here, as

is too frequently the case throughout the kingdom, dwell almost entirely

on the mystical doctrine of the atonement --a doctrine certainly not

intelligible to persons in a state of complete ignorance, and which, by
teaching them that they are not to rely on their own good deeds, has the

effect of entirely breaking away the connection between their religion and

the duties of their everyday life, and of causing them to imagine that

the animal excitement which makes them groan and shriek and leap like

madmen in the place of worship, is the true religion which will conduce

to their happiness here, and lead them to heavenly joys in a world to

come.

     Among the youth of both sexes, however, the chapel and prayer
meeting is considered more in the light of a "trysting" place than as a
place of worship, and this is one reason of the full attendance, especially

at the evening services. And as the meetings are necessarily in a thinly

populated country, often distant, the journey, generally performed on

horseback, affords opportunities for converse not to be neglected.

Thus it will not be wondered at, even by those who affirm the con

nection between religion and morality, that the latter
                                             it

                                                      is,

                                                        I
                                                                                   as said before,

at a very low ebb. Cheating of all kinds, when can be done without

being found out, and all the lesser crimes are plentiful enough. The

notoriety which Welsh juries and Welsh witnesses have obtained (not
unjustly) shows how little they scruple to break their word or their oath.

Having to give their evidence through the medium of an interpreter gives

them an advantage in court, as the counsel's voice and manner have not

so much effect upon them. They are, many of them, very good witnesses

as far as sticking firmly to the story they have been instructed in goes,

and returning the witticisms of the learned counsel so as often to afford
much mirth. To an honest jury Welsh case often very puzzling, on
a
     is

                      it

                                                             a
                                                                             a is
account of its being hardly possible to get at single fact but what
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                         is
sworn against by an equal number of witnesses on the opposite side but

to Welsh jury, who have generally decided on their verdict before the

trial commences, does not present any serious difficulty.

The morals and manners of the females, as might be expected from

entire ignorance, are very loose, and perhaps in the majority of cases             a

child born before the marriage takes place.

     But let us not hide the poor Welshman's virtues while we expose his
faults. Many of the latter arise from his desire to defend his fellow

countrymen   from  what  he considers unfair or unjust persecution,                and
many others  from  what  he cannot himself prevent --his ignorance.
                                                                                   He

222  MY LIFE  [Chap. XIV]

 is hospitable even to the Saxon. His fire, a jug of milk, and bread and
 cheese being always at your service. He works hard and lives poorly.
 He bears misfortune and injury long before he complains. The late

 Rebecca disturbances, however, show that he may be roused, and his

 ignorance of other effectual measures should be his excuse for the illegal
 and forcible means he took to obtain redress -- means which, moreover,
 have been justified by success. It is to be hoped that he will not have
 again to resort to such outrages as the only way to compel his rulers to
 do him justice.

     A broader system of education is much needed in the Principality.
 Almost all the schools, it is true, teach the English language, but the
 child finds the difficulty of acquiring even the first rudiments of education

 much increased by his being taught them in an unfamiliar tongue of which
he has perhaps only picked up a few common-place expressions. In

 arithmetic, the new language presents a greater difficulty, the method of
 enumerating being different from their own ; in fact, many Welsh children
 who have been to school cannot answer a simple question in arithmetic till
they have first translated it into Welsh. Unless, therefore, they happen to
be thrown among English people or are more than usually well instructed,
they get on but little with anything more than speaking English, which
those who have been to school generally do very well. Whatever else
they have learnt is soon lost for want of practice. It would be very useful
to translate some of the more useful elementary works in the different

branches of knowledge into Welsh, and sell them as cheaply as possible.

The few little Welsh books to be had (and they are very few) are eagerly
purchased and read with great pleasure, showing that if the means of
acquiring knowledge are offered him, the Welshman will not refuse them.

     I will now conclude this brief account of the inhabitants of so interesting
a part of our island, a part which will well repay the trouble of a visit,
as much for its lovely vales, noble mountains, and foaming cascades, as

for the old customs and still older language of the inhabitants of the little

white-washed cottages which enliven its sunny vales and barren mountain

slopes.

                     CHAPTER XV

          REMARKS ON MY CHARACTER AT TWENTY-ONE

In April, 1843, my father died at Hoddesdon, at the age of

seventy-two, and was buried in the family vault in St. Andrew's
churchyard, Hertford. As my sister's school was not paying
very well, and it was necessary to economize as much as
possible, the house was given up early the following year, my
mother took an engagement as housekeeper in a gentleman's
family at Isleworth, and my sister obtained a post as teacher
at an episcopal college, then just founded by the Bishop of
Georgia (Dr. Elliott), at Montpelier Springs, seventeen miles
from Macon, and left England in August, 1844. In the
following year, at the invitation of the parents of some of the
pupils, she removed to Robinson, near Montgomery, Alabama,
as mistress of a private school much needed in the district ;
and she remained there till she returned to England in 1846.

    Shortly before I came of age in January, 1844, my brother

told me that as he had no work in prospect it was necessary

that I should leave him and look out for myself; so I

determined to go up to London and endeavour to obtain

some employment.

     As the period of my home and school life and subsequent

tutelage under my brother now came to an end, and I had

for the future to make my own way in the world, this affords
a suitable occasion for a brief review of the chief points in my
character, which may now be considered to have been fairly
determined, although some portions of it had not yet had

opportunity for full development. I do not think that at this

                                                                     333

224  MY LIFE                                CChap.

time I could be said to have shown special superiority in any

of the higher mental faculties, but I possessed a strong desire to

know the causes of things, a great love of beauty in form and

colour, and a considerable but not excessive desire for order
Ifand arrangement in whatever I had to do.  I had one

distinct mental faculty more prominent than another, it was

the power of correct reasoning from a review of the known

facts in any case to the causes or laws which produced them,

and also in detecting fallacies in the reasoning of other persons.

This power has greatly helped me in all my writings, especially

those on natural history and sociology. The determination

of the direction in which I should use these powers was due

to my possession in a high degree of the two mental qualities

usually termed emotional or moral, an intense appreciation of

the beauty, harmony and variety in nature and in all natural

phenomena, and an equally strong passion for justice as
between man and man -- an abhorrence of all tyranny, all

compulsion, all unnecessary interference with the liberty of

others. These characteristics, combined with certain favour

able conditions, some of which have already been referred to,

have determined the direction of the pursuits and inquiries in

which I have spent a large portion of my life.
    It will be well to state here certain marked deficiencies

in my mental equipment which have also had a share in

determining the direction of my special activities. My

greatest, though not perhaps most important, defect is my

inability to perceive the niceties of melody and harmony in

music ; in common language, I have no ear for music. But
as I have a fair appreciation of time, expression, and general

effect, I am deeply affected by grand, pathetic, or religious

music, and can at once tell when the heart and soul of the

musician is in his performance, though any number of tech

nical errors, false notes, or disharmonies would pass unnoticed.

Another and more serious defect is in verbal memory, which,

combined with the inability to reproduce vocal sounds, has

rendered the acquirement of all foreign languages very difficult

and distasteful. This, with my very imperfect school training,

added to my shyness and want of confidence, must have caused

xv] MY CHARACTER AT TWENTY-ONE     225

me to appear a very dull, ignorant, and uneducated person to
numbers of chance acquaintances. This deficiency has also

put me at a great disadvantage as a public speaker. I can

rarely find the right word or expression to enforce or illustrate

my argument, and constantly feel the same difficulty in private

conversation. In writing it is not so injurious, for when I
have time for deliberate thought I can generally express
myself with tolerable clearness and accuracy. I think, too,

that the absence of the flow of words which so many writers

possess has caused me to avoid that extreme diffuseness

and verbosity which is so great a fault in many scientific and

philosophical works.

     Another important defect is in the power of rapidly
seeing analogies or hidden resemblances and incongruities,
a deficiency which, in combination with that of language, has

produced the total absence of wit or humour, paradox or

brilliancy, in my writings, although no one can enjoy and

admire these qualities more than I do. The rhythm and

pathos, as well as the inimitable puns of Hood, were the
delight of my youth, as are the more recondite and fantastic

humour of Mark Twain and Lewis Carroll in my old age.

The faculty which gives to its possessor wit or humour is also

essential to the high mathematician, who is almost always

witty or poetical as well ; and I was therefore debarred from

any hope of success in this direction ; while my very limited
power of drawing or perception of the intricacies of form

were equally antagonistic to much progress as an artist or

a geometrician.
     Other deficiencies of great influence in my life have been

my want of assertiveness and of physical courage, which, com
bined with delicacy of the nervous system and of bodily

constitution, and a general disinclination to much exertion,

physical or mental, have caused that shyness, reticence, and
love of solitude which, though often misunderstood and lead

ing to unpleasant results, have, perhaps, on the whole, been

beneficial to me. They have helped to give me those long

periods, both at home and abroad, when, alone and surrounded

only by wild nature and uncultured man, I could ponder at

VOL. L                          Q

226                         MY LIFE                     [Chap.

leisure on the various matters that interested me. Thus was

induced a receptiveness of mind which enabled me at different
times to utilize what appeared to me as sudden intuitions --

flashes of light leading to a solution of some problem which

was then before me ; and these flashes would often come to

me when, pen in hand, I was engaged in writing on a subject
on which I had no intention or expectation of saying anything

new.

     There is one other point in which most of my scientific

friends and readers will hold that I am deficient, but which

in a popular writer on science may be considered to be an

advantage. It that though fond of order and systematic
arrangement of all the parts of subject, and especially of an

argument, am yet, through my want of the language-
           I                   is a
                       is,           a

faculty, very much disinclined to use technical terms wherever

they can be avoided. This                       especially the case when  a

subject elaborately divided up under various subordinate
      is

groups and sub-groups, each with quite new technical name.

This often seems to me more confusing than enlightening, and

when other writers introduce different terms of their own, or

use them in somewhat different sense, or still further sub
           a

divide the groups, the complication becomes too great for the

non-specialist to follow.

      Before leaving the sketch of my mental nature at the

threshold of my uncontrolled life, may properly say few
                            I                           a

                                    aI
                                           I
words on the position had arrived at in regard to the great

question of religious belief.                   have already shown that my

early home training was in thoroughly religious but by no

means rigid family, where, however, no religious doubts were
ever expressed, and where the word " atheist " was used with

bated breath as pertaining to being too debased almost for
               a
                                             a
human society. The only regular teaching received was to
                                                I

                                                     a
say or hear formal prayer before going to bed, hearing

grace before and after dinner, and learning collect every

Sunday morning, the latter certainly one of the most stupid

ways of inculcating religion ever conceived. On Sunday

evenings,  if  we did not go to church or chapel, my father

XV] MY CHARACTER AT TWENTY-ONE  227

would read some old sermon, and when we did go we were

asked on our return what was the text. The only books
                        read on Sundays were the " Pilgrim's Progress "
aolrlo"wePadratdoisbee  Lost," or some religious tracts or moral tales,

or the more interesting parts of the Bible were read by my

mother, or we read ourselves about Esther and Mordecai or

Bel and the Dragon, which were as good as any story book.

But all this made little impression upon me, as it never dealt

sufficiently with the mystery, the greatness, the ideal and

emotional aspects of religion, which only appealed to me

occasionally in some of the grander psalms and hymns, or

through the words of some preacher more impassioned than

usual.

    As might have been expected, therefore, what little religious

belief I had very quickly vanished under the influence of

philosophical or scientific scepticism. This came first upon

me when I spent a month or two in London with my brother

John, as already related in my sixth chapter ; and during the

seven years I lived with my brother William, though the

subject of religion was not often mentioned, there was a per

vading spirit of scepticism, or free-thought as it was then

called, which strengthened and confirmed my doubts as to

the truth or value of all ordinary religious teaching.
     He occasionally borrowed interesting books which I

usually read. One of these was an old edition of Rabelais'

works, which both interested and greatly amused me ; but

that which bears most upon the present subject was a re

print of lectures on Strauss' " Life of Jesus," which had not

then been translated into English. These lectures were, I

think, delivered by some Unitarian minister or writer, and

they gave an admirable and most interesting summary of the

whole work. The now well-known argument, that all the

miracles related in the Gospels were mere myths, which in

periods of ignorance and credulity always grow up around all

great men, and especially around all great moral teachers

when the actual witnesses of his career are gone and his

disciples begin to write about him, was set forth with great

skill. This argument appeared conclusive to my brother and

228                    MY LIFE                               [Chap. XV]

some of his friends with whom he discussed and, of course,
                           I it

                                        it
                                                        it,
in my then frame of mind seemed equally conclusive to

me, and helped to complete the destruction of whatever

religious beliefs still lingered in my mind. It was not till

many years afterwards that saw reason to doubt this whole

argument, and to perceive that  was based upon pure

assumptions which were not in accordance with admitted

historical facts.

     My brother never went to church himself, but for the first

few years was with him he sent me once every Sunday but,
     I                                                                 ;
          I
of course, the only effect of this was to deepen my spirit of

scepticism, as found no attempt in any of the clergymen to

reason on any of the fundamental questions at the root of the

Christian and every other religion. Many of our acquaintances

were either church- or chapel-goers, but usually as matter of
                                                             a
                                                                               it,
form and convention, and, on the whole, religion seemed to

have no influence whatever on their conduct or conversation.

The majority, especially of the younger men, were either

professors of religion who thought or cared nothing about

or were open sceptics and scorners.
     In addition to these influences my growing taste for various

branches of physical science and my increasing love of

nature disinclined me more and more for either the observances

or the doctrines of orthodox religion, so that by the time
     I

                           it,

                                         I
                                                          I
came of age was absolutely non-religious,                    cared and

thought nothing about      and could be best described by
the modern term " agnostic."

The next four years of my life were also of great import

ance both in determining the direction of my activity, and in

laying the foundation for my study of the special subjects

through which have obtained most admiration or notoriety.
     I

                             a
                                                                   it
This period will be dealt with in another chapter, as proved

to be that which, through series of what may be termed

happy accidents, laid the foundation for everything of import

ance that succeeded them.

                     CHAPTER XVI

                             LONDON AND LEICESTER

As I came of age in January, 1844, and there was nothing
doing at Neath, I left my brother about the middle of

December so as to spend the Christmas with my mother and

sister at Hoddesdon, after which I returned to London,

sharing my brother John's lodging till I could find some

employment. At that time the tithe-commutation surveys

were nearly all completed, and the rush of railway work had
not begun : surveying was consequently very slack. As my
brother William, who had a large acquaintance among sur
veyors and engineers all over the south of England, could
not find employment, except some very small local business,

I felt it to be quite useless for me to seek for similar work.
I therefore determined to try for some post in a school to

teach English, surveying, elementary drawing, etc. Through

some school agency I heard of two vacancies that might

possibly suit. The first required, in addition to English,

junior Latin and algebra. Though I had not looked at a
Latin book since I left school, I thought I might possibly
manage ; and as to algebra, I could do simple equations,

and had once been able to do quadratics, and felt sure I

could keep ahead of beginners. So with some trepidation I

went to interview the master, a rather grave but kindly

clergyman. I told him my position, and what I had been
doing since I left school. He asked me if I could translate
Virgil, at which I hesitated, but told him I had been through

most of it at school. So he brought out the book and gave

                                                                     239

230                MY LIFE                              [Chap.

me a passage to translate, which, of couse, I was quite un

able to do properly. Then he set me a simple equation,

which I worked easily. Then a quadratic, at which I stuck.
ISo he politely remarked that required a few months' hard

work to be fitted for his school, and wished me good

morning.

    My next attempt was more hopeful, as drawing, survey

ing, and mapping were required. Here, again, I met a

clergyman, but a younger man, and more easy and friendly

in his manner. I had taken with me a small coloured map
I had made at Neath to serve as a specimen, and also one or
two pencil sketches. These seemed to satisfy him, and as I

was only wanted to take the junior classes in English read

ing, writing, and arithmetic, teach a very few boys survey

ing, and beginners in drawing, he agreed to engage me. I

was to live in the house, preside over the evening preparation

of the   boarders    (about twenty   in number), and    to have, I
think,  thirty or  forty pounds a
Isatisfied.                         year, with which I  was quite

             was to begin work in about a fortnight. My

employer was the Rev. Abraham Hill, headmaster of the

Collegiate School at Leicester.

    I stayed at the school a little more than a year, and

should probably have remained some years longer, and

perhaps even have been a junior school assistant all my
life, but for a quite unexpected event--the death of my

brother William. I was very comfortable at the school,

owing to the kindness of Mr. and Mrs. Hill, and of the

opportunities afforded me for reading, study, and the observa

tion of nature. In my duties I got on fairly well, as the

boys were mostly well-behaved, though, of course, my ignor

ance and shyness led to some unpleasantness. The first
evening I sat with the boys at their work, one of the older

ones came to me to ask me to explain a difficult passage to

him in some classic -- I forget which --evidently to test my
knowledge or ignorance. So I declined even to look at

and told him that taught English only, and that for all
other information they were to go to Mr. Hill himself. On

another occasion the classical assistant master asked me to
                   I

                                                                                              it,

xvi] LONDON AND LEICESTER                       231

take the lowest class in Greek for him, and I was obliged to
tell him I did not even know the Greek alphabet. But these

little unpleasantnesses once got over did not recur. There

were two assistant masters in the school, both pleasant men,

but as they did not live in the house I did not see a great deal
of them. In drawing, I had only beginners ; but I soon found
I had to improve myself, so I sketched a good deal, but could

never acquire the freedom of touch of my brother William,

and before I left, one of my scholars drew very nearly, if not
quite, as well as I did.

   I had a very comfortable bedroom, where a fire was lit

every afternoon in winter, so that with the exception of one

hour with the boys and half an hour at supper with Mr. and

Mrs. Hill, my time after four or five in the afternoon was my
own. After a few weeks, finding I knew a little Latin, I had

to take the very lowest class, and even that required some

preparation in the evening. Mr. Hill was a good mathe

matician, having been a rather high Cambridge wrangler,

and finding I was desirous of learning a little more algebra,

offered to assist me. He lent me Hind's algebra, which I

worked all through successfully, and this was followed by the
same author's trigonometry, which I also went through, with
occasional struggles. Then I attacked the Differential
Calculus, and worked through that ; but I could never fully
Igrasp the essential principle of it. Finally,
                                                began the
Integral Calculus, and here I found myself at the end of my

tether. I learnt some of the simpler processes, but very soon

got baffled, and felt that I wanted some faculty necessary for

seeing my way through what seemed to me an almost track

less labyrinth. Whether, under Mr. Hill's instruction, I

should ultimately have been able to overcome these diffi

Iculties cannot positively say, but I have good reason to
believe that I never should have done so. Briefly stated, just as

no amount of teaching or practice would ever have made me

Ia good musician, so, however much time and study gave
to the subject, I could never have become a good mathe

matician. Whether all this work did me any good or not,

I am rather doubtful. My after-life being directed to

232                MY LIFE  [Chap.

altogether different studies, I never had occasion to use my

newly acquired knowledge, and soon forgot most of the
processes. But it gave me an interest in mathematics which

I have never lost ; and I rarely come across a mathematical

investigation without looking through it and trying to follow

the reasoning, though I soon get lost in the formulae. Still,

the ever-growing complexity of the higher mathematics
has a kind of fascination for me as exhibiting powers of the

human mind so very far above my own.

     There was in Leicester a very good town library, to which

I had access on paying a small subscription, and as I had
time for several hours' reading daily, I took full advantage of

it. Among the works I read here, which influenced my
future, were Humboldt's " Personal Narrative of Travels in
South America," which was, I think, the first book that gave
                   visit the tropics. I also read here Prescott's
me a desire   to
" History of  the  Conquests of Mexico and Peru," Robertson's
" History of Charles V. " and his " History of America," and

a number of other standard works. But perhaps the most

important book I read was Malthus's " Principles of Popula
tion," which I greatly admired for its masterly summary of
facts and logical induction to conclusions. It was the first
work I had yet read treating of any of the problems of philo

sophical biology, and its main principles remained with me

as a permanent possession, and twenty years later gave me
the long-sought clue to the effective agent in the evolution of

organic species.

     It was at Leicester that I was first introduced to a subject
which I had at that time never heard of, but which has played
an important part in my mental growth --psychical research,

as it is now termed. Some time in 1844 Mr. Spencer Hall
gave some lectures on mesmerism illustrated by experiments,

which I, as well as a few of the older boys, attended. I was

greatly interested and astonished at the phenomena exhibited,
in some cases with persons who volunteered from the audi

ence ; and I was also impressed by the manner of the lecturer,

XVI]  LONDON AND LEICESTER  233

which was not at all that of the showman or the conjurer.

At the conclusion of the course he assured us that most

persons possessed in some degree the power of mesmerising
others, and that by trying with a few of our younger friends
or acquaintances, and simply doing what we had seen him
do, we should probably succeed. He also showed us how to

distinguish between the genuine mesmeric trance, and any

attempt to imitate it.

    In consequence of this statement, one or two of the elder

boys tried to mesmerise some of the younger ones, and in a
short time succeeded ; and they asked me to see their experi
ments. I found that they could produce the trance state,

which had all the appearance of being genuine, and also a

cataleptic rigidity of the limbs by passes and by suggestion,
both in the trance and afterwards in the normal waking state.
This led me to try myself in the privacy of my own room,

and I succeeded after one or two attempts in mesmerising

three boys from twelve to sixteen years of age, while on

others within the same ages I could produce no effect, or an

 exceedingly slight one. During the trance they seemed in a
state of semi-torpor, with apparently no volition. They would

remain perfectly quiescent so long as I did not notice them,
but would at once answer any questions or do anything I
told them. On the two boys with whom I continued to
experiment for some time, I could produce catalepsy of any

 limb or of the whole body, and in this state they could do

 things which they could not, and certainly would not have

done in their normal state. For example, on the rigid out

stretched arm I would hang an ordinary chair at the wrist,
and the boy would hold it there for several minutes, while I

 sat down and wrote a short letter for instance, without any

complaint, or making any remark when I took it off. I
never left it more than five minutes because I was afraid that
some injury might be caused by it. I soon found that this

 rigidity could be produced in those who had been mesmerised
 by suggestion only, and in this way often fixed them in any

 position, notwithstanding their efforts to change it. One
 experiment was to place a shilling on the table in front of a

234                           MY LIFE                               [Chap.

boy, and then say to him, " Now, you can't touch that shilling."
He would at once move his hand towards but when half
                                                       it
                                                         I
                                                                         it,

                                                                                  if
way would seem to stick fast, and all his efforts could not
     it
bring  it  nearer, though he was promised the shilling he

could take it.

     Every phenomenon of suggestion had seen at the lecture,

and many others, could produce with this boy. Giving him
a

       iIf
                         it,
                   I
   glass of water and telling him was wine or brandy, he
would drink and soon show all the signs of intoxication,

while      told him his shirt was on fire he would instantly

strip himself naked to get off. also found that he hadif itI

community of sensation with myself when in the trance. If

   held his hand he tasted whatever put in my mouth, and
I                                                      if

                                                         I
the same thing occurred one or two persons intervened

between him and myself; and another person put sub

stances at random into my mouth, or pinched or pricked me

in various parts of the body, however secretly, he instantly

felt the same sensation, would describe and put his hand    it,

to the spot where he felt the pain.

     In like manner any sense could be temporarily paralyzed

so that light could be flashed on his eyes or pistol fireda      a
behind his head without his showing the slightest sign of

having seen or heard anything. More curious still was the

taking away the memory so completely that he could not tell

his own name, and would adopt any name that was suggested

to him, and perhaps remark how stupid he was to have for

gotten     and this might be repeated several times with
        it

             ;
                   ;

                     a

                           is
                               it

                                             ?
different names, all of which he would implicitly accept.
Then, on saying to him, " Now you remember your own
                                                " an inimitable look of relief would
name again what

pass over his countenance, and he would say, Why,
of course," in way that carried complete conviction.
                                                                 I
                                                                         '

                                                                             IP
                                                                                                         ,
     But perhaps the most interesting group of phenomena to

me were those termed phreno-mesmerism.                           had read, when
with my brother, George Combe's " Constitution of Man," with

which had been greatly interested, and afterwards one of
       I

the writer's works on Phrenology, and at the lecture had

xvi] LONDON AND LEICESTER

seen some of the effects of exciting the phrenological organs
by touching the corresponding parts of the patient's head.

But as I had no book containing a chart of the organs, I

bought a small phrenological bust to help me in determining
the positions.

      Having my patient in the trance, and standing close to

him, with the bust on my table behind him, I touched succes

sively several of the organs, the position of which it was easy
to determine. After a few seconds he would change his
attitude and the expression of his face in correspondence
with the organ excited. In most cases the effect was unmis
takable, and superior to that which the most finished actor could
give to a character exhibiting the same passion or emotion.

    At this very time the excitement caused by painless

surgical operations during the mesmeric trance was at its full

height, as I have described it in my " Wonderful Century *
(chapter xxi.), and I had read a good deal about these, and

also about the supposed excitement of the phrenological

organs, and the theory that these latter were caused by
mental suggestion from the operator to the patient, or what
is now termed telepathy. But as the manifestations often

occurred in a different form from what I expected, I felt

sure that this theory was not correct. One day I intended

to touch a particular organ, and the effect on the patient

was quite different from what I expected, and looking
at the bust while my finger was still on the boy's head, I
found that I was not touching the part I supposed, but an

adjacent part, and that the effect exactly corresponded to the

organ touched and not to the organ I thought I had touched,
completely disproving the theory of suggestion. I then tried

several experiments by looking away from the boy's head

while I put my finger on it at random, when I always found

that the effect produced corresponded to that indicated by

the bust. I thus established, to my own satisfaction, the

fact that a real effect was produced on the actions and speech

of a mesmeric patient by the operator touching various parts
 of the head ; that the effect corresponded with the natural
 expression of the emotion due to the phrenological organ

236               MY LIFE  [Chap.

situated at that part -- as combativeness, acquisitiveness, fear,

veneration, wonder, tune, and many others ; and that it was
in no way caused by the will or suggestion of the operator.

    As soon as I found that these experiments were success
ful I informed Mr. Hill, who made no objection to my con

tinuing them, and several times came to see them. He was

so much interested that one evening he invited two or three

friends who were interested in the subject, and with my best

patient I showed most of the phenomena. At the suggestion
of one of the visitors I told the boy he was a jockey, and was

to get on his horse and be sure to win the race. Without

another word from me he went through the motions of get

ting on horseback, of riding at a gallop, and after a minute or

two he got excited, spoke to his horse, appeared to use his

spurs, shake the reins, then suddenly remain quiet, as if he

had passed the winning-post ; and the gentleman who had

suggested the experiment declared that his whole motions,

expressions, and attitudes were those of a jockey riding a

race. At that time I myself had never seen a race. The

importance of these experiments to me was that they con

vinced me, once for all, that the antecedently incredible may

nevertheless be true ; and, further, that the accusations of

imposture by scientific men should have no weight whatever

against the detailed observations and statements of other

men, presumably as sane and sensible as their opponents,

who had witnessed and tested the phenomena, as I had done
myself in the case of some of them. At that time lectures

on this subject were frequent, and during the holidays, which

I generally spent in London with my brother, we took every

opportunity of attending these lectures and witnessing as

many experiments as possible. Knowing by my own ex

perience that it is quite unnecessary to resort to trickery to

produce the phenomena, I was relieved from that haunting

idea of imposture which possesses most people who first see

them, and which seems to blind most medical and scientific

men to such an extent as to render them unable to investigate

the subject fairly, or to arrive at any trustworthy conclusions

in regard to it.

xvi] LONDON AND LEICESTER                     237

    How I was introduced to Henry Walter Bates I do not
exactly remember, but I rather think I heard him mentioned

as an enthusiastic entomologist, and met him at the library.

I found that his specialty was beetle collecting, though he also

had a good set of British butterflies. Of the former I had

scarcely heard, but as I already knew the fascinations of plant
life I was quite prepared to take an interest in any other de

partment of nature. He asked me to see his collection, and

I was amazed to find the great number and variety of beetles,

their many strange forms and often beautiful markings or

colouring, and was even more surprised when I found that

almost all I saw had been collected around Leicester, and that

there were still many more to be discovered. If I had been

asked before how many different kinds of beetles were to be

found in any small district near a town, I should probably

have guessed fifty or at the outside a hundred, and thought

that a very liberal allowance. But I now learnt that many

hundreds could easily be collected, and that there were prob

ably a thousand different kind within ten miles of the town.

He also showed me a thick volume containing descriptions of

more than three thousand species inhabiting the British Isles.

I also learnt from him in what an infinite variety of places

beetles may be found, while some may be collected all the

Iyear round, so I at once determined to begin collecting, as
did not find a great many new plants about Leicester. I

therefore obtained a collecting bottle, pins, and a store-box ;

and in order to learn their names and classification I obtained,

at wholesale price through Mr. Hill's bookseller, Stephen's
" Manual of British Coleoptera," which henceforth for some

years gave me almost as much pleasure as Lindley's Botany,

with my MSS. descriptions, had already done.

This new pursuit gave a fresh interest to my Wednesday

and Saturday afternoon walks into the country, when two or

three of the boys often accompanied me. The most delight

ful of all our walks was to Bradgate Park, about five miles

from the town, a wild, neglected park with the ruins of a

mansion, and many fine trees and woods and ferny or bushy

slopes. Sometimes the whole school went for a picnic, the

238                   MY LIFE                                   [Chap.

park at that time being quite open, and we hardly ever met
any one. After we got out of the town there was a wide

grassy lane that led to which itself was a delightful walk
                      it,
and was good collecting ground for both plants and insects.a
                a
For variety we had the meadows along the course of the littlea

river Soar, which were very pleasant in spring and summer.

Twice during the summer the whole of the boarders were

taken for long day's excursion. The first time we went

to Kenilworth Castle, about thirty miles distant, driving
                                               a
                                                                   a

                                                                         in
coaches by pleasant country roads, and passing through

Coventry. Towards the autumn we had much longer

excursion, partly by coach and partly by canal boat, to very

picturesque country with wooded hills and limestone cliffs,

rural villages, and an isolated hill, from the top of which we

had very fine and extensive view.          think must have
      a                         is               it

been in Derbyshire, near Wirksworth, as thereI   is             long canal
                                                    a

tunnel on the way there. One of the rough out-of-door

sketches made on this occasion     reproduced here on            a

reduced scale, as well as more finished drawing of some

village, perhaps near Leicester, as they may possibly enable

some reader to recognize the localities, and also serve to

show the limits of my power as an artist.

     At midsummer there was the usual prize-giving, accom

panied by recitation and to introduce            little variety
                      ;         I                               a
                                    ;                                   I
wrote prologue, in somewhat boyish style, to be spoken byait
a                                          it a
             a
chubby boy about twelve years old and took me good

deal of trouble to drill him into appropriate emphasis and

action. It went off very well, and as was to some extent

programme as well as prologue, give here as much of              it
a

   I
as can recollect.

                                     Prologue.is

                With Greek and Latin, French, and other stuff,
                And Euclid too, and Algebra enough,
                For this half-year I'm glad to say we've done,
                And the long looked-for hour at length come,
                That brings before us this superb array
                Of company to grace our holiday.

[ To face p. 238, Vol I.


{To face p. 238, VOL. I.


xvi] LONDON AND LEICESTER

We bid you welcome ! and hope each may find

Something we've chosen suited to his mind ;

Our bill of fare contains some curious dishes
To satisfy your various, tastes and wishes.
And first, to show our classic lore, we'll speak
What Sophocles composed in sounding Greek,

Repeat the words his olden heroes said,
And from their graves call back the mighty dead.
Then in Rome's Senate we will bid you stand,
The Conscript Fathers ranged on either hand,
When Cicero th' expectant silence broke,

And cruel Verres trembled while he spoke.
In modern Rome's soft language we'll rehearse

Immortal Tasso's never-dying verse :
In German we've a name you all know well,
The brave, the free, the patriot, William Tell ;
And then, for fear all this dry stuff they'll tire on,
To please the ladies we've a piece from Byron.
 Next, we've the one-legged goose --that rara avis,
 Whose history will be told by Master Davis,

 And Monsieur Tonson's griefs we're sure will call

 A little hearty laughter from you all.

With a few concluding lines which I cannot remember.

    Just before the Christmas holidays (or perhaps on the fifth
of November) I wrote a slight serio-comic play, the subject
being " Guy Faux." While following history pretty closely as
to the chief characters and events, I purposely introduced a

number of anachronisms, as umbrellas, macintoshes, lucifer
Imatches, half-farthings then just issued.
                                            also made use of

some modern slang, and concluded with a somewhat mock-

heroic speech by the judge when sentencing the criminal.

The boys acted their parts very well, and the performance

was quite a success.

    Early in the following year (February, 1846) I received

the totally unexpected news of the death of my brother

William at Neath. He had been in London to give evidence

before a committee on the South Wales Railway Bill, and

returning at night caught a severe cold by being chilled in a

wretched third-class carriage, succeeded by a damp bed at

Bristol. This brought on congestion of the lungs, to which he

speedily succumbed. I and my brother John went down to

Neath to the funeral, and as William had died without a will,

240  MY LIFE  [Chap. XVI]

we had to take out letters of administration. Finding from

my brother's papers that he had obtained a small local business,
and that there was railway work in prospect, I determined to

take his place, and at once asked permission of Mr. Hill to be

allowed to leave at Easter.

    My year spent at Leicester had been in many ways useful

to me, and had also a determining influence on my whole

future life. It satisfied me that I had no vocation for teaching,
for though I performed my duties I believe quite to Mr. Hill's
satisfaction, I felt myself out of place, partly because I knew
no subject --with the one exception of surveying --sufficiently

well to be able to teach it properly, but mainly because a com

pletely subordinate position was distasteful to me, although I

could not have had a more considerate employer than Mr.

Hill. The time and opportunity I had for reading was a

great advantage to me, and gave me an enduring love of good

literature. I also had the opportunity of hearing almost every

Sunday one of the most impressive and eloquent preachers

I have ever met with --Dr. John Brown, I think, was his name.

He was one of the few Church of England clergymen who
preached extempore, and he did it admirably so that it was a

continual pleasure to listen to him. But I was too firmly con

vinced of the incredibility of large portions of the Bible, and of
the absence of sense or reason in many of the doctrines of

orthodox religion to be influenced by any such preaching,

however eloquent. My return to some form of religious

belief was to come much later, and from a quite different source.

      But, as already stated, the events which formed a turning-
point in my life were, first, my acquaintance with Bates, and
through him deriving a taste for the wonders of insect-life,
opening to me a new aspect of nature, and later on finding in

him a companion without whom I might never have ventured

on my journey to the Amazon. The other and equally im

portant circumstance was my reading Malthus, without which

work I should probably not have hit upon the theory of natural

selection and obtained full credit for its independent discovery.

My year spent at Leicester must, therefore, be considered as

perhaps the most important in my early life.

      CHAPTER XVII

      RESIDENCE AT NEATH

At Easter I bade farewell to Leicester and went to Neath

with my brother John, in order to wind up our brother
William's affairs. We found from his books that a con

siderable amount was owing to him for work done during the

past year or two, and we duly made out accounts of all these

and sent them in to the respective parties. Some were paid

at once, others we had to write again for and had some

trouble to get paid. Others, again, were disputed as being an

extravagant charge for the work done, and we had to put

them in a lawyer's hands to get settled. One gentleman,

whose account was a few pounds, declared he had paid           a it,
and asked us to call on him. We did so, and, instead of

producing the receipt as we expected, he was jocose about
    asked us what kind of business men we were to want him
it,

          I
                                 ;

                       I
to pay twice and when we explained that was not shown
                                    it
so in my brother's books, and asked to look at the receipt, he
coolly replied, " Oh, never keep receipts never kept;

                                          a
receipt in my life, and never was asked to pay bill twice till
now " In vain we urged that we were bound as trustees for

the rest of the family to collect all debts shown by my brother's

books to be due to him, and that he did not pay we
                                    it                    it,

                                       if

                                                   it it
should have to lose the amount ourselves. He still maintained

that he had paid that he remembered distinctly, and
      I.                            twice. At last we were
                      a
                          it,

                          if
that he was not going to pay

obliged to tell him that he did not pay we must put            it

in the hands of lawyer to take what steps he thought

VOL.                                241 R

242         MY LIFE                                                  [Chap.

necessary : then he gave way, and said, " Oh, if you are going to

Ilaw about such a trifle, suppose I must pay it again ! " and,
Icounting out the money, added, " There it is ; but paid it

before, so give me a receipt this time," apparently considering

himself a very injured man. This little experience annoyed

me much, and, with others of the same nature later on, so

disgusted me with business as to form one of the reasons

which induced me to go abroad.

     When we had wound up William's affairs as well as we

could, my brother John returned to London, and I was left

to see if any work was to be had, and in the mean time

devoted myself to collecting butterflies and beetles. While

at Leicester I had been altogether out of the business world,
and do not remember even looking at a newspaper, or I

might have heard something of the great railway mania
Iwhich that year reached its culmination.
                                                                     now first heard

rumours of and some one told me of civil engineer in
     I
            it,
                    I
                                       aa

                                     iIf

                                                                  a
Swansea who wanted all the surveyors he could get, and that

they all had two guineas day, and often more. This                   II

could hardly credit, but wrote to the gentleman, who soon

after called on me, and asked me  could do levelling.

told him could, and had very good level and levelling
staves. After some little conversation he told me he wanted

a  line of levels up the Vale of Neath to Merthyr Tydfil for         a

proposed railway, with cross levels at frequent intervals, and

that he would give me two guineas day, and all expenses of
                                  a
chain and staff men, hotels, etc. He gave me all necessary
                                     Ia
instructions, and said he would send surveyor to map the
route at the same time. This was, think, about mid

summer, and was hard at work till the autumn, and enjoyedI
         I
myself immensely. It took me up the south-east side of the

valley, of which knew very little, along pleasant lanes and

paths through woods and by streams, and up one of the

wildest and most picturesque little glens have ever ex
                                         I

plored. Here we had to climb over huge rocks as big as

houses, ascend cascades, and take cross-levels up steep banks

and precipices all densely wooded. It was surveying under

difficulties, and excessively interesting. After the first rough

xvii]  RESIDENCE AT NEATH  243

levels were taken and the survey made, the engineers were

able to mark out the line provisionally, and I then went over

the actual line to enable the sections to be drawn as required
by the Parliamentary Standing Orders.

     In the autumn I had to go to London to help finish the

plans and reference books for Parliament. There were about

a dozen surveyors, draughtsmen, and clerks in a big hotel in
the Haymarket, where we had a large room upstairs for work,
and each of us ordered what we pleased for our meals in the
coffee-room. Towards the end of November we had to work

very late, often till past midnight, and for the last few days of

the month we literally worked all night to get everything

completed.

     In this year of wild speculation it is said that plans and

sections for 1263 new railways were duly deposited, having a
proposed capital of £563,000,000, and the sum required to be
deposited at the Board of Trade was so much larger than the
total amount of gold in the Bank of England and notes in

circulation at the time, that the public got frightened, a panic

ensued, shares in the new lines which had been at a high

premium fell almost to nothing, and even the established lines
were greatly depreciated. Many of the lines were proposed
merely for speculation, or to be bought off by opposing lines
which had a better chance of success. The line we were at
work on was a branch of the Great Western and South Wales
Railway then making, and was for the purpose of bringing the

coal and iron of Merthyr Tydfil and the surrounding district
to Swansea, then the chief port of South Wales. But we had
a competitor along the whole of our route in a great line
from Swansea to Yarmouth, by way of Merthyr, Hereford,

Worcester, and across the midland agricultural counties,

called, I think, the East and West Junction Railway, which

sounded grand, but which had no chance of passing. It

Icompeted, however, with several other lines, and heard that

many of these agreed to make up a sum to buy off its opposi
tion. Not one-tenth of the lines proposed that year were

ever made, and the money wasted upon surveyors, engineers,
and law expenses must have amounted to millions.

244  MY LIFE  [Chap.

     Finding it rather dull at Neath living by myself, I per
suaded my brother to give up his work in London as a
journeyman carpenter and join me, thinking that, with his
practical experience and my general knowledge, we might be

able to do architectural, building, and engineering work, as

well as surveying, and in time get up a profitable business.
We returned together early in January, and continued to

board and lodge with Mr. Sims in the main street, where I

had been very comfortable, till the autumn, when, hearing
that my sister would probably be home from America the
following summer, and my mother wishing to live with us,
we took a small cottage close to Llantwit Church, and less
than a mile from the middle of the town. It had a nice little

garden and yard, with fowl-house, shed, etc., going down to
the Neath Canal, immediately beyond which was the river
Neath, with a pretty view across the valley to Cadoxton and

the fine Drumau mountain.

     Having the canal close at hand and the river beyond, and

then another canal to Swansea, made us long for a small

boat, and not having much to do, my brother determined to

build one, so light that it could be easily drawn or carried

from the canal to the river, and so give access to Swansea.

It was made as small and light as possible to carry two or, at

most, three persons. When finished, we tried it with much
anxiety, and found it rather unstable, but with a little

ballast at the bottom and care in moving, it did very well,

and was very easy to row. One day I persuaded my mother

to let me row her to Swansea, where we made a few pur
chases ; and then came back quite safely till within about a

mile of home, when, passing under a bridge, my mother put

her hand out to keep the boat from touching, and leaning

over a little too much, the side went under water, and upset

us both. As the water was only about two or three feet
deep we escaped with a thorough wetting. The boat was

soon bailed dry, and then I rowed on to Neath Bridge, where

my mother got out and walked home, and did not trust

herself in our boat again, though I and my brother had many

pleasant excursions.

xvii]  RESIDENCE AT NEATH  245

      Our chief work in 1 846 was the survey of the parish of
Llantwit-juxta-Neath, in which we lived. The agent of the
Gnoll Estate had undertaken the valuation for the tithe com
mutation, and arranged with me to do the survey and make
the map and the necessary copies. When all was finished and

the valuation made, I was told that I must collect the pay

ment from the various farmers in the parish, who would after
wards deduct it from their rent. This was a disagreeable
business, as many of the farmers were very poor ; some could
not speak English, and could not be made to understand what
it was all about ; others positively refused to pay ; and the
separate amounts were often so small that it was not worth

going to law about them, so that several were never paid at
all, and others not for a year afterwards. This was another
of the things that disgusted me with business, and made me
more than ever disposed to give it all up if I could but get
anything else to do.

    We also had a little building and architectural work. A

lady wanted us to design a cottage for her, with six or seven

rooms, I think, for £200. Building with the native stone

was cheap in the country, but still, what she wanted was

impossible, and at last she agreed to go to £2 50, and with
some difficulty we managed to get one built for her for this
amount. We also sent in a design for a new Town Hall
for Swansea, which was beyond our powers, both of design

 and draughtsmanship ; and as there were several established

 architects among the competitors, our very plain building and
 poor drawings had no chance. But shortly afterwards a

 building was required at Neath for a Mechanics' Institute,

for which £600 was available. It was to be in a narrow side

 street, and to consist of two rooms only, a reading room and
 library below, and a room above for classes and lectures. We

 were asked to draw the plans and supervise the execution,

 which we did, and I think the total cost dftl not exceed the
 sum named by more than £ 50. It was, of course, very plain,

 but the whole was of local stone, with door and window-

 quoins, cornice, etc., hammer-dressed ; and the pediments over
 the door and windows, arched doorway, and base of squared

246  MY LIFE                                                              [Chap.

blocks gave the whole a decidedly architectural appearance.

It is now used as a free library, and through the kindness of
Miss Florence Neale, of Penarth, I am enabled to give a

photographic reproduction of it.

    This reminds me that the Mechanics' Institution was, I

think, established by Mr. William Jevons, a retired merchant

or manufacturer of Liverpool, and the uncle of William

Stanley Jevons, the well-known writer on Logic and Political
Economy. Mr. Jevons was the author of a work on " Sys
tematic Morality," very systematic and very correct, but as

dry as its title. He had a good library, and was supposed in

Neath to be a man of almost universal knowledge. I think

my brother William had become acquainted with him after I
left Neath, as he attended the funeral, and I and John spent
the evening with him. When I came to live in Neath after
my brother's death, I often saw him and occasionally visited

him, and I think borrowed books, and the following winter,
finding I was interested in science generally, he asked me to

give some familiar lectures or lessons to the mechanics of

Neath, who then met, I think, in one of the schoolrooms.
I was quite afraid of undertaking this, and tried all I could

to escape, but Mr. Jevons was very persistent, assured me
that they knew actually nothing of science, and that the very

simplest things, with a few diagrams and experiments, would

be sure to interest them. At last I reluctantly consented,

and began with very short and simple talks on the facts and

laws of mechanics, the principle of the lever, pulley, screw,

etc., falling bodies and projectiles, the pendulum, etc.

    I got on fairly well at first, but on the second or third
occasion I was trying to explain something which required a
rather complex argument which I thought I knew perfectly,

when, in the middle of
I

                    a

               I

                                               it, it,

                                   II

                                                                    it a

                                                             I
                        seemed to lose myself and

could not think of the next step. After minute's dead
silence, Mr. Jevons, who sat by me, said gently -- "Never

mind that now. Go on to the next subject."                                did so,

and after few minutes, what had forgotten became clear

to me, and returned to and went over with success.

gave these lessons for two winters, going through the



xvii]                          RESIDENCE AT NEATH                                                247

elementary portions of physics ; and after a week in Paris

in 1 847, I gave to the same audience a general account of the

city, with special reference to its architecture, museums, and
gardens, showing that it was often true that " they did these
things better in France." 1

      There was also in Neath a Philosophical Society with a
small library and reading room, in connection with which

occasional lectures were given. Sir G. B. Airy, the Astronomer
Royal, gave a lecture there on the return of Halley's Comet
shortly before we came to Neath. He recommended them

to purchase a good telescope of moderate size and have
it properly mounted, so as to be able to observe all the

more remarkable astronomical phenomena. A telescope was
actually obtained with, I think, a four- or five- inch object

glass, and as there was no good position for it available, a
kind of square tower was built attached to the library, high
enough to obtain a clear view, on the top of which it was pro

posed to use the telescope. But the funds for a proper mount
ing and observatory roof not being forthcoming, the telescope
was hardly ever used, owing to the time and trouble always

required to carry upstairs and prepare for observation any

astronomical telescope above the very smallest size.

   During the two summers that I and my brother John

lived at Neath we spent a good deal of our leisure time in

wandering about this beautiful district, on my part in search
of insects, while my brother always had his eyes open for any
uncommon bird or reptile. One day when I was insect hunt
ing on Crymlyn Burrows, a stretch of very interesting sand
hills, rock, and bog near the sea, and very rich in curious

plants, he came upon several young vipers basking on a rock.

I1 In 1895            received a letter from Cardiff,         from one of the    "woIsrlkamnedn    who
                                                                                                 Life,"
athtteen"deMdalathye   Neath Mechanics'  Institution, asking   if the author of
                      Archipelago," and  other books is the   same Mr. Alfred    Wallace who
                                                                                       writes --
It"auI ghhat vein                                                                  He  class -- if
        the           evening  science classes to the Neath Abbey  artificers.   your
       often            had a  desire to know, as benefited more   while in
you are the same Mr. A. Wallace -- than I ever was taught at school. I have
I Ioften wished knew how to thank you for the good and others received from
your teaching. -- (Signed) Matthew Jones."

248  MY LIFE  [Chap.

They were about eight or nine inches long. As they were
quite still, he thought he could catch one by the neck, and
endeavoured to do so, but the little creature turned round

suddenly, bit his finger, and escaped. He immediately sucked

out the poison, but his whole hand swelled considerably,
and was very painful. Owing, however, to the small size of

the animal the swelling soon passed off, and left no bad effects.
Another day, towards the autumn, we found the rather

uncommon black viper in a wood a few miles from Neath.
This he caught with a forked stick, to which he then tied it
firmly by the neck, and put it in his coat pocket. Meeting a
labourer on the way, he pulled it out of his pocket, wriggling

and twisting round the stick and his hand, and asked the man

if he knew what it was, holding it towards him. The man's
alarm was ludicrous. Of course, he declared it to be deadly,

and for once was right, and he added that he would not carry

such a thing in his pocket for anything we could give him.

     Though I have by no means a very wide acquaintance

with the mountain districts of Britain, yet I know Wales

pretty well ; have visited the best parts of the lake district ;
in Scotland have been to Loch Lomond, Loch Katrine, and
Loch Tay ; have climbed Ben Lawers, and roamed through

Glen Clova in search for rare plants ;--but I cannot call to mind

a single valley that in the same extent of country comprises

so much beautiful and picturesque scenery, and so many
interesting special features, as the Vale of Neath. The town
itself is beautifully situated, with the fine wooded and rock-
girt Drumau Mountain to the west, while immediately to the

east are well-wooded heights crowned by Gnoll House, and
to the south-east, three miles away, a high rounded hill, up
which a chimney has been carried from the Cwm Avon copper-

works in the valley beyond, the smoke from which gives the

hill much the appearance of an active volcano. To the south

west the view extends down the valley to Swansea Bay, while
to the north-east stretches the Vale of Neath itself, nearly

straight for twelve miles, the river winding in a level fertile

valley about a quarter to half a mile wide, bounded on each
side by abrupt hills, whose lower slopes are finely wooded,


[ To face p. 249, Vol. 1.

xvii] RESIDENCE AT NEATH  249

and backed by mountains from fifteen hundred to eighteen
hundred feet high. The view up this valley is delightful,

its sides being varied with a few houses peeping out from the
woods, abundance of lateral valleys and ravines, with here
and there the glint of falling water, while its generally straight

direction affords fine perspective effects, sometimes fading in

the distance into a warm yellow haze, at others affording a
view of the distant mountain ranges beyond.

    At twelve miles from the town we come to the little

village of Pont-nedd-fychan (the bridge of the little Neath
river), where we enter upon a quite distinct type of scenery,
dependent on our passing out of the South Wales coal basin,
crossing the hard rock-belt of the millstone grit, succeeded by
the picturesque crags of the mountain limestone, and then
entering on the extensive formation of the Old Red Sand
stone. The river here divides first into two, and a little

further on into four branches, each in a deep ravine with

wooded slopes or precipices, above which is an undulating
hilly and rocky country backed by the range of the great
forest of Brecon, with its series of isolated summits or vans,

more than two thousand feet high, and culminating in the re
markable twin summits of the Brecknock Beacons, which reach
over twenty-nine hundred feet. Within a four-mile walk of
Pont-nedd-fychan there are six or eight picturesque waterfalls
or cascades, one of the most interesting, named Ysgwd Gladys,
being a miniature of Niagara, inasmuch as it falls over an
overhanging rock, so that it is easy to walk across behind it.

A photograph of this fall is given here. Another, Ysgwd

Einon Gam, is much higher, while five miles to the west, near
Capel Coelbren, is one of the finest waterfalls in Wales, being

surpassed only, so far as I know, by the celebrated falls

above Llanrhaiadr in the Berwyn Mountains. From the

open moor it drops suddenly about ninety feet into a deep
ravine, with vertical precipices wooded at the top all round.
In summer the stream is small, but after heavy rains it must

be a very fine sight, as it falls unbroken into a deep pool
below, and then flows away down a thickly wooded glen to

the river Tawe.

250  MY LIFE  [Chap.

     Within a mile of Pont-nedd-fychan is the Dinas rock,
a tongue of mountain limestone jutting out across the mill
stone grit, and forming fine precipices, one of which was
called the Bwa-maen or bow rock, from its being apparently
bent double. Lower down there are also some curious waving

lines of apparent stratification, but on a recent examination I

am inclined to think that these are really glacial groovings
caused by the ice coming down from Hirwain, right against

these ravines and precipices, and being thus heaped up and

obliged to flow away at right angles to its former course.
      But the most remarkable and interesting of the natural

phenomena of the upper valley is Porth-yr-Ogof (the gate
way of the cavern), where the river Mellte runs for a quarter
of a mile underground. The entrance is under a fine arch
of limestone rock overhung with trees, as shown in the
 accompanying photograph. The outlet is more irregular and

 less lofty, and is also less easily accessible ; but the valley

just below has wooded banks, open glades, and fantastic rocks
 near the cave, forming one of the most charmingly picturesque

spots imaginable. It is also very interesting to walk over the
 underground river along a hollow strewn with masses of rock,

 and with here and there irregular funnels, where the water
 can be heard and in one place seen. The whole place is very
 instructive, as showing us how many of the narrow limestone

 gorges, bounded by irregular perpendicular rocks with no
 sign of water-wear, have been formed. Caves abound in all
 limestone regions, owing to the dissolving power of rain-water
 penetrating the fissures of the rock, and finding outlets often
 at a distance of many miles and then gushing forth in a
 copious spring. Where a range of such caverns lies along an

 ancient valley, and are not very far below the surface, they in
 time fall in, and, partially blocking up the drainage, cause the

 caverns to be filled up and still further enlarged. In time

 the fallen portion is dissolved and worn away, other portions
 fall in, and in course of ages an open valley is formed,

 bounded by precipices with fractured surfaces, and giving the
 idea of their being rent open by some tremendous convulsion
 of nature--a favourite expression of the old geologists.

PORTH-VR-OGOF, VALE OK NEATH.

                                     [Toface p. 250, Vol. I.




xvii] RESIDENCE AT NEATH                                251

     I have  already   (in chap, xi.) described one of  the curious
" standing   stones "                                     river, but
                       near the source of the Llia

there is a still more interesting example about a mile and a
half north-west of Ystrad-fellte, where the old Roman road --
the Saru Helen --crosses over the ridge between the Nedd

and the Llia valleys. This is a tall, narrow stone, roughly

quadrilateral, on one of the faces of which there is a rudely

inscribed Latin inscription, as seen in the photograph, and in
copy of the letters given opposite. It reads as follows :--

             DERVACI FILIUS JUSTI IC IACIT

meaning     [The  body] of Dervacus the son     of  Justus lies here.
                                                in  Dervaci, and the
It will be  seen  that the letters D, A, and I
T and I in Justi are inverted or reversed, probably indicating

that the cutting was done by an illiterate workman, who

placed them as most convenient when working on an erect

stone. The stone itself is probably British, and was utilized

as a memorial of a Roman soldier who died near the place.

     One of our most memorable excursions was in June, 1846,

when I and my brother spent the night in this water-cave.
I wanted to go again to the top of the Beacons to see if I

could find any rare beetles there, and also to show my

brother the waterfalls and other beauties of the upper valley.

Starting after an early breakfast we walked to Pont-nedd-

fychan, and then turned up the western branch to the Rocking

Stone, a large boulder of millstone-grit resting on a nearly

level surface, but which by a succession of pushes with one

hand can be made to rock considerably. It was here I

obtained one of the most beautiful British beetles, Trichius

fasciatus, the only time I ever captured it. We then went on

to the Gladys and Einon Gam falls; then, turning back

followed up the river Nedd for some miles, crossed over to

the cavern, and then on to Ystrad-fellte, where we had supper

and spent the night, having walked leisurely about eighteen

or twenty miles.

The next morning early we proceeded up the valley to

the highest farm on the Dringarth, then struck across the

mountain to the road from Hirwain to Brecon, which we

252  MY LIFE  [Chap.

 followed to the bridge over the Taff, and then turned off

 towards the Beacons, the weather being perfect. It was a

 delightful walk, on a gradual slope of fifteen hundred feet in
 a mile and a half, with a little steeper bit at the end, and the
 small overhanging cap of peat at the summit, as already

 described in chapter xi. I searched over it for beetles,

 which were, however, very scarce, and we then walked along

 the ridge to the second and higher triangular summit, peeped

 with nervous dread on my part over the almost perpendicular

 precipice towards Brecon, noted the exact correspondence
 in slope of the two peat summits, and then back to the ridge
and a little way down the southern slope to where a tiny spring

trickles out --the highest source of the river Taff--and there,
 lying on the soft mountain turf, enjoyed our lunch and the

 distant view over valley and mountain to the faint haze
of the British Channel. We then returned to the western
summit, took a final view of the grand panorama around us,
and bade farewell to the beautiful mountain, the summit of

which neither of us visited again, though I have since been

very near it. We took nearly the same route back, had a
substantial tea at the little inn at Ystrad-fellte, and then,

about seven o'clock, walked down to the cave to prepare our
quarters for the night. I think we had both of us at this

time determined, if possible, to go abroad into more or less
wild countries, and we wanted for once to try sleeping

out-of-doors, with no shelter or bed but what nature provided.
     Just inside the entrance of the cave there are slopes of

water-worn rock and quantities of large pebbles and boulders,

and here it was quite dry, while farther in, where there were
patches of smaller stones and sand, it was much colder and
quite damp, so our choice of a bed was limited to rock or

boulders. We first chose a place for a fire, and then searched
for sufficient dead or dry wood to last us the night. This
took us a good while, and it was getting dusk before we lit
our fire. We then sat down, enjoying the flicker of the flame
on the roof of the cavern, the glimmer of the stars through
the trees outside, and the gentle murmur of the little river
beside us. After a scanty supper we tried to find a place

xvii]  RESIDENCE AT NEATH  253

where we could sleep with the minimum of discomfort, but
with very little success. We had only our usual thin summer
clothing, and had nothing whatever with us but each a small
satchel, which served as a pillow. As the cave faces north

the rocky floor had not been warmed by the sun, and struck

cold through our thin clothing, and we turned about in vain
for places where we could fit ourselves into hollows without
feeling the harsh contact of our bones with the rock or

pebbles. I found it almost impossible to lie still for half an

hour without seeking a more comfortable position, but the
change brought little relief. Being midsummer, there were
no dead leaves to be had, and we had no tool with which to

cut sufficient branches to make a bed. But I think we had

determined purposely to make no preparation, but to camp

out just as if we had come accidentally to the place in an

unknown country, and had been compelled to sleep there.

But very little sleep was to be had, and while in health I
have never passed a more uncomfortable night. Luckily it

was not a long one, and before sunrise we left our gloomy

bedroom, walked up to the main road to get into the sun

shine, descended into the Nedd valley and strolled along,
enjoying the fresh morning air and warm sun till we neared
Pont-nedd-fychan, when, finding a suitable pool, we took a
delightful and refreshing bath, dried our bodies in the sun,

and then walked on to the little inn, where we enjoyed our
ample dish of eggs and bacon, with tea, and brown bread-
and-butter. We then walked slowly on, collecting and ex

ploring by paths and lanes and through shady woods on the
south bank of the river, till we reached our lodgings at Neath,

having thoroughly enjoyed our little excursion.

    A few months later one of our walks had a rather serious

sequel. We started after breakfast one fine Sunday morning
for a walk up the Dulais valley, returning by Pont-ar-dawe,

and about four in the afternoon found ourselves near my
old lodgings at Bryn-coch. We accordingly went in and, of
course, were asked to stay to tea, which was just being got
ready. The Misses Rees, with their usual hospitality, made
a huge plate of buttered toast with their home-made bread

254            MY LIFE                                     [Chap.

which was very substantial, and, being very hungry after our

long walk, we made a hearty meal of it. My brother felt no

ill effects from this, but in my case it brought on a severe

attack of inflammation of the stomach and bowels, which

kept me in bed some weeks, and taught me not to overtax

my usually good digestion.

    During my residence at Neath I kept up some correspon

dence with H. W. Bates, chiefly on insect collecting. We

Iexchanged specimens, and, think in the summer of 1847,

he came on a week's visit, which we spent chiefly in beetle-

collecting and in discussing various matters, and it must have

been at this time that we talked over a proposed collecting

journey to the tropics, but had not then decided where to go.

Mr. Bates' widow having kindly returned to me such of my
letters as he had preserved, I find in them some references to

the subjects in which I was then interested. I will, therefore,

here give a few extracts from them.

     In a letter written November 9, I finish by asking:
" Have you
Creation,' or    read ' Vestiges    of  ?  the    Natural  History of
               is it out of your  line     "    And in my  next letter

I"(DIehceamveberrat2h8e)r,
               having had Bates' reply to the question, say         :
               a more favourable opinion of the ' Vestiges          '

than you appear to have. I do not consider it a hasty

generalization, but rather as an ingenious hypothesis strongly

supported by some striking facts and analogies, but which

remains to be proved by more facts and the additional light

which more research may throw upon the problem. It

furnishes a subject for every observer of nature to attend to ;

every fact he observes will make either for or against and
thus serves both as an incitement to the collection of facts, and
'
                        '

                      is
                                   a
                                                                       is
                                                                           a
                                                                                                   it,
                                                                                                   it
an object to which they can be applied when collected. Many

eminent writers support the theory of the progressive develop

ment of animals and plants. There               very philosophical
work bearing directly on the question --Lawrence's 'Lectures
on Man' --delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons,

now published in cheap form. The great object of these

Lectures       to illustrate the different races of mankind, and

the manner in which they probably originated, and he arrives

xvii]  RESIDENCE AT NEATH  255

at the conclusion (as also does Pritchard in his work on the
' Physical History of Man ') that the varieties of the human
race have not been produced by any external causes, but are
due to the development of certain distinctive peculiarities in

some individuals which have thereafter become propagated

through an entire race. Now, I should say that a permanent
peculiarity not produced by external causes is a characteristic
of ' species ' and not of mere ' variety,' and thus, if the theory
of the ' Vestiges ' is accepted, the Negro, the Red Indian, and
the European are distinct species of the genus Homo.

     " An animal which differs from another by some decided

and permanent character, however slight, which difference is

undiminished by propagation and unchanged by climate and

external circumstances, is universally held to be a distinct

species ; while one which is not regularly transmitted so as to

form a distinct race, but is occasionally reproduced from the

parent stock (like Albinoes), is generally, if the difference is not

very considerable, classed as a variety. But I would class both
these as distinct species, and I would only consider those to be

varieties whose differences are produced by external causes,

and which, therefore, are not propagated as distinct races. . . .

As a further support to the ' Vestiges,' I have heard that in
his ' Cosmos ' the venerable Humboldt supports its views in

almost every particular, not excepting those relating to animal

and vegetable life. This work I have a great desire to read,
but fear I shall not have an opportunity at present. Read

Lawrence's work ; it is well worth it."
     This long quotation, containing some very crude ideas,

would not have been worth giving except for showing that at

this early period, only about four years after I had begun to
take any interest in natural history, I was already speculating

upon the origin of species, and taking note of everything

bearing upon it that came in my way. It also serves to show
the books I was reading about this time, as well as my ap

preciation of the " Vestiges," a book which, in my opinion, has
always been undervalued, and which when it first appeared
was almost as much abused, and for very much the same
reasons, as was Darwin's " Origin of Species," fifteen years later.

256                           MY LIFE                                       [Chap.

     In a letter dated April 11, 1846, there occur the following

remarks on two books about which there has been little

difference of opinion, and whose authors I had at that time
no expectation of ever calling my friends. " I was much
pleased to find that you so well appreciated Lyell. I first

read Darwin's ' Journal ' three or four years ago, and have
lately re-read it. As the Journal of a scientific traveller, it
is second only to Humboldt's ' Personal Narrative '-- as a

work of general interest, perhaps superior to                               He an
                                         I                                              is
ardent admirer and most able supporter of Mr. Lyell's views.
                                                     it.                                        a
His style of writing very much admire, so free from all
                   II
...labour, affectation, or egotism, and yet so full of interest and
original thought.             quite envy you, who have friends

near you attached to the same pursuits.  know not a single

person in this little town who studies any one branch of

natural history, so that am quite alone in this respect."
       1I
              II

                      I
"MPyersreofnearelncNearrtaotivDear"winin'sdica"tJeo,urnabel"lievea,ndtheto    Humboldt's
                                                                            two works to

whose inspiration owe my determination to visit the tropics

as collector.a
   aa
    In September, 847, my sister returned home from Alabama,

and from that time till left for Para, in the following year,
we lived together at Llantwit Cottage. To commemorate

her return she invited my brother and me to go to Paris for

week, partly induced by the fact that everywhere in America

she was asked about while we were very glad to have her
                   is
                         it,
as an interpreter. The last letter to Bates before our South
American voyage occupied chiefly with an account of this

visit, comparison of Paris with London, and especially an

account of the museums at the Jardin des Plantes as compared
with the British Museum. Towards the end of this long letter

the following passages are the only ones that relate to the

development of my views. After referring to day spent
                   I

                                      :

                             I

                                                  ;

                                                      is
                                                                       a

                                                           I

                                                                                       I in
the insect-room at the British Museum on my way home, and
the overwhelming numbers of the beetles and butterflies was
able to look over, add " begin to feel rather dissatisfied

with mere local collection little      to be learnt by it.

should like to take some one family to study thoroughly,

xvii]   RESIDENCE AT NEATH                                     257

principally with a view to the theory of the origin of species.

By that means I am strongly of opinion that some definite

results might be arrived at." And at the very end of the

letter I say : " There is a work published by the Ray Society
I should much like to see, Oken's ' Elements of Physio-
philosophy.' There is a review of it in the Atltenceum. It

contains some remarkable views on my favourite subject --the

variations, arrangements, distribution, etc., of species."

These extracts from my early letters to Bates suffice to

show that the great problem of the origin of species was

already distinctly formulated in my mind ; that I was not

satisfied with the more or less vague solutions at that time

offered ; that I believed the conception of evolution through

natural law so clearly formulated in the " Vestiges " to be, so

far as it went, a true one ; and that I firmly believed that a
full and careful study of the facts of nature would ultimately

lead to a solution of the mystery.

    There is one other subject on which I obtained conclusive

evidence while living at Neath, which may here be briefly

noticed. I have already described how at Leicester I became

convinced of the genuineness of the phenomena of mes

merism, and was able thoroughly to test them myself. I also

was able to make experiments which satisfied me of the truth

of phrenology, and had read sufficient to enable me to under

stand its general principles. But during my early residence

at Neath after my brother's death, I heard two lectures on
the subject, and in both cases I had my character delineated

with such accuracy as to render it certain that the positions
of all the mental organs had been very precisely determined.

It must be understood that the lecturers were both strangers,

and that they each gave only a single lecture on their way

to more important centres. In each case I received a large

printed sheet, with the organs and their functions stated, and

a number placed opposite to each to indicate its comparative

size. In addition to this, there was a written delineation of

character, but in each case it only professed to be a sketch,

Ias could not then afford the higher fee for a full written
development of character. As these two documents have

vol. L                                                      s

258      MY LIFE  [Chap.

fortunately been preserved and are now before me, it will be
interesting to see how closely the main features of my

character were stated by these two itinerant lecturers about

sixty years ago.

    I will take, first, that of Mr. Edwin Thomas Hicks, who

called himself " Professor of Phrenology," and whose delinea

tion was the less detailed of the two. It is as follows :--
     " The intellectual faculties are very well combined in your

head, you will manifest a good deal of perception, and will

pay great attention to facts, but as soon as facts are presented

you begin to reason and theorize upon them ; you will be
constantly searching for causes, and will form your judgment
from the analogy which one fact bears to another. You have

 a good development of number and order, will therefore be a

 good calculator, will excel in mathematics, and will be very
 systematic in your arrangements and plans. You possess a
 good deal of firmness in what you consider to be right, but
 you want self-confidence. You are cautious in acting and
 speaking, quick in temper, but kind and good in disposition."

     The above estimate, although partial, and dealing almost

entirely with the intellectual faculties, is yet wonderfully

accurate, if we consider that it is founded upon a necessarily

hasty examination, and a comparison of the proportionate

development of the thirty-seven distinct organs which the

examiner recognized. It is not generally known that even

when the size or development of each organ is accurately

given the determination of the resulting character is not a

simple matter, as it depends upon a very careful study of the

infinitely varied combinations of the organs, the result of

which is sometimes very different from what might be antici
Apated.
         good phrenologist has to make, first, a very

accurate determination of the comparative as well as the

absolute size of all the organs, and then a careful estimate of

the probable result of the special combination of organs in

each case ; and in both there will be a certain amount of

difference even between equally well-trained observers, while

in special details there may be a considerable difference in the

xvii]     RESIDENCE AT NEATH                              259

final estimate, especially when the two observers are not equal

in knowledge and experience.

The first sentence in the estimate is wonderfully accurate

and comprehensive, since it gives in very few words the

exact combination of faculties which have been the effec

tive agents in all the work I have done, and which have

given me whatever reputation in science, literature, and

thought which I possess. It is the result of the organs of

comparison, causality, and order, with firmness, acquisitive

ness, concentrativeness, constructiveness, and wonder, all

above the average, but none of them excessively developed,

combined with a moderate faculty of language, which enables

me to express my ideas and conclusions in writing, though
Ibut imperfectly in speech.
                              feel, myself, how curiously and

persistently these faculties have acted in various combinations

to determine my tastes, disposition, and actions. Thus, my

organ of order is large enough to make me wish to have

everything around me in its place, but not sufficient to enable

me to keep them so, among the multiplicity of interests and

occupations which my more active intellectual faculties lead

me to indulge in.

    The next sentence is also fairly accurate, as at school I

always found arithmetic easy, but Mr. Hicks did not, perhaps,

know that my rather small organ of wit would prevent my

ever " excelling " in mathematics. That I am " systematic

in my arrangements and plans" ;            however, quite correct.

                                      is,
My want of self-confidence has already been stated in my

own estimate of my character and the last sentence also
                                                          is
fairly precise and accurate.                                      is

Among the other organs not referred to                in  the written

character, there are few worth noting. Inbabitiveness,
          is
                  a

                           is
                                is

                                                  is
giving attachment to place, among my smaller faculties,

while Locality, giving power of remembering places and the

desire to travel, noted as being one of the largest. In

dividuality, giving power of remembering names and dates,

rather small, while Time      given as the smallest of all, in

both cases strictly corresponding with the amount of each

faculty possess. Again, Veneration                    among the smallest
       I

26o                                 MY LIFE                              [Chap.

indicated, and is shown in my character by my disregard for

mere authority or rank, its place being taken by Ideality and

Wonder, both marked as well developed, and which lead to

my intense delight in the grand, the beautiful, or the mysteri
ous in nature or in art.

     Coming now to the estimate of the other lecturer, Mr.

James Quilter     Rumball,          an M.R.C.S.    and   author   of some
medical works,    we have a         more detailed  and  careful  " Phreno

logical Development," founded on the comparative sizes of

thirty-nine organs. It is as follows, only omitting a few words

at the end, which are of a purely private and personal nature.
     " (a) There is some delicacy in the nervous system, and

consequent sensitiveness which unfits it for any very long-

continued exertion ; but this may be overcome by a strong
will. There is some tendency to indigestion ; this requires air

and exercise.
     "
             The  power  of fixing  the attention          is very       good
        (b)

indeed, and there is very considerable perceptive power, so

that this gentleman should learn easily and remember well,

notwithstanding verbal memory is but moderate. Concen-

trativeness is the chief organ upon which all the memories

depend, and this is undoubtedly large.                           He may
     " He has some vanity, and more ambition.
     (c)
                                 a
occasionally exhibit want of self-confidence but general
                                                           ;

                                                                 is
                                                                    it,
opinion ascribes to him too much. In this, opinion wrong:

he knows that he has not enough he may assume but                        it
                                    ;

will sit ill.                                           a  good Mathe

   " (d) If Wit were larger he would be

matician but without                however clear and analytical the
     (e)
mind may be, wants breadth and depth, and so do notis ;
                                                           I
                 a

                 it
                            if it,
put down his mathematical talents as first-rate, although

Number good. The same must be said of his classical
abilities --good, but not first-rate.

     " He has some love for music from his Ideality, but
                                                   ;

                                                                           I
do not find good ear, or sufficient time he has, however,

mechanical ability sufficient to produce enough of both,

especially for the flute, he so choose.

xvii]  RESIDENCE AT NEATH                                                   261

    "(J) As an artist, he would excel if his vision were

perfect : he has every necessary faculty, even to Imitation.
     "(g) He is fond of argument, and not easily convinced ; he

would exhibit physical courage if called upon ; and although
he loves money --as who does not ?--so far from there being
any evidence of greediness, he is benevolent and liberal, but

probably not extravagant. This part of his disposition

however, so evenly balanced that there not likely to be

much peculiarity.
     "(h) His domestic affections are his best. Conscientious

ness ought to be one more, but do not see what will try it.

                                           "J. Rumball."
                                             is
                                                                              is,

I

       I
                         a
                          it
                                  is
                                                              :
                                       I
                                                                 is
                                                                     Q.
       will make few remarks on this estimate, referring to

the lettered paragraphs (a) This   more medical than

phrenological, but  strikingly accurate. So long as was
                                                                         I

at school suffered from indigestion; but my after life,

largely spent in the open air, has almost entirely removed
this slight constitutional failing. (b) A very accurate state

ment. (c) This      strikingly correct. (d) have already
                is

                                       I is
                                                 I
shown how my experience at Leicester exactly accorded

with this estimate, (e) This also  an exact statement
(/)of my relation to music.        think Mr. Rumball
                             Here  detailed estimate of

has gone somewhat beyond his own

the development of my organs of Weight, Form, and Size,

which are put at only little above the average. The posi
       a

          II

                                 a
                                   aa

                               I

                                                     if
                                                                        I
tion of these organs over the frontal sinus renders their

estimate very difficult, and am inclined to think they are

really little below rather than above the average. At the

same time did draw little without any teaching worth the

name, and have high appreciation of good design, and

especially of the artistic touch, so that my attention had

been wholly devoted to the study and practice of art, may

possibly have succeeded. But my occupations and tastes led

me in other directions, while the progress of photography

rendered sketching less and less necessary.

(g) The first statement here not only correct, but
                             is

                                                     I

                                                             it

                                                                        is
really the main feature of my intellectual character.                       can

262                    MY LIFE  [Chap.

Ihardly write with ease, unless am seeking to prove some

thing. Mere narrative is distasteful to me. The remainder

of the section calls for no special observation.
    (A) I will only remark that the defect here pointed out

does undoubtedly exist, and it has been of some use to me to

know it.

     On the whole, it appears to me that these two expositions
of my character, the result of a very rapid examination of the
form of my head by two perfect strangers, made in public
among, perhaps, a dozen others, all waiting at the end of

an evening lecture, are so curiously exact in so many dis

tinct points as to demonstrate a large amount of truth --
both in the principle and in the details --of the method by

which they were produced. A short account of the evidence

in support of Phrenology is given in my " Wonderful
Century " (Chapter xx.), and those who are interested in the
subject will there see that the supposed "localization of
motor areas," by Professor Ferrier and others, which are

usually stated to be a disproof of the science, are really one
of its supports, the movements produced being merely those
which express the emotions due to the excitation of the

phrenological organ excited. When I touched the organ of

Veneration in one of my boy patients at Leicester he fell

upon his knees, closed his palms together, and gazed upwards,
with the facial expression of a saint in the ecstasy of adora
tion. Here are very definite movements of a great number
of the muscles of the whole body, and some of the movements
observed by Professor Ferrier were almost as complex, and
almost as clearly due to the physical expression of a familiar

and powerful emotion.

     I will here briefly record a few family events which suc
ceeded my departure from England early in 1848. My
brother, not having enough surveying or other work to live
upon, took a small house and a few acres of good pasture land
near the town, in order to keep cows and supply milk. This
he tried for a year, my mother and sister living with him,
doing the house work, while he carried the milk daily into

XVII]  RESIDENCE AT NEATH  263

the town in a small pony-cart. But the rent was too high,
and it did not pay ; so in the spring of 1849, he gave it up
and sailed for California in April, soon after the discoveries

of gold there and when San Francisco was a city of huts and

tents, and he lived there till his death in 1895, having only
once visited England, in the winter of 1850-51, in order to
marry the only daughter of his former employer, Mr.
Webster.

      Shortly after this my sister married Mr. Thomas Sims,

eldest son of the Mr. Sims with whom I and my brother had

lodged in Neath. He had taught himself the then undeve
loped art of photography, and he and his wife settled first in

IWeston-super-Mare, and afterwards came to London, where
    lived with them in Upper Albany Street, after my return

from the Amazon.

                 CHAPTER XVIII

                     THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON

WHAT decided our going to Para and the Amazon rather
than to any other part of the tropics was the publication in

1847, in Murray's Home and Colonial Library, of " A Voyage

up the Amazon," by Mr. W. H. Edwards. This little book
was so clearly and brightly written, described so well the
beauty and the grandeur of tropical vegetation, and gave
such a pleasing account of the people, their kindness and
hospitality to strangers, and especially of the English and
American merchants in Para, while expenses of living and
of travelling were both very moderate, that Bates and myself
at once agreed that this was the very place for us to go to
if there was any chance of paying our expenses by the sale

of our duplicate collections. I think we read the book in

the latter part of the year (or very early in 1848), and we
immediately communicated with Mr. Edward Doubleday,
who had charge of the butterflies at the British Museum,
for his advice upon the matter. He assured us that the
whole of northern Brazil was very little known, that some
small collections they had recently had from Para and
Pernambuco contained many rarities and some new species,

and that if we collected all orders of insects, as well as land-

shells, birds, and mammals, there was no doubt we could
easily pay our expenses. Thus encouraged, we determined to
go to Para, and began to make all the necessary arrange
ments. We found that by sailing in early spring we should
reach Para at the beginning of the dry season, which is both

                                                                    264

ALFRED R. WALLACE. 1848.
     {From a daguerrotype.)

                               [To face p. 264, VOl. I.


[Chap. XVIII] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON 265

the most agreeable for new-comers and the best for making
collections. We arranged, therefore, to meet in London

towards the end of March to study the collections at the

British Museum, make purchases of books, collecting apparatus,
and outfit, arrange with an agent to receive and dispose of

our collections, and make inquiries as to our passage.
     By a curious coincidence we found that Mr. Edwards,

whose book had determined us to go to the Amazon, was in

London exhibiting a very fine ivory crucifix of Italian work
manship. We called upon him in a street out of Regent

Street, and we had an interesting talk about the country.
He kindly gave us letters of introduction to some of his

American friends in Para, among others, to Mr. Leavens at
the Saw Mills, with whom we went on our short expedition

up the Tocantins river. We also saw the crucifix, which was
certainly a very fine work of art, carved out of an unusually
large mass of ivory. Mr. Edwards, who, though a little older

than myself, is still alive, writes to me (October 23, 1904) that
the crucifix was the work of a monk of St. Nicholas, Genoa,

and was purchased by Mr. C. Edwards Lester, United States

consul in that city. A brother of our Mr. Edwards purchased

it for ten thousand dollars, and exhibited it successfully in
many American cities. He died, however, in 1847, and as it

was necessary to sell our Mr. Edwards, who was his executor,
brought to London, and was exhibiting with the object
of finding purchaser. But the Louis Philippe revolution in
France occurred just at the time he arrived in London, and
        it                             it
          a                                     it
                                                      is a
                              it,

caused such disturbances and excitement throughout Europe
as to be very unfavourable for the disposal of works of art,

and he was obliged to take back to America. In year or
I it

                                   it
two was sold to the Catholics, and he thinks                now in

one of their churches at Cleveland, Ohio. Nearly forty years
later had the pleasure of visiting Mr. Edwards at his residence
in Coalburgh, West Virginia, as will be referred to in its proper

place.

     Among the interesting visits we paid while in London
was one to Dr. Horsfield at the India Museum, who showed

266              MY LIFE                                    [Chap.

us the cases in which he had brought home his large col

lection of butterflies from Java. These were stout, oblong
boxes, about three feet long by two feet wide and two feet

deep. Inside these were vertical grooves, about two inches

apart, to hold the boards corked on both sides, on which the

insects were pinned. The advantages were that a large number

of specimens were packed in a small space, and at much

less cost than in store boxes, while any insects which should

accidentally get loose would fall to the bottom, where a small

vacant space was left, and do no injury to other specimens.

It seemed such an excellent plan that we had a case made

like and sent home our first collections in  but though
it                                           it
         it,
answered its purpose was very inconvenient, and quite;
                 it
                                                         J.
unsuited to travelling collector. We therefore returned to
              a

the old style of store box, which we got made in the country,

while very good substitute for cork was found in some of
     a

the very soft woods, or in slices of the midribs of palms.

     We were fortunate in finding an excellent and trustworthy

agent in Mr. Samuel Stevens, an enthusiastic collector of

British Coleoptera and Lepidoptera, and brother of Mr. C.
Stevens, the well-known natural history auctioneer, of King

Street, Covent Garden. He continued to act as my agent

during my whole residence abroad, sparing no pains to dispose

of my duplicates to the best advantage, taking charge of my

private collections, insuring each collection as its despatch was

advised, keeping me supplied with cash, and with such stores

as required, and, above all, writing me fully as to the pro
I
                               II

                                                                                                    ;

                                                                   I a it
gress of the sale of each collection, what striking novelties

contained, and giving me general information on the progress

of other collectors and on matters of general scientific interest.

During the whole period of our business relations, extending

over more than fifteen years, cannot remember that we ever

had the least disagreement about any matter whatever.

     Mr. Bates' parents having kindly invited me to spend

week with them before we sailed, we left London early in

April for Leicester, where was very hospitably entertained,

and had an opportunity of visiting some of my old friends.

also practised shooting and skinning birds and as the ship

xviii] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON                 267

we were to sail in was somewhat delayed, I spent some days
in the wild district of Charnwood Forest, which I had often
wished to visit. At length, everything being ready, and our

date of sailing being fixed for April 20, we left Leicester by

coach a few days before that date, and stayed, I think, at

Bakewell, in order to visit Chatsworth and see the palm and

orchid houses, then the finest in England. The next day we

went on to Liverpool, where we arrived late, after a cold and

rather miserable journey outside a stage-coach.

The next morning we called upon Mr. J. G. Smith, the
gentleman who had collected butterflies at Pernambuco and

Para, at his office, and he invited us to dine with him in the

evening, when he showed us his collection, and gave us much

information about the country, the people, and the beauties

of nature. During the day we got our luggage on board,

saw our berths, and other accommodation, which was of the

scantiest, and heard that the ship was to sail the next day.

In the morning, after breakfast at our inn, we made a few

final purchases, received a letter of introduction to the con

signee of the vessels, and bade farewell to our native land.

    At that time there were very few steamships, and most of

the ocean trade was still carried on in sailing vessels. Ours

was one of the smallest, being a barque of 192 tons, named
the Mischief, and said to be a very fast sailer. We were told

Athat she was ranked 1 at Lloyds, and that we might there

fore be quite sure that she was thoroughly seaworthy. We

were the only passengers, and were to have our meals with

the captain and mate, both youngish men, but of whom, owing

to my deficient individuality, I have not the slightest recol

lection. Soon after we got out to sea the wind rose and

increased to a gale in the Bay of Biscay, with waves that

flooded our decks, washed away part of our bulwarks, and

was very near swamping us altogether. All this time I was
in my berth prostrate with sea-sickness, and it was only, I

think, on the sixth day, when the weather had become fine

and the sea smooth, that I was able to go on deck just as we

had a distant sight of Maderia. Shortly afterwards we got

into the region of the trade-wind, and had fine, bright weather

268  MY LIFE  [Chap.

all the rest of the voyage. We passed through part of the
celebrated Sargasso Sea, where the surface is covered with
long stretches of floating sea-weed, not brought there by
storms from the distant shore, but living and growing where
it is found, and supporting great numbers of small fish, crabs,
mollusca, and innumerable low forms of marine life. And
when we left this behind us, the exquisite blue of the water

by day and the vivid phosphorescence often seen at night
were a constant delight, while our little barque, with every

sail set, and going steadily along day and night about ten
knots an hour, was itself a thing of beauty and a perpetual

enjoyment.

     At length the water began to lose its blue colour, becom

ing first greenish, then olive, and finally olive-yellow, and
one morning we saw on the horizon the long, low line of

the land, and on the next, when we came on deck before

sunrise, found ourselves anchored opposite the city of
Para, twenty-nine days after leaving Liverpool. From this

date till I landed at Deal, in October 1852, my adventures
and experiences are given in my book, "A Narrative of

Travels on the Amazon and Rio Negro," a cheap edition of
which is comprised in " The Minerva Library of Famous

Books."

     In order that no large gap may occur in these memories

Iof my life, will give here a general outline of my travels,

with such incidental remarks or recollections as may occur to

me. To begin with, I will give a short description of my

impressions written to my old friend and schoolfellow, Mr.
George Silk, about a fortnight after our arrival, to supplement

the more detailed but less impulsive account in my published

narrative.
     " We have been staying for near a fortnight at the country

house (called here Rosinha) of Mr. Miller, the consignee of
the vessel and the captain's brother, about half a mile out of
the city. We have just taken a house ourselves rather nearer
the woods, and to-morrow expect to be in it. We have an
old nigger who cooks for us. The city of Para is a curious,
outlandish looking place, the best part of it very like

xvni] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON         269

Boulogne, the streets narrow and horribly rough --no pave

ment. The public buildings handsome, but out of repair or

even ruinous. The squares and public places covered with

grass and weeds like an English common. Palm trees of

many different kinds, bananas and plantains abundant in all

the gardens, and orange trees innumerable, most of the roads

out of the city being bordered on each side with them.
Bananas and oranges are delicious. I eat them at almost

every meal. Beef is the only meat to be constantly had, not
very good, but cheap -- 2\d. a pound. Coffee grows wild all
about the city, yet it is imported for use, the people are so

lazy. Every shade of colour is seen here in the people
from white to yellow, brown, and black --negroes, Indians,

Brazilians, and Europeans, with every intermediate mixture.
The Brazilians and Portuguese are very polite, and have all

the appearance of civilization. Naked nigger children abound

in the streets.

    "Within a mile of the city all around is the forest, ex

tending uninterruptedly many hundreds and even, in some

directions, thousands of miles into the interior. The climate

is beautiful. We are now at the commencement of the dry

season. It rains generally for an hour or two every evening,

though not always. Before sunrise the thermometer is about

75°, in the afternoon 850 to 870, the highest I have yet noted.
This is hot, but by no means oppressive. I enjoy it as much

as the finest summer weather in England. We have been

principally collecting insects at present. The variety is

immense ; we have already got about four hundred distinct

kinds."

In fulfilment of a promise I made before I left Neath, I

wrote a letter to the members of the Mechanics' Institution,
after I had been nine months in the country, and as my

mother preserved a copy of       a      will give the more important

                                  iIt,
parts of  it        here. After  few preliminary observations,I

                   :
proceed thus --
" Previous to leaving England had read many books of
                      I
                                    I
travels in hot countries, had dwelt so much on the enthusiastic

270                                             MY LIFE  [Chap.

descriptions most naturalists give of the surpassing beauty of

tropical vegetation, and of the strange forms and brilliant
colours of the animal world, that I had wrought myself up to

a fever-heat of expectation, and it is not to be wondered at

that my early impressions were those of disappointment. On

my first walk into the forest I looked about, expecting to see

monkeys as plentiful as at the Zoological Gardens, with

humming-birds and parrots in profusion. But for several

days I did not see a single monkey, and hardly a bird of any
kind, and I began to think that these and other productions

of the South American forests are much scarcer than they are

represented to be by travellers. But I soon found that these
creatures were plentiful enough when I knew where and how

to look for them, and that the number of different kinds of

all the groups of animals is wonderfully great. The special

interest of this country to the naturalist               is,

                                                                            I
                                                         that while there

appears at first to be so few of the higher forms of life, there

in reality an inexhaustible variety of almost all animals.
is
               is

                                             a
almost think that in single walk you may sometimes see

more quadrupeds, birds, and even some groups of insects in

England than here. But when seeking after them day after

day, the immense variety of strange forms and beautiful

colours      really astonishing. There are, for instance, few

places in England where during one summer more than thirty

different kinds of butterflies can be collected but here,
                                                         a
about two months, we obtained more than four hundred
                                                               ;
distinct species, many of extraordinary size, or of the most
                                                                        a
brilliant colours.is,                                                               a a in
    " There however, one natural feature of this country, the

interest and grandeur of which may be fully appreciated in
                       the " virgin forest." Here no one who has
single walk  :     is

               it

any feeling of the magnificent and the sublime can be

disappointed the sombre shade, scarce illumined by single
             ;

direct ray even of the tropical sun, the enormous size and

height of the trees, most of which rise like huge columns

hundred feet or more without throwing out single branch,

the strange buttresses around the base of some, the spiny or

furrowed stems of others, the curious and even extraordinary

xviii] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON

creepers and climbers which wind around them, hanging in
long festoons from branch to branch, sometimes curling and
twisting on the ground like great serpents, then mounting to
the very tops of the trees, thence throwing down roots and

fibres which hang waving in the air, or twisting round each
other form ropes and cables of every variety of size, and
often of the most perfect regularity. These, and many other

novel features --the parasitic plants growing on the trunks and
branches, the wonderful variety of the foliage, the strange
fruits and seeds that lie rotting on the ground --taken alto

 gether surpass description, and produce feelings in the

beholder of admiration and awe. It is here, too, that the

 rarest birds, the most lovely insects, and the most interesting
 mammals and reptiles are to be found. Here lurk the

 jaguar and the boa-constrictor, and here amid the densest

 shade the bell-bird tolls his peal. But I must leave these

 details and return to some more general description.
       " The whole country for some hundreds of miles around

 Para is almost level, and seems to be elevated on the average
 about thirty or forty feet above the river, the only slopes

  being where streams occur, which flow in very shallow and
 often scarcely perceptible valleys. The great island of

  Maraj'6, opposite Para, is equally flat, and the smaller island
 of Mexiana (pronounced Mishiana), which is about forty

 miles long, is even more so, there not being, I believe, a rise

  or fall of ten feet over the whole of it. Up the river Tocan-
  tins, however, about one hundred and fifty miles south-west of

  Para, the land begins to rise. At about a hundred miles

  from its mouth, the bed of the river becomes rocky and the
  country undulating, with hills four or five hundred feet high,

  entirely covered with forest except at a few places on the
  banks where some patches of open grass land occur, probably
  the site of old cultivation and kept open by the grazing of
  cattle.

       " The whole of the Para district is wonderfully intersected
  by streams, and the country being so flat, there are frequently
  cross-channels connecting them together. Up all these the
  tide flows, and on their banks all the villages, estates, and

272                   MY LIFE  [Chap.

native huts are situated. There is probably no country in

the world that affords such facilities for internal communica

tion by water.

    "The climate of Para cannot be spoken of too highly.
The temperature is wonderfully uniform, the average daily
variation of the thermometer being only 12° F. The lowest

temperature at night is about 74° the highest in the day

about 86°, but  with   occasional extremes of 700 and 90°
                been  constantly out at all times of the day,
Though I have
and often exposed to the vertical sun, I have never suffered

any ill effects from the heat, or even experienced so much in

convenience from it as I have often done during a hot summer

at home. There are two principal divisions of the year
into the wet and dry seasons, called here winter and summer.
The wet season is from January to June, during which

time it rains more or less every day, but seldom the whole
day, the mornings usually being fine. The dry season is by
no means what it is in some parts of the world ; it still rains

every two or three days, and it is a rare thing for more than

a week to pass without a shower, so that vegetation is never
dried up, and a constant succession of fruits and flowers and
luxuriant foliage prevails throughout the year. Notwith
standing the amount of water everywhere, Para is very
healthy. The English and Americans who have lived here

the longest look the healthiest. As for myself, I have enjoyed

the most perfect health and spirits without the necessity for

nearly so many precautions as are required at home.
     " The vegetable productions of the country around Para

are very numerous and interesting. There are upwards of

thirty different kinds of palms, and in almost every case the

leaves, stems, or fruits are useful to man. One elegant species,

the stem of which, though not thicker than a man's arm,

rises to a height of sixty or eighty feet, produces a small

blackish fruit, from which a creamy preparation is made, of

which everybody becomes very fond, and which forms a large
part of the subsistence of the natives. From the fibres of one

kind ropes are made, which are in general use for the cables
of native vessels as they are almost indestructible in water.

xviii] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON     273

The houses of the Indians are often entirely built of various
parts of palm-trees, the stems forming posts and rafters, while

the leaf-stalks, often twenty feet long, placed side by side and
pegged together, make walls and partitions. Not a particle
of iron is needed, the various parts of the roofs being fastened
together with the lianas or forest-ropes already described,
while, as both stem and leaf-stalks split perfectly straight no

tools whatever are needed besides the heavy bush-knife

which every countryman carries.
     " The calabash tree supplies excellent basins, while gourds

of various sizes and shapes are formed into spoons, cups, and
bottles ; and cooking-pots of rough earthenware are made
everywhere. Almost every kind of food, and almost all the
necessaries of life, can be here grown with ease, such as coffee

and cocoa, sugar, cotton, farinha from the mandioca plant
(the universal bread of the country), with vegetables and
fruits in inexhaustible variety. The chief articles of export
from Para are india-rubber, brazil-nuts, and piassaba (the
coarse stiff fibre of a palm, used for making brooms for street-
sweeping), as well as sarsaparilla, balsam-capivi, and a few

other drugs. Oranges, bananas, pine-apples, and water

 melons are very plentiful, while custard-apples, mangoes,

cashews, and several other fruits abound in their season. All

are very cheap, as may be judged by the fact that a bushel
basket of delicious oranges may be purchased for sixpence or

a shilling.
     " Coming to the animal world, a forest country is often dis

appointing because so few of the larger animals can be seen,

though some of them may be often heard, especially at night.

The monkeys are in every way the most interesting, and are

the most frequently to be met with. A large proportion of

American monkeys have prehensile tails, which are so power

ful in some of the species that they can hang their whole

weight upon it and swing about in the air with only a few

inches of the tip twisted round a branch. If disturbed in

such a position they swing themselves off, catching hold of

boughs hand over hand, and rapidly disappear. They live

entirely in the tree-tops, hardly ever descending to the ground,
                                  T
VOL. L

274  MY LIFE  [Chap.

and in this region of forests they can travel hundreds of
miles without requiring to do so, so that they are almost as
independent of the earth as are the swifts and the humming
birds. They vary in size from the little marmosets, not so
large as a squirrel, up to the howling monkeys the size of a
large shepherd's dog. Of what are commonly termed wild

beasts the jaguar or onca (somewhat similar to a leopard, but
stouter) is the most powerful and dangerous, and is very
destructive to horses and cattle. The puma (often called the
American lion), though equally large, is much less dangerous.

Tapirs, agoutis, armadillos, and sloths are not uncommon, but
are very rarely seen. Birds are very abundant, and many
are exceedingly beautiful. Macaws, parrots, toucans, trogons,

chatterers, and tanagers, are all common, and often of the
most gorgeous colours, while the lovely little humming-birds,

though not so numerous as in the mountain districts, are to

be seen in every garden. In the islands of Mexiana and

Marajo, those splendid birds the scarlet ibis and the roseate
spoonbill abound, together with great numbers of storks,

herons, ducks, divers, and other aquatic birds ; while in the
forests of the mainland the fine crested curassows and the

elegant trumpeters are among the larger ground-feeders.
     " Lizards swarm everywhere in a variety of strange forms

--the curious geckos, which can walk about the ceilings by
means of suckers on their toes ; the large iguanas, which cling
to branches by their prehensile tails, and whose flesh is a

delicacy ; and the large ground lizards, three or four feet long.
Frogs of all kinds abound, and some of the little tree frogs
are so gaily coloured as to be quite pretty. The rivers are
full of turtles of many kinds, one of the largest being very

plentiful and as delicate eating as the well-known marine
turtle of City feasts. Snakes, though not often seen, are

really very numerous, but comparatively few are poisonous.
     " Fish abound in all the rivers, and many of them are of the

very finest quality. One very large fish, called the pirarucii,
is three or four feet long, and when slightly salted and dried
in the sun can be kept for any time, and takes the place of
salt cod, kippered haddocks, and red herrings in Europe.

XViii] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON  275

" The inhabitants of Para, as of all Brazil, consist of three

distinct races : the Portuguese and their descendants with a

few other Europeans, the native Indians, and the Negroes

together with a considerable number of mixed descent. The

Indians in and near Para are all 'tame Indians,' being

Roman Catholics in religion and speaking Portuguese, though

many speak also the Lingoa-Geral or common Indian

language. They are the chief boatmen, fishermen, hunters,

and cultivators in the country, while many of them work as

labourers or mechanics in the towns. The negroes were

originally all slaves, but a large number are now free, some

having purchased their freedom, while others have been freed

by their owners by gift or by will. Most of the sugar and cocoa

plantations are worked partly by slave and partly by hired

labour. The negroes, here as elsewhere, are an exceedingly

talkative and contented race, as honest as can be expected

under the circumstances, and when well treated exceedingly

faithful and trustworthy. Generally they are not hard-worked,

and are treated with comparative kindness and lenity.
     " The people of all races are universally polite, and are

generally temperate and peaceful. The streets of Para are

more free from drunkenness and quarrels than any town of

like size in England or Wales ; yet in the time of Portuguese

rule there were some fearful insurrections, brought on by

oppressive government. But now, foreigners of all sorts can

live in perfect safety, and on excellent terms with the native

residents and officials, though, of course, they have to conform
to the customs of the country, and obey all the laws and

regulations, which latter are sometimes inconvenient and

*····troublesome."
              ·
    Shortly after writing this letter I went on a collecting

expedition up the river Guama, and soon after my return, in

July, 1849, my younger brother Herbert came out to join me
in order to see if he had sufficient taste for natural history to

become a good collector. I had decided to start up the

Amazon as soon as I could find an opportunity, and after

a month in the suburbs of Para we left in a small empty boat

276  MY LIFE  [Chap.

returning to Santarem, where we intended to stay for some
time. Dr. Richard Spruce, the now well-known traveller and
botanist, came out in the same ship with my brother, and was
accompanied by a young Englishman, Mr. King, as an

assistant and pupil in botany ; and as Dr. Spruce was a well-
educated men, a most ardent botanist, and of very pleasing

manners and witty conversation, we very much enjoyed the
short time we were together. My brother was the only one
of our family who had some natural capacity as a verse-writer,

and I will therefore supplement my rather dry descriptions

by some bright verses he sent home, giving his impressions of

Para and the voyage to Santarem, which occupied twenty-

eight days, the distance being about seven hundred miles.

                         " From Para to Santarem.
                          " Well ! here we are at anchor

                            In the river of Pari ;

                               We have left the rolling ocean
                                   Behind us and afar ;

                                Our weary voyage is over,

                                       Sea-sickness is no more,
                               The boat has come to fetch us

                                        So let us go on shore.
                                How strange to us the aspect

                               This southern city wears !
                                The ebon niggers grinning,

                                   The Indians selling wares ;
                               The lasses darkly delicate,

                                With eyes that ever kill, --
                            All breathe to us in whispers

                                   That we are in Brazil.

                          " The streets are green and pleasant,
                                   The natives clad in white ;

                                We miss the noise of coaches,
                                   But miss it with delight.

                                The hairy sheep is biting
                                   The grass between the stones,

                                And many a pig is grunting
                                In half familiar tones ;

                                And through the green janellas *
                                   (Which we should like to raise)

                             Dark eyes of the senhoras
                                    Upon the strangers gaze.

                                   * Venetian shutters in place of sashes.

xviii]  THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON                  277

          The many foreign faces,
             The lingo stranger still,--

          All breathe to us in whispers
             That we are in Brazil.

        " We stroll about the suburbs,
              Beneath the mango groves,

          Where friends appoint their meetings
             And lovers seek their loves ;

          Where fruit and doce" vendors,
             With many a varied cry,

          Invite the evening stroller
             Their luxuries to buy.

          Here soars the lofty coco,
             Here feathery palm-trees rise,

          And the green broad-leaved banana
              Swells forth 'neath sunny skies.

          The cooling water-melon,
             The wild pine by the rill,--

         All breathe to us in whispers
             That we are in Brazil.

           ··**                          »

        " Once more upon the waters,

        Adieu to thee, Para,

        Adieu, kind friends, whose latticed homes
           Are fading now afar.

        We sail 'mid lovely islands,

           Where man has seldon trod,
        Where the wild deer and the onca

        Are owners of the sod ;

        By forests high and gloomy,

        Where never a ray of sun

        Can pierce its way to enter

        Those shades so thick and dun.

        The cry of parrots overhead,
           The toucan with his bill, --

        All breathe to us in whispers

        That we are in Brazil.

        " And now upon the Amazon,
             The waters rush and roar--

          The noble river that flows between

            A league from shore to shore ;

          Our little bark speeds gallantly,
             The porpoise, rising, blows,

          The gull darts downward rapidly
             At a fish beneath our bows,

278  MY LIFE  [Chap.

                              The far-off roar of the onca,
                                  The cry of the whip-poor-will--

                           All breathe to us in whispers
                                  That we are in Brazil.

                         " By many an Indian cottage,
                                  By many a village green,

                              Where naked little urchins
                                  Are fishing in the stream,

                           With days of sunny pleasure,
                                  But, oh, with weary nights,

                           For here upon the Amazon
                              The dread mosquito bites --

                               Inflames the blood with fever,

                                  And murders gentle sleep,
                           Till, weary grown and peevish,

                                  We've half a mind to weep !
                               But still, although they torture,

                               We know they cannot kill, --
                           All breathe to us in whispers

                                  That we are in Brazil.

                         " And now the wave around us
                                  Has changed its muddy hue,

                               For we are on the Tapajoz,
                                  And Santarem 's in view ;

                               Fair Santarem, whose sandy beach

                                       Slopes down into the wave,

                                   Where mothers wash their garments,
                                  And their happy children lave.

                               Now comes the welcome greeting,
                                  The warm embrace of friends,

                               And here, then, for a season,
                                  The toil of voyaging ends.

                               The silent Indian sentry,
                               The mud fort on the hill, --

                           All breathe to us in whispers
                                  That we are in Brazil."

     We remained at Santarem about three months, including

a visit to Monte Alegre, a village on the opposite or north
side of the river, where we had heard there were some very

interesting caves, and where we found the great water-lily, the
Victoria regia, growing abundantly in a backwater of the
Amazon. Santarem and Monte Alegre both differ from
almost all the rest of the places on the banks of the Amazon

in being open country, with rocky hills dotted all over with

xviiij THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON         279

low trees and shrubs, and with only isolated patches of forest
for many miles round. This peculiarity of vegetation was

accompanied by an equal peculiarity of insect life, especially

in the butterflies, which were almost all different from any I

Ihad found at Para, and many of them wonderfully beautiful.

Here first obtained evidence of the great river limiting the
range of species. At Santarem I found a lovely butterfly
about the size of our largest peacocks or red-admirals, but
entirely of different shades of the most exquisite sky-blue of

a velvety texture {CallitJiea sapphirina), while on the oppo
 site side of the river was a closely allied species of an almost

 indigo-blue colour, and with different markings underneath.
 Dr. Spruce assured me that, though he had studied all the

 known plants of the Amazon before leaving England, he felt

quite puzzled when collecting at Santarem, because almost

every shrub and tree he found there proved to be a new species.

    We greatly enjoyed our short residence at Santarem, both

on account of the delightful climate, the abundance of good

milk, which we could get nowhere else after leaving Para, and

for the pleasant friends we met there. The following descrip

tive verses by my brother may therefore appropriately follow

here : --

"A Description of Santarem.

" I stand within a city,
    A city strangely small ;

  'Tis not at all like Liverpool,
      Like London, not at all.

  The blue waves of the Tapajoz
     Are rippling at its feet,

  Where anchored lie the light canoes--
     A Lilliputian fleet.

  The scream of parrots overhead,

     The cry of the whip-poor-will,
  All tell me you're in England,

     And I am in Brazil.

" I wander through the city,
     Where everything is new :

  The grinning, white-toothed negroes,
     The pigs of varied hue ;

  The naked little children,
     With skins of every dye,

28o  MY LIFE                                     [Chap.

     Some black, some brown, some lighter,

        Some white as you or I.
     A dozen such in family,

        With bellies all to fill,

     Would be no joke in England ;
        'Tis nothing in Brazil ! "

     Then follows his farewell verses, well expressing the

regret we both felt at leaving it. I may just note here that

his reference to "blue pig" is not imagination only. Among
the quantities of pigs that roamed about the city and suburbs

(really little more than a large straggling village) was one
whose nearly black skin was seen in certain lights to be dis
tinctly blue ; and to have found the real " blue pig," which
under the name of the " Blue Boar " is a not uncommon inn-

sign at home, greatly delighted my brother.

           " Farewell to Santarem.

     " My skiff is waiting on the shore,
          And on the wave is my canoe ;

       Ye citizens of Santarem,
          To each and all, adieu 1

       The hour has come to bid, with grief,
       Adieu to milk and tender beef.

     " Adieu, the fort upon the hill,
           And yon cathedral's domes,

       Like guardian giants gazing down
           Upon thy lowly homes ;

       Ye naked children, all adieu,
       And thou strange pig with skin of blue !

     " Farewell, the forest's deep recess,
           Where Sol can never come ;

        Farewell, the campo's sandy plain,
           The lizards in the sun.

       To water-melons cool, adieu ;
       And farewell, old black cook, to you.

     " Adieu, thy shores, broad Tapajoz,
           Within thy heaven-dyed wave,

       At noonday's silent, sultry hour
           I've joy'd to plunge and lave.

        Adieu I to-morrow's noonday sun,

       IH bathe in yellow Amazon."

xviii] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON  281

     On reaching the city of Barra at the mouth of the Rio

Negro we found a strange and even now unaccountable

poverty both in insects and birds, although there was fine
virgin forest within a walk, with roads and paths and fine

rocky streams. All seemed barren and lifeless as compared
with the wonderful productiveness of Para. It was, therefore,
necessary to seek other localities in search of rarities. I

accordingly went a three days' journey up the Rio Negro to
obtain specimens of the umbrella-bird, one of the most re
markable birds of these regions, my brother going in another

direction to see what he could discover.

    After a month I returned to Barra, and after some months

of almost constant wet weather went to a plantation in the
Amazon above Barra for two months, where I made a tolerable

collection, while my brother went to Serpa, lower down on

the Amazon ; and on returning I prepared for my long

intended voyage to the Upper Rio Negro in hopes of getting
into a new and more productive country. As soon as a

 much overdue vessel had arrived, bringing letters and re

mittances from England, I was ready to start for a journey of

unknown duration. After a year's experience it was now

 clear that my brother was not fitted to become a good

 natural-history collector, as he took little interest in birds

 or insects, and without enthusiasm in the pursuit he would
 not have been likely to succeed. We therefore arranged that
 he should stay at or near Barra for a few months of the dry

 season, make what collections he could, then return to Para

on his way home. I left him what money I could spare, and

 as he was now well acquainted with the country, and could,
 if absolutely necessary, get an advance from our agents at

Para, I had little doubt that he would get home without
difficulty. But I never saw him again. When he reached

 Para, towards the end of May, 185 1, he at once took a passage
 to England in a ship to leave early in June, but before it
 sailed he was seized with yellow fever, then prevalent in the

 town, and though at first seeming to get better, died a few
 days afterwards. Mr. Bates was at Para at the time, pre
 paring for his second long journey up the Amazon. He was

282  MY LIFE                                     [Chap.

with him when he was taken ill, and did all he could in getting

medical assistance and helping to nurse him. But just when

my brother was at his worst, two days before his death, he

was himself attacked with the same disease, which rendered

him absolutely helpless for ten days, though, being of a

stronger and more hardened constitution, he finally recovered.

Mr. Miller, the Vice-consul, with whom I and Bates had stayed

when we arrived at Para, was with my brother when he died.

This gentleman had severe brain-fever not long afterwards,

and also died ; but he told Mr. Bates that a few hours before
my brother's death he had said that " it was sad to die so
young." In one of his last letters home he had spoken quite

cheerfully, saying, " When I arrive in England I have my
plans, which I can better tell than write." And then referring

to his brother John's emigration to California,  and some    idea
that he, Herbert, might go there too, he says,               like
                                                 " I do not
the Californian scheme for many reasons. I should like to

have seen John's first letter. No doubt he is sure to get on. I

wish I was a little less poetical ; but, as I am what I am, I must
try and do the best for myself I can." I rather think he had

the idea of getting some literary work to do, perhaps on a

country newspaper or magazine, and it is not unlikely that

that was what he was best fitted for.

    I may here briefly explain why he had no regular employ
ment to fall back upon. Owing to the fact that I left home
when I was fourteen (he being then only seven and a half),
and that when I happened to be at home afterwards he was
often away at school, I really knew very little of him till he

came to me at Para. Until I left school he had been taught

at home by my father, and afterwards went for a year or two
to a cheap boarding school in Essex. As it was necessary

for him to learn something, he was placed with a portmanteau

and bag-maker in Regent Street, where he was at first a mere

shop-boy, and as he showed little aptitude for learning the

trade, and was not treated very kindly by his master, he was

rather miserable, and was taken away after a year. My

brother William then got him into the pattern-shop at the

Neath Abbey Iron Works soon after I had gone to Leicester.

                                                                 *.

xvni] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON  283

There he remained, lodging near the works, and when we
went to live at Neath, spending his Sundays with us. At this
time he took to writing verses, and especially enigmas in the
style of W. Mackworth Praed, and these appeared almost
weekly in some of the local papers. But he evidently had no
inclination or taste for mechanical work, and though he

spent, I think, about four years in the pattern-shops he

 never became a good workman ; and as he saw no prospect
 of ever earning more than a bare subsistence as a mechanic,

 and perhaps not even that, he gladly came out to me,
 when he had just completed his twentieth year. His

 misfortune was that he had no thorough school training, no

 faculty for or love of mechanical work, and was not possessed
 of sufficient energy to overcome these deficiencies of nature

  and nurture.

     The remainder of my South American travels consisted of

two voyages up the Rio Negro. On the first I went beyond

the boundaries of Brazil, and crossed by a road in the forest
to one of the tributaries of the Orinoko. Returning thence

I visited a village up a small branch of the Rio Negro, where

there is an isolated rocky mountain, the haunt of the beautiful
Cock of the Rock ; afterwards going up the Uaupes as far as

the second cataract at Juaurite. I then returned with my

collections to Barra, having determined to go much farther

up the Uaupes in order to obtain, if possible, the white
umbrella bird which I had been positively assured was

found there ; and also in the hopes of finding some new and

better collecting ground near the Andes. These journeys
were made, but the second was cut short by delays and the

wet season. My health also had suffered so much by a

succession of fevers and dysentery that I did not consider it

prudent to stay longer in the country.
     Although during the last two journeys in the Rio Negro

and Orinoko districts I had made rather large miscellaneous

collections, and especially of articles of native workmanship,

I never found any locality at all comparable with Para as a
collecting ground. The numerous places I visited along

284      MY LIFE                                              [Chap.

more than a thousand miles of river, all alike had that

poverty of insect and bird-life which characterized Barra

itself, a poverty which is not altogether explicable. The

enormous difficulties and delays of travel made it impossible

to be at the right place at the right season ; while the
excessive wetness of the climate rendered the loss of the only

month or two of fine weather irreparable for the whole year.
The comparative scantiness of native population at all the

towns of the Rio Negro, the small amount of cultivation, the

scarcity of roads through the forest, and the want of any
guide from the experience of previous collectors, combined to

render my numerous journeys in this almost totally unknown

region comparatively unproductive in birds and insects. As

it happened (owing to Custom House formalities at Barra),
the whole of my collections during the last two voyages were

with me on the ship that was burnt, and were thus totally

lost. On the whole, I am inclined to think that the best
places now available for a collector in the country I visited

are at the San Jeronym and Juaritd falls on the River Uaupes,
and at Javita, on a tributary of the Orinoko, if the whole of

the dryest months could be spent there. So far as I have

heard, no English traveller has to this day ascended the

Uaupes river so far as I did, and no collector has stayed any

time at Javita, or has even passed through it. There           ' is,

therefore, an almost unknown district still waiting for explora

tion by some competent naturalist.

    One letter wrote from Guia on the Upper Rio Negro,
    a I iIt
            I

               I

                               a
                                              aa
three months after my arrival there, has been preserved, and
      extract the following passage --
from                                              :
     " have been spending month with some Indians three    '

days' journey up narrow stream (called the Cobati River).
From there we went half day's journey through the forest

to rocky mountain where the celebrated Gallos de Serra

(Cocks of the Rock) breed. But we were very unfortunate,
for though had with me ten hunters and we remained nine

days at the Serra, suffering many inconveniences (having

only taken farinha and salt with us), only got a dozen
                                                  I

gallos, whereas had expected in less time to have secured
      I


                               I

    I. CYNODON SCOMBROIDES. FAM. CH ARACINIDiE.
                       (One-fourth natural size.)

2. XIPHOSTOMA LATERISTRIGA. FAM. CH ARACINID^E.
                           (One-third natural size.)

                                                 [To face p. 285, VOL. I.

xviii] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON                    285

fifty. Insects, there were none at all ; and other good birds

excessively rare.

    " My canoe is now getting ready for a further journey up

to near the sources of the Rio Negro in Venezuela, where I
Ihave reason to believe shall find insects more plentiful, and

at least as many birds as here. On my return from there

I shall take a voyage up the great river Uaupes, and another
up the Isanna, not so much for my collections, which I do

not expect to be very profitable there, but because I am so

much interested in the country and the people that I am
determined to see and know more of it
                                       and them     than any
other European traveller. If I do not  get profit,
                                                    I hope at

least to get some credit as an industrious and persevering

traveller."

   I then go on to describe the materials I was collecting for

books on the palms and on the fishes of these regions, and

also for a book on the physical history of the Amazon

valley. Only the " Palms " were published, but I give here
a few copies of the drawings I made of about two hundred
species of Rio Negro fishes, which I had hoped to increase
to double that number had I remained in the country.

     The two first figures {Cynodon scombroides and Xiphostoma

lateristriga) belong to the family Characinidae, a group which
abounds in the fresh waters of tropical America and Africa,
where it replaces the carps (Cyprinidae) of Europe and the
Old World generally, though not very closely allied to them.
Many of the species are very like some of our commonest river-

fish, such as gudgeons, dace, roach, tench, and bream, and I

have drawings of no less than sixty-five species of the family.

They are all, I believe, eatable, but are not held to be fishes

of the best quality.

     The next figure (Pimelodus holomelas) is an example of
the family Siluridae, which is found in the fresh waters of all
parts of the world. The cat-fishes of North America and

the sturgeons of Eastern Europe belong to it. I obtained
thirty-four species on the Rio Negro, many being of a large

 size. They are generally bottom-feeding fishes and are

286                   MY LIFE                    [Chap.

greatly esteemed, the flesh being very fat and rich, quite

beyond any of our English fishes.
    The next figure (Plecostomus guacari) is one of the

Loricariidae, which are allied to the Siluridae, but characterized

by hard bony scales or plates, and dangerous bony spines to

the dorsal and pectoral fins. Many are of very strange and
                                                               I
repulsive forms, and though eatable are not esteemed.

obtained seven species of these curious fishes.

     The remaining two figures serve to illustrate the family

Cichlidae, one of the most abundant and characteristic groups

of South American fishes. All are of moderate size, and feed

partially or entirely on vegetable substances, especially fruits

which grow on the river-banks and when ripe fall into the

water. They are caught with fruits as a bait, and the fisher

man gently lashes the water with his rod so as to imitate

the sound of falling fruit, thus attracting the fish. Some of

these are the most delicious fish in the world, both delicate

and fat, to such an extent that the water they are boiled in

is always served at table in basins, and is a very delicious

broth, quite different to any meat broth and equal to the

best. It is more like a very rich chicken broth than any
thing else. I obtained twenty-two species of this family of

fishes, the little Pterophyllum scalaris, called the butterfly

fish, being one of the most fantastic of fresh-water fishes.

The other, Cichlosoma severum, is one of the best for the table.

    I have presented my collection of fish drawings to the
British Museum of Natural History, and I am indebted to

Mr. C. Tate Regan, who has charge of this department, for

giving me the names of the species represented. In a paper

read before the Zoological Society in August, 1905, he states

that he has named about a hundred species, and that a large
portion of the remainder are probably new species, showing

how incomplete is our knowledge of the fishes of the Amazon

and its tributaries.

     Looking back over my four years' wanderings in the
Amazon valley, there seem to me to be three great features
which especially impressed me, and which fully equalled or

  3. PIMELODUS HOLOMELAS. FAM. SILURiD/E.
                   (One-third natural size.)

4. PLECOSTOMUS GUACARI. FAM. LOKICARIID/E.
                    (One-third natural size.)

                                          [To face p. 286, Vol. I.


6. CtCHLOSOMA SEVERUM. FAM. CICHLID/E.
                 (One-third natural size.)
                                                [To face p. 286, VOl. I.


xvill] THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON  287

even surpassed my expectations of them. The first was the
virgin forest, everywhere grand, often beautiful and even sub
lime. Its wonderful variety with a more general uniformity
never palled. Standing under one of its great buttressed
trees --itself a marvel of nature--and looking carefully around,
noting the various columnar trunks rising like lofty pillars,
one soon perceives that hardly two of these are alike. The
shape of the trunks, their colour and texture, the nature of
their bark, their mode of branching and the character of the
foliage far overhead, or of the fruits or flowers lying on the

ground, have an individuality which shows that they are all
distinct species differing from one another as our oak, elm,
beech, ash, lime, and sycamore differ. This extraordinary
variety of the species is a general though not universal
characteristic of tropical forests, but seems to be nowhere so

 marked a feature as in the great forest regions which encircle

 the globe for a few degrees on each side of the equator. An
 equatorial forest is a kind of natural arboretum where speci
 mens of an immense number of species are brought together
 by nature. The western half of the island of Java affords an
 example of such a forest-region which has been well explored,
 botanically ; and although almost all the fertile plains have

 been cleared for cultivation, and the forests cover only a
 small proportion of the country, the number of distinct
 species of forest-trees is said to be over fifteen hundred.
 Now the whole island is only about as large as Ireland, and
 has a population of over twenty millions ; and as the eastern
 half of the island has a much drier climate, where there are

 forests of teak and much more open country, it is certain

 that this enormous variety of species is found in a wonder

 fully small area, probably little larger than Wales. I have

 no doubt that the forests of the Amazon valley are equally
 rich, while there are not improbably certain portions of their

 vast extent which are still richer.

    IThe second feature, that can never think of without

  delight, is the wonderful variety and exquisite beauty of the

  butterflies and birds, a variety and charm which grow upon
  one month after month and year after year, as ever new and

288               MY LIFE                   [Chap. XVIII]

beautiful, strange and even mysterious, forms are continually

met with. Even now I can hardly recall them without a

thrill of admiration and wonder.

     The third and most unexpected sensation of surprise and

delight was my first meeting and living with man in a state
of nature-- with absolute uncontaminated savages ! This was

Ion the Uuap^s river, and the surprise of it was that did not
in the least expect to be so surprised. I had already been

two years in the country, always among Indians of many

tribes ; but these were all what are called tame Indians, they

wore at least trousers and shirt ; they had been (nominally)

converted to Christianity, and were under the government of

the nearest authorities ; and all of them spoke either Portu
guese or the common language, called " Lingoa-Geral."

     But these true wild Indians of the Uaupes were at once

seen to be something totally different. They had nothing

that we call clothes ; they had peculiar ornaments, tribal

marks, etc. ; they all carried weapons or tools of their own

manufacture ; they were living in a large house, many

families together, quite unlike the hut of the tame Indians ;

but, more than all, their whole aspect and manner were

different --they were all going about their own work or

pleasure which had nothing to do with white men or their

ways ; they walked with the free step of the independent

forest-dweller, and, except the few that were known to my

companion, paid no attention whatever to us, mere strangers

of an alien race. In every detail they were original and

self-sustaining as are the wild animals of the forests, absolutely

independent of civilization, and who could and did live their

own lives in their own way, as they had done for countless

generations before America was discovered.  I could not

have believed that there would be so much difference in the

aspect of the same people in their native state and when

living under European supervision. The true denizen of the

Amazonian forests, like the forest itself, is unique and not

to be forgotten.


              H. E. WALLACE. AGE 8.
( From a pencil sketch by Miss Townsend.)

                                         [ To face p. 289, Vol. I.


HERBERT EDWARD WALLACE.                 AGE 20.
                  {From a silhouette.)

[To face p. 289, Vol.

                    CHAPTER XIX

                              "IN MEMORIAM"

                                         In memory of
                          Herbert Edward Wallace,
                    who died of yellow fever at Para, June 8, 1851,

                                             Age 22 years.

During the three or four years my brother lived at Neath

he contributed a considerable number of verses and enigmas
to the local newspapers, while some of his old notebooks
contain many others in an unfinished state. While on the

Amazon he wrote several more, and I will here give a few

samples of these, which may perhaps be thought worth
preserving, and as a memento of a young life prematurely
closed in a distant land. He was a great admirer of Hood
and of Longfellow, and several of his little poems are reflec
tions of their writings, while the enigmas were inspired by
those of William Mackworth Praed.

    The only two likenesses of my brother we possess are

copied here. The first is from a pencil sketch by an old
friend of the family (Miss Townsend), taken at Hoddesdon
when he was about eight years old, which was always con
sidered a striking likeness. The other is a copy of a black

silhouette taken before he came out to the Amazon in 1849,

when he was just twenty years old.
    My lamented friend Dr. Spruce kindly sent me two letters

he received from my brother in the interval between our

parting at Santarem and his return to Para, and as they are

VOL. I.  289  U

290                        MY LIFE                     [Chap.

probably the last he ever wrote I give them here (omitting

one or two personal matters) in order to show his usual good
spirits and random style of writing.

                                                                     "Barra, March 15, 1850.

    "Dear Sir,

           "A lodge is gained at last. Here we are in a

Barra !

                          ' Here we work with Net and Trigger
                           By the famous river Nigger,'

on whose midnight waters never is heard the hum of the
sanguinary carapana,1 where 'sleep, which knits up the
ravelled sleeve of care,' hath no intruder. By-the-by,

talking of sleep reminds me of rede's.* All the red6s in

Barra possess a title. Why? Because they are Barra-nets.

This you may think far-fetched. Well ! I will own 'tis

rather distant ; perhaps you would like one a little nearer ?
Good. As we left Obydos, remarking the woody declivity
on our right, the following sublime comparative similitude

·····burst forth spontaneously. Why is this hill like a dead

body running? Because, says I --but no! you must really
try to guess it ; however, I will enclose the answer to refer

to in case of failure. [See p. 291.]

                ·

     " With best wishes for your health and success, and kind
remembrances to Mr. King and Santarem friends.

                                 " I remain, yours respectfully

                                           "Edward Wallace."

     " Dear Sir,     just  returned  "Serpa, December  29, 185a
                                     from a month's    excursion
            "I have

among the lakes and byways of the mighty Amazon, and

whilst reposing my weary limbs amid the luxurious folds of

a red<£, drinking a fragrant cup of the sober beverage, and

     1 CarapanA is the native name of the mosquito.
     * Redf or net, the local name for "hammock."

XIX] "IN MEMORIAM"                                   291

meditating (but cheerfully) upon the miseries of human

nature, I received notice of your arrival in the Barra.

     " So you have at last gained that ' lodge ' so long pic

tured in the vista of imagination. You are at last in that·
Promised Land --a land flowing with caxaga and farinha ; 1
a land where a man may literally, and safely, sleep without
breeches --a luxury which must be enjoyed to be appreciated.

     " I am now waiting for a passage to Para, from thence to

return to England. There is a vessel caulking here I expect
will go in two or three weeks. I have a small collection of

birds and butterflies, but new species of the latter are very

·*···scarce.
     " The Christmas festa is now over, and this little village

has resumed its wonted tranquillity. I suppose you intend

soon to proceed up the Rio Negro ; no doubt my brother is

now glorying in ornithological rarities, and revelling amid

the sweets of lepidopterous loveliness. But enough ! A

little while and the wintry sea is roaring around my pillow ;

then shall I envy you in your snug redes far from the restless

billow; then, whilst vainly endeavouring to swallow pre

served salmon or other ship luxury, I shall long for my

Amazonian appetite and roasted pirarucu ; then       But I
will not anticipate hours which are inevitable. I hope your
self and Mr. King are in good health. In this respect I have

no cause to complain. Wishing you both a prosperous and a
                 I
pleasant  time,     must  now  remain,
                                " Yours
                                         sincerely,
                               "Edward Wallace."

    It is evident from this letter that the usual dilatoriness

and difficulties of Amazonian travel delayed his arrival at
Para about four months beyond the time he calculated on.
The answer to the enigma in the first letter, which he says he

has enclosed, I did not receive ; but I have no doubt it is as

follows: "Because it is a corpse (copse) sloping away from

                                   1 Native rum and mandioca meal.

292                    MY LIFE                          [Chap.

the town." " Slope,"   " sloping," were   at that time    slang
words for escaping or  running away, "   understanded   by the

people," which perhaps they may not be now. I may add

here that he did not like the name Herbert  (his first name),

and so took to his second --Edward.

    The friends of temperance often complain of the want of

a good song. I think the following, written by my brother

about 1848, may perhaps be considered suitable till a better
one is written :--

                               " The Cup of Tea.

                                                 1.

     " Some love to sip their Burgundy,

          And some prefer Champagne ;
       Some like the wines of sunny France,

          And some the grape of Spain.
       There's some will take their brandy neat,

          While others mix with water ;
       There's some drink only Indian ale,

          And others London porter.
      Away with poisons such as these,

          No Alcohol for me !
      Oh, fill me up the sober cup,

          The social cup of Tea.

                                                  11.

      " Some love to sing of ancient times,
           And drinking customs preach ;

        Such customs are -- as Shakespeare saith --
            More honoured in the breach ;

        For we can sing a joyous song
           Without the aid of wine,

        And court the muse without a glass
          To spur the lagging rhyme.

        Then take the pledge, be one of us,
           And join our melody --

       ' Oh, fill me up the sober cup,
           The social cup of Tea.'

                            III.
     " We pray for that long-wished-for hour

          When Bacchus shall be slain,
       John Barleycorn be trodden down

          And ne'er rise up again ;

XIX]       "IN MEMORIAM"                   293

      When man, begun to know himself,
         Shall maddening bowls resign,

      And Temperance, with a mighty hand,
         ' Dash down the Samian wine.'

      Here's to the death of Alcohol !
         And still our song shall be,

      ' Oh, fill me up the sober cup,
         The social cup of Tea.' "

     The next verses, suggested by a well-known old song,
show his early love of humanity and aspirations for an im

proved social state. It was probably written at Neath about

1847 or 1848.

                    "The Light of Days to Come.

                     " The light of other days is faded,
                           But we will not repine,

                        Nor waste the precious hours as they did,
                           The dwellers in that time.

                        We will not sign in gloom and sadness
                              O'er what can ne'er return,

                        But rather share the mirth and gladness
                        In the light we now discern.

                     " The past brought luxury and pleasure
                        To few beneath the sun,

                       But equal all shall share the treasure
                        Of the light of days to come.

                        Knowledge shall strengthen each endeavour
                        To set the future right,

                       And Justice with her sword shall sever
                           The iron hand of Might.

                     " The fields where warriors have commanded,
                           And men have fought for fame,

                       Shall in a future age be branded
                        With an inglorious name.

                       Bright souls who perish unassuming,
                          Your work is not yet done,

                       Like scattered seed your deeds shall bloom in
                          The Light of days to come."

   I preserve the following fantastic little poem because it so

well describes the mode of house-building of the dwellers in

294  MY LIFE  [Chap.

the grand equatorial forests which supply so many of man's

wants in a way unknown in the colder climes.

                              "The Indian's Hut.

                     " 'Twas on the mighty Amazon,
                           We floated with the tide,

                        While steep and flowery were the banks
                           That rose on either side,

                       And where the green bananas grow,
                        An Indian's cot I spied.

                   " Like to the halls of Solomon,
                           Yon humble dwelling rose,

                        Without the grating of the saw
                           Or echoing hammers blows ;

                     For all its parts are bound with rope,
                           Which in the forest grows.

                   " Those wild fantastic slender cords
                           Which hang from branches high,

                       The place of staple, screw, and nail,
                           With equal strength supply,

                       And pole and rafter firm and fast
                        All silently they tie.

                   " All silently, for stake and pole
                           Were sharpened where they grew ;

                        And where the house was built, no axe
                           Was lifted up to hew,

                        But slow and still the Indian worked,
                         His wife and children too.

                     " ' Oh, for a lodge ! ' thus Cowper cried ;
                           And here's a peaceful home,

                   A quiet spot, a calm retreat,

                           Where care can seldom come.
                        Adieu ! thOu silent Indian cot,

                         My fate it is to roam."

    I give the following verses on the Cayman or Alligator of
the Amazon because I remember how pleased my brother

was with the quotation from Macbeth, which so aptly applies
to this dangerous reptile.

XIX]             "IN MEMORIAM                                295

                  " Song of the Cayman.

                                   (Written, 185a)

          " ' Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold :

      Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
      Which thou dost glare with.'

           " I bask in the waveless waters
                 When the sun is shining on high,

              Watching the Indian children
                With a grim and greedy eye ;

              Woe to the careless bather

               Who ventures where I lie.

           " I float on the midnight waters
                 With my deathly demon head ;

              My skin is an iron armour
                 Which flattens the hunter's lead ;

              And my eyes are a living terror,
                  Glassy as those of the dead.

           " I hear the house-dog prowling,
                  And without a ripple sink ;

               Down to the stream he cometh
                  And enters the water to drink,

               I rise again as noiseless
                 And seize him on the brink.

           " I dwell not in rushing waters,
                  But in woodland pool and lake,

               Where the cowfish and the turtle
                  Lie sleeping 'neath the brake ;

              I seize the senseless dreamers,
                And a merry meal I make.

           " Midnight deeds have I witness'd,

                  But never shudder'd to see.
               Tremble not, thou murderer pale !

                  Go ! leave the corpse to me,
               And not a hair or a whiten'd bone

                I'll leave to speak of thee."

    I preserve the next little poem because I feel sure that

the first three verses were inspired by the memories of his

childhood, while the conclusion indicates those deeper
feelings still more dominant in that which follows it.

296        MY LIFE                       [Chat.

                 " Voices.

     " I remember voices
           In my early home,

        Pleasant and familiar,
           Breathed in sweetest tone --

     " Little manly voices,
           Brothers then were near,

        Soft and kindly voices ;
           Of my sisters dear.

     " Grave and tender voices,
           Voices now no more,

        In the ear of childhood
           Whispered golden lore.

     " I remember voices,
           Tones of later years,

        Passionate and tearful,
           Full of hopes and fears.

     " Eloquent and earnest,

            Seeming firm and true,
       Trusting to these voices

           I've had cause to rue.

     " Friendship's voice deceived me,
           And the maid I loved,

       Vain of wealth and beauty,
           False and fickle proved.

     " I remember voices,
          Now I hear but one,

       The silent voice within me
          Speaks to me alone --

     " ' Calm amid the tempests,
          Live in peace with me,

       Thou shalt learn Earth's wisdom
          And Heaven's mystery.'"

     The following poem is probably the last written by my
brother. There is no draft or note of it in his rough note
book, and it is written out carefully on a sheet of thin letter-
paper which he probably obtained in Para. It was there

fore almost certainly written during the two weeks before his

fatal illness.

XIX]  IN MEMORIAM  297

                       " Our Better Moments.

                   " Uncalled they come across the mind,
                         We know not why or how,

                      And with instinctive reverence
                         Ignoble feelings bow :

                   A power strange, yet holy too,

                            Breathes through our every sense ;
                      Each atom of our being feels

                         Its subtle influence.
                     High visions, noble thinkings, flash

                         Like meteors through the brain,

                If Paradise was lost to us,

                      'Tis surely come again !
 Better moments ! Better moments ! Ye are sunny angels' wings,
 Sent to shed a holier radiance o'er all dim and worldly things.

                  " Perchance we love to watch awhile,
                        In simple child-like mood,

                    The waving of the summer grass,
                        The ebbing of the flood,

                     Or lie upon a mossy bank
                      In some secluded shade,

                    When sudden, from before our gaze,
                        The grass -- the waters fade ;

                    And giving up our being's rein
                     To unknown guiding hands,

                    We float in passive confidence
                     To voiceless spirit lands.

Better moments ! Better moments ! Ye are sunny angels' wings,
Sent to shed a holier radiance o'er all dim and worldly things.

                 " Or sitting in a leafy wood,
                       Some still and breathless hour,

                    The joyous twitter of a bird
                       Has strange unconscious power ;

                    The power to send through ev'ry nerve
                     A thrill of soft delight ;

                  A better moment, like the dawn,
                       Steals in with ambient light ;

                    The soul expands, and lovingly
                       Takes in its pure embrace,

                  All life 1 all nature ! high or mean,
                     Of colour, tongue, or race.

Better moments ! Better moments ! Ye are sunny angels' wings,
Sent to shed a holier radiance o'er all dim and worldly things.

298  MY LIFE                                 [Chap.

     " A thousand various scenes and tones

     Awake the better thought,

     By which our duller years of life

     Become inspired and taught.

     In olden times there rudely came

     Handwriting on the wall,

     And prostrate souls fell horror-struck

        At that wild spirit-call ;
     But now God's momentary gleam

        Is sent into the soul
     To guide uncertain wavering feet

        To Life's high solemn goal.

     Better moments ! Better moments ! Ye are sunny angels' wings,

     Sent to shed a holier radiance o'er all dim and worldly things."

    Of the numerous versified enigmas he wrote, I print four

of the best. They may interest some of my younger readers.

They are not difficult to guess, but I give the solutions at the

end.

     Enigmas.

     " There was a Spanish gentleman
          Of high and noble mien,

       Who riding into Seville's town
           One summer's eve was seen ;

       He came among us suddenly,
           And vanished as he came ;

       We only knew him as my First,
           But never knew his name.

     " We saw him at the opera,
           We met him at the ball,

       The very point of chivalry
          A pattern for us all ;

       And oft upon my Second seen
           Where Seville's beauties came,

       But still we knew him as my First,
          And did not know his name.

     /" Twas who brought that gentleman
           From out another clime,
       'Twas I upon my Second stood
           With skins of smuggled wine ;

XIX]       "IN MEMORIAM"                                       299

      And ye were duller far than me,
         Proud gentlemen of Spain,

      To only know him as my First,
         And never know his name.''

                                         II.

                                      (Written in 1847.)

      " Know ye my Second, the green and the beautiful,
           Sitting alone by the sea,

        Weeping in sadness o'er children undutiful,
           Woe-worn and pallid is she.

      " For skeleton famine is rapidly striding,
           Blasting the fruits of the earth,

        Many a hovel his victims have died in,
           Cursing the hour of their birth.

      " Ah ! my First from the heavens has darkly descended,
            Wrapping the earth in its gloom ;

        The dying lie helpless by corpses extended,
            Sullenly waiting their doom.

      " And the living watch hopeless the dead and the dying,
           All gentler feelings have fled ;

        They know not -- an hour and they may be lying
             Outstretched, and cold with the dead.

      " To see their blank features so set and despairing,
           To gaze on those dark, tearless eyes

        Which look into vacancy listlessly staring,
            Might humble the great and the wise.

      " Ah ! the great and the wise ! can no way be suggested
            By the mighty in power and in soul,

         To banish the curse that too long has rested

           A shade and a fear on my Whole ? "

                               III.

      " There stood by the stake a sable form,
            His grimy arms were bare,

        A heavy sledge on his shoulder swung
           That had fashioned many a share,

        And his dark eyes shone like fiery sparks
            From the red-hot iron's glare.

300  MY LIFE                                                [Chap.

     " Open the way ! Fall back ! Fall back !
           And let the victim through,

       To the mocking chant of the bigot priest
           And the muffled drums tattoo ;

       They have tortured him long, but his spirit strong,
           Ne'er cowed 'neath rack or screw.

     " My First stepped forth and grasped his arm

          (He felt no muscle shake),
       And led him within the fatal ring ;

           Nor then did his victim quake,
       When a chain was riveted to his waist,

           And round the fatal stake.

     " He had seen my Second red with blood
          Of friend and foe and steed,

       He had looked on death in every form,
          He had seen a father bleed ;

       The flames of my Whole were a terrible goal,
           But he could not renounce his creed."

                                         IV.

                               (August, 1849.)

     " She stood upon the scaffold
          With a firm, undaunted mien,

       Condemned to die a shameful death,
           But yesterday a Queen !

       Ill-fated Jane, how brief thy reign !
           How dark thy closing scene 1

     " She fearless gazes on my First
          With sable trappings hung,

       And to the bright and glittering axe
          She speaks with jesting tongue':

       ' Fear not to fall, my neck is small,
          Thy work is quickly done.'

     " Where are the eyes that fearless gazed ?
          Their lustre now is fled.

       Where is the tongue where hung the jest ?
          Inanimate and dead.

       The snowy neck she used to deck,
          The axe has left it red.

               IN MEMORIAM"

    " A ghastly sight it is to see
         My Second bleeding there,

       Distorted now those features, erst
          So perfect and so fair ;

       No art can dress that gory tress
         Of dark, luxuriant hair.

                  * · » *·

   " This is a scene from history's page,
          The triumph of might and wrong ;

      That barbarous age has passed away
          With the power of the proud and strong ;

      But still in our day by law we slay
         To teach the erring throng.

   " To show our abhorrence of shedding blood
          We send the murderer's soul,

      Unfit, I ween, to meet his judge,
         To a last and awful goal.

       He who can draw good from such law
          Must be my senseless Whole."

            Solutions of the Enigmas.

Donkey. 2. Ireland. 3. Smithfield. 4. Blockhead.

                   CHAPTER XX

             IN LONDON, AND VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE

Among the letters preserved and kindly returned to me by
Dr. Spruce is one partly written on board ship on my way
home, giving an account of my somewhat adventurous voyage
while it was fresh in my memory, and containing some details
not given in the narrative in my " Travels on the Amazon."

I will therefore print it here, as no part of it has yet been

made public.

                         " Brig Jordeson, N. Lat. 490 30', W. Long. 200.
                                                            "Sunday, September 19, 1852.

    "My dear Friend,

               " Having now some prospect of being home in a

week or ten days, I will commence giving you an account of

the peculiar circumstances which have already kept me at sea
seventy days on a voyage which took us only twenty-nine

days on our passage out. I hope you have received the letter

sent you from Para, dated July 9 or 10, in which I informed

you that I had taken my passage in a vessel bound for
London, which was to sail in a few days. On Monday, July

12, 1 went on board with all my cargo, and some articles pur
chased or collected on my way down, with the remnant
(about twenty) of my live stock.1 After being at sea about

a week I had a slight attack of fever, and at first thought I

had got the yellow fever after all. However, a little calomel

     1 These consisted of numerous parrots and parrakeets, and several uncommon
monkeys, a forest wild-dog, etc.

                                                                     303

[Chap. XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 303

set me right in a few days, but I remained rather weak, and

spent most of my time reading in the cabin, which was very
comfortable. On Friday, August 6, we were in N. Lat. 300 30',

W. Long. 5 2°, when, about nine in the morning, just after

breakfast, Captain Turner, who was half-owner of the vessel,
came into the cabin, and said, ' I'm afraid the ship's on fire.
 Come and see what you think of it.' Going on deck I found
 a thick smoke coming out of the forecastle, which we both
 thought more like the steam from heating vegetable matter
 than the smoke from a fire. The fore hatchway was im

 mediately opened to try and ascertain the origin of the
 smoke, and a quantity of cargo was thrown out, but the

 smoke continuing without any perceptible increase, we went
 to the after hatchway, and after throwing out a quantity of
 piassaba, with which the upper part of the hold was filled,

  the smoke became so dense that the men could not stay in
  it. Most of them were then set to work throwing in buckets
  of water, and the rest proceeded to the cabin and opened the

  lazaretto or store-place beneath its floor, and found smoke

  issuing from the bulkhead separating it from the hold, which
  extended halfway under the fore part of the cabin. Attempts
  were then made to break down this bulkhead, but it resisted

  all efforts, the smoke being so suffocating as to prevent any

 one stopping in it more that a minute at a time. A hole was

  then cut in the cabin floor, and while the carpenter was doing
  this, the rest of the crew were employed getting out the boats,

  the captain looked after his chronometer, sextant, books,

  charts and compasses, and I got up a small tin box contain

  ing a few shirts, and put in it my drawings of fishes and

  palms, which were luckily at hand ; also my watch and a purse
  with a few sovereigns. Most of my clothes were scattered
  about the cabin, and in the dense suffocating smoke it was im

   possible to look about after them. There were two boats, the
  long-boat and the captain's gig, and it took a good deal of

   time to get the merest necessaries collected and put into
  them, and to lower them into the water. Two casks of biscuit
  and a cask of water were got in, a lot of raw pork and some
   ham, a few tins of preserved meats and vegetables, and some

304  MY LIFE  [Chap.

wine. Then there were corks to stop the holes in the boats,

oars, masts, sails, and rudders to be looked up, spare spars,
cordage, twine, canvas, needles, carpenter's tools, nails, etc.
The crew brought up their bags of clothes, and all were

bundled indiscriminately into the boats, which, having been

so long in the sun, were very leaky and soon became half full
of water, so that two men in each of them had to be constantly
baling out the water with buckets. Blankets, rugs, pillows,

and clothes were all soaked, and the boats seemed overloaded,

though there was really very little weight in them. All being

now prepared, the crew were again employed pouring water

in the cabin and hatchway.
     " The cargo of the ship consisted of rubber, cocoa, anatto,

balsam-capivi, and piassaba. The balsam was in small casks,
twenty stowed in sand, and twenty small kegs in rice-

chaff, immediately beneath the cabin floor, where the fire

seemed to be. For some time we had heard this bubbling
and hissing as if boiling furiously, the heat in the cabin was

very great, flame soon broke into the berths and through the

cabin floor, and in a few minutes more blazed up through

the skylight on deck. All hands were at once ordered into
the boats, which were astern of the ship. It was now about

twelve o'clock, only three hours from the time the smoke

was first discovered. I had to let myself down into the

boat by a rope, and being rather weak it slipped through
my hands and took the skin off all my fingers, and finding

the boat still half full of water I set to baling, which made

my hands smart very painfully. We lay near the ship all
the afternoon, watching the progress of the flames, which
soon covered the hinder part of the vessel and rushed up the
shrouds and sails in a most magnificent conflagration. Soon
afterwards, by the rolling of the ship, the masts broke off and
fell overboard, the decks soon burnt away, the ironwork at the
sides became red-hot, and last of all the bowsprit, being burnt
at the base, fell also. No one had thought of being hungry
till darkness came on, when we had a meal of biscuit and
raw ham, and then disposed ourselves as well as we could for
the night, which, you may be sure, was by no means a pleasant

XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 305

one. Our boats continued very leaky, and we could not cease

an instant from baling ; there was a considerable swell, though

the day had been remarkably fine, and there were constantly

floating around us pieces of the burnt wreck, masts, etc., which

might have stove in our boats had we not kept a constant look

out to keep clear of them. We remained near the ship all

night in order that we might have the benefit of its flames

attracting any vessel that might pass within sight of it.
     " It now presented a magnificent and awful sight as it rolled

over, looking like a huge caldron of fire, the whole cargo of
rubber, etc., forming a liquid burning mass at the bottom. In

the morning our little masts and sails were got up, and we

bade adieu to the Helen, now burnt down to the water's

edge, and proceeded with a light east wind towards the

Bermudas, the nearest land, but which were more than seven

hundred miles from us. As we were nearly in the track of

West Indian vessels, we expected to fall in with some ship

in a few days.

    " I cannot attempt to describe my feelings and thoughts
during these events. I was surprised to find myself very
cool and collected. I hardly thought it possible we should
escape, and I remember thinking it almost foolish to save my

watch and the little money I had at hand. However, after

being in the boats some days I began to have more hope,

and regretted not having saved some new shoes, cloth coat

and trousers, hat, etc., which I might have done with a little

trouble. My collections, however, were in the hold, and were
irretrievably lost. And now I began to think that almost all

the reward of my four years of privation and danger was lost.

What I had hitherto sent home had little more than paid my
expenses, and what I had with me in the Helen I estimated

would have realized about £500. But even all this might
have gone with little regret had not by far the richest part of

my own private collection gone also. All my private col
lection of insects and birds since I left Para was with me,

and comprised hundreds of new and beautiful species, which

would have rendered (I had fondly hoped) my cabinet, as far
as regards American species, one of the finest in Europe,

VOL. L  X

306          MY LIFE  [Chap.

Fancy your regrets had you lost all your Pyrenean mosses

on your voyage home, or should you now lose all your South

American collection, and you will have some idea of what I

suffer. But besides this, I have lost a number of sketches,

drawings, notes, and observations on natural history, besides

the three most interesting years of my journal, the whole of

which, unlike any pecuniary loss, can never be replaced ; so

you will see that I have some need of philosophic resigna

tion to bear my fate with patience and equanimity.
     " Day after day we continued in the boats. The winds

changed, blowing dead from the point to which we wanted

to go. We were scorched by the sun, my hands, nose, and

ears being completely skinned, and were drenched continually

by the seas or spray. We were therefore almost constantly

wet, and had no comfort and little sleep at night. Our

meals consisted of raw pork and biscuit, with a little

preserved meat or carrots once a day, which was a great

luxury, and a short allowance of water, which left us as

thirsty as before directly after we had drunk it. Ten days

and ten nights we spent in this manner. We were still two

hundred miles from Bermuda, when in the afternoon a vessel

was seen, and by eight in the evening we were on board her,

much rejoiced to have escaped a death on the wide ocean,

whence none would have come to tell the tale. The ship

was the Jordeson, bound for London, and proves to be one

of the slowest old ships going. With a favourable wind and

all sail set, she seldom does more than five knots, her average

being two or three, so that we have had a most tedious time

of and even now cannot calculate with any certainty as toit,

when we shall arrive. Besides this, she was rather short of

provisions, and as our arrival exactly doubled her crew, we

were all obliged to be put on strict allowance of bread, meat,
Aand water.
             little ham and butter of the captain's were soon

used up, and we have been now for some time on the poorest

of fare. We have no suet, butter, or raisins with which to

make 'duff,' or even molasses, and barely enough sugar to

sweeten our tea or coffee, which we take with dry, coarse

biscuit, and for dinner, beef or pork of the very worst quality

XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 307

I have ever eaten or even imagined to exist. This, repeated

day after day without any variation, beats even Rio Negro
fare, rough though it often was. About a week after we were

picked up we spoke and boarded an outward-bound ship,
and got from her some biscuits, a few potatoes, and some
salt cod, which were a great improvement, but did not last
long. We have also occasionally caught some dolphin and
a few fish resembling the acarras of the Rio Negro ; but for

some time now we have seen none, so that I am looking for

ward to the ' flesh-pots of Egypt ' with as much pleasure as
when we were luxuriating daily on farinha and ' fiel amigo.' 1
While we were in the boats we had generally fine weather,

though with a few days and nights squally and with a heavy
sea, which made me often tremble for our safety, as we heeled

over till the water poured in over the boat's side. We had
almost despaired of seeing any vessel, our circle of vision
being so limited ; but we had great hopes of reaching Ber
muda, though it is doubtful if we should have done so, the
neighbourhood of those islands being noted for sudden squalls
and hurricanes, and it was the time of year when the hurri
canes most frequently occur. Having never seen a great gale
or storm at sea, I had some desire to witness the phenomenon,
and have now been completely gratified. The first we had
about a fortnight ago. In the morning there was a strong
breeze and the barometer had fallen nearly half an inch during

the night and continued sinking, so the captain commenced

taking in sail, and while getting in the royals and studding-
sails, the wind increased so as to split the mainsail, fore-top

sail, fore-trysail, and jib, and it was some hours before they

could be got off her, and the main-topsail and fore-sail double
reefed. We then went flying along, the whole ocean a mass of
boiling foam, the crests of the waves being carried in spray
over our decks. The sea did not get up immediately, but by
night it was very rough, the ship plunging and rolling most
fearfully, the sea pouring in a deluge over the top of her bul
warks, and sometimes up over the cabin skylight. The next

   "1 This was the name given by our kind host, Senor Henrique, at Barra to dried

pirarucii, meaning faithful friend," always at hand when other food failed.

308  MY LIFE                    [Chap.

morning the wind abated, but the ship, which is a very old

one, took in a deal of water, and the pumps were kept going

nearly the whole day to keep her dry. During this gale the

wind went completely round the compass, and then settled

nearly due east, where it pertinaciously continued for twelve

days, keeping us tacking about, and making less than forty

miles a day against it. Three days ago we had another gale,

more severe than the former one --a regular equinoctial, which

lasted two entire days and nights, and split one of the newest

and strongest sails on the ship. The rolling and plunging

were fearful, the bowsprit going completely under water, and

the ship being very heavily laden with mahogany, fustic, and

other heavy woods from Cuba, strained and creaked tre

mendously, and leaked to that extent that the pumps were

obliged to be kept constantly going, and their continued
click-clack, click-clack all through the night was a most dis

agreeable and nervous sound. One day no fire could be

made owing to the sea breaking continually into the galley,

so we had to eat a biscuit for our dinner ; and not a moment's
rest was to be had, as we were obliged to be constantly hold

ing on, whether standing, sitting, or lying, to prevent being

pitched about by the violent plunges and lurches of the

vessel. The gale, however, has now happily passed, and we

have a fine breeze from the north-west, which is taking us
along six or seven knots--quicker than we have ever gone
yet. Among our other disagreeables here we have no fresh

·····water to spare for washing, and as I only saved a couple of

shirts, they are in a state of most uncomfortable dirtiness,

but I console myself with the thoughts of a glorious warm

bath when I get on shore.

                ·

     " October I. Oh, glorious day ! Here we are on shore at

Deal, where the ship is at anchor. Such a dinner, with our

two captains ! Oh, beef-steaks and damson tart, a paradise
for hungry sinners.

     « »*»· ·
     I"October 5, London. Here
                                am laid up with swelled

ankles, my legs not being able to stand work after such a

XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 309

long rest in the ship. I cannot write now at any length -- I

have too much to think about. We had a narrow escape in

the Channel. Many vessels were lost in a storm on the night
of September 29, but we escaped. The old ' Iron Duke ' is
dead. The Crystal Palace is being pulled down, and is

being rebuilt on a larger and improved plan by a company.
Loddige's collection of plants has been bought entire to
stock and they think by heating in the centre to get
gradation of climates, so as to be able to have the plants of
   it,                              it                          a! a

      I

                    is
different countries, tropical or temperate, in one undivided
building. This Paxton's plan.

     " How begin to envy you in that glorious country where

'  the sun shines for ever unchangeably bright,' where farinha

abounds, and of bananas and plantains there no lack
                                                    is
Fifty times since left Para have vowed,    iIf      once reached
                  I             II                    I

England, never to trust myself more on the ocean. But

good resolutions soon fade, and am already only doubtful

whether the Andes or the Philippines are to be the scene of

my next wanderings. However, for six months am

fixture here in London, as am determined to make up for
                             I

lost time by enjoying myself as much as possible for awhile.
  am fortunate in having about £200 insured by Mr. Stevens'
I
     I

               I
foresight, so must be contented, though    it       very hard to

                                                is

have nothing to show of what took so much pains to
                                I

procure.

    " trust you are well and successful. Kind remembrances

to everybody, everywhere, and particularly to the respectable

Senhor  Joao  de  Lima of    Sao Joachim.
                     " Your  very sincere
                                           friend,
                                "Alfred R. Wallace."

   Some of the most alarming incidents, to landsman, are
                                           in
not mentioned either in this letter or        a     my published

" Narrative." The captain had given the only berths in the

cabin to Captain Turner and myself, he sleeping on sofa in
                                                    a

fine weather, and on mattress on the floor of the cabin when
                        a

rough. On the worst night of the storm saw him, to my
                                           it

                                              I
surprise, bring down an axe and lay beside him, and on

310                         MY LIFE           [Chip.

asking what it was for, he replied, " To cut away the masts in
case we capsize in the night." In the middle of the night a

great sea smashed our skylight and poured in a deluge of

water, soaking the poor captain, and then slushing from side

to side with every roll of the ship. Now, I thought, our time
is come ; and I expected to see the captain rush up on deck

with his axe. But he only swore a good deal, sought out a
dry coat and blanket, and then lay down on the sofa as if

nothing had happened. So I was a little reassured.

     Not less alarming was the circumstance of the crew

coming aft in a body to say that the forecastle was unin

habitable as it was constantly wet, and several of them

brought handfuls of wet rotten wood which they could pull

out in many places. This happened soon after the first gale

began ; so the two captains and I went to look, and we saw

sprays and squirts of water coming in at the joints in numerous

places, soaking almost all the men's berths, while here and

there we could see the places where they had pulled out rotten

wood with their fingers. The captain then had the sail-room

amid-ships cleared out for the men to sleep in for the rest of

the voyage.

     One day in the height of the storm, when we were being

flooded with spray and enormous waves were coming up

behind us, Captain Turner and I were sitting on the poop in

the driest place we could find, and, as a bigger wave than

usual rolled under us and dashed over our sides, he said
Ifquietly to me, " we are pooped by one of those waves we
                             "                " We were not very
shall  go  to  the  bottom      then  added,
                            ;

safe in our two small boats, but I had rather be back in them

where we were picked up than in this rotten old tub." It
I
         I

                                   a
                                      a
                                                             a

                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                       is,
therefore, think, quite evident that we did have very
narrow escape. Yet this unseaworthy old ship, which ought

to have been condemned years before, had actually taken

Government stores out to Halifax, had there been patched up,

and sent to Cuba for cargo of heavy timber, which we were

bringing home.

       may here make few remarks on the cause of the

fire, which at the time was quite mystery to us. We learnt

XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 311

afterwards that balsam-capivi is liable to spontaneous com

bustion by the constant motion on a voyage, and it is for that

reason that it is always carried in small kegs and imbedded
in damp sand in the lowest part of the hold. Captain Turner
had never carried any before, and knew nothing of its

properties, and when at the last moment another boat-load

of small kegs of balsam came with no sand to pack them in,

he used rice-chaff which was at hand, and which he thought

would do as well ; and this lot was stored under the cabin
floor, where the flames first burst through and where the fire,

no doubt, originated.

Captain Turner had evidently had no experience of fire

in a ship's cargo, and took quite the wrong way in the

attempt to deal with it. By opening the hatchways to pour

in water he admitted an abundance of air, and this was what
Ifchanged a smouldering heat into actual fire.
                                                  he had at

once set all hands at work caulking up every crack through

which smoke came out, making the hatchways also air-tight

by nailing tarpaulines over them, no flame could have been

produced, or could have spread far, and the heat due to the

decomposition of the balsam would have been gradually

diffused through the cargo, and in all probability have done

no harm. A few years later a relative of mine returning

home from Australia had a somewhat similar experience, in

which the captain adopted this plan and saved the ship.

When in the Indian Ocean some portion of the cargo was

found to be on fire, by smoke coming out as in our case. But

the captain immediately made all hatches and bulkheads air

tight ; then had the boats got out and prepared for the worst,
towing them astern ; but he reached Mauritius in safety, and

was there able to extinguish the fire and save the greater

part of the cargo.

On the receipt of my letter Dr. Spruce, who was then,

I think, somewhere on the Rio Negro or Uaupes, wrote to

the "Joao de  Lima," referred to by me     (and   usually  men
              " Travels " as Senhor L.),  giving   him a   short
tioned in my

account of my voyage home ; and a few months later he

received a reply from him. He was a Portuguese trader who

312                       MY LIFE  [Chat.

had been many years resident in the upper Rio Negro, on
whose boat I took a passage for my first voyage up the river,

and with whom I lived a long time at Guia. I also went

with him on my first voyage up the river Uaupes. He was

a fairly educated man, and had an inexhaustible fund of
anecdotes of his early life in Portugal, and would also relate
many " old-time " stories, usually of the grossest kind, some
what in the style of Rabelais, or of Chaucer's coarsest Canter

bury tales. Old Jeronymo was a quiet old man, a half-bred
Indian, or Mameluco as they were called, who lived with
Senhor Lima as a humble dependent, assisting him in his

business and making himself generally useful. It was these

two who were with me during my terrible fever, and who one

night gave me up as certain not to live till morning. Dr.
Spruce gave me this letter, and as it mainly refers to me,
I will here give a nearly literal translation of it.

     " ILLUSTRISSIMO                           " San Joaquim, June 7, 1853.

            " I received  SENHOR RlCARDO SPRUCE,
                          your greatly esteemed favour dated the

26th April last, and was rejoiced to hear of your honour's health

and all the news that you give me, and I was much grieved

at the misfortunes which befell our good friend Alfredo !
My dear Senhor Spruce, what labours he performed for man

kind, and what trouble to lose all his work of four years ;

but yet his life is saved, and that is the most precious for a

man ! Do me the favour, when you write to Senhor Alfredo,

to give my kind remembrances. The mother of my children

also begs you to give her remembrances to Senhor Alfredo,

also tell him from me that if he ever comes to these parts
again he will find that I shall be to him the same Lima as

before, and give him more remembrances from the bottom of

my heart, and also to yourself, from
                    " Yours, with much affection and respect,

                                    "Joao Antonio de Lima.

    " N.B. --Old Jeronymo also asks you to remember him to
Senhor Alfredo, and to tell him that he still has the shirt

XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 313

that Senhor Alfredo gave him, and that he is still living a
poor wanderer with his friend Lima."

       On reaching London in the condition described in my

letter to Dr. Spruce, and my only clothing a suit of the
thinnest calico, I was met by my kind friend and agent, Mr.
Samuel Stevens, who took me first to the nearest ready-made
clothes shop, where I got a warm suit, then to his own tailor,
where I was measured for what clothes I required, and

afterwards to a haberdasher's to get a small stock of other
 necessaries. Having at that time no relatives in London, his

mother, with whom he lived in the south of London -- I think
 in Kennington --had invited me to stay with her. Here I

 lived most comfortably for a week, enjoying the excellent
 food and delicacies Mrs. Stevens provided for me, which
 quickly restored me to my usual health and vigour.

      Since I left home, and after my brother John had gone to

  California in 1849, my sister had married Mr. Thomas Sims,
 the elder son of my former host at Neath. Mr. Sims had
 taught himself the then rapidly advancing art of photography,
  and as my sister could draw very nicely in water-colours,
  they had gone to live at Weston-super-Mare, and established

 a small photographic business. As I wished to be with my
 sister and mother during my stay in England, I took a house

  then vacant in Upper Albany Street (No. 44), where there
  was then no photographer, so that we might all live together.

  While it was getting ready I took lodgings next door, as the

  situation was convenient, being close to the Regent's Park
   and Zoological Gardens, and also near the Society's offices in
   Hanover Square, and within easy access to Mr. Stevens's office

  close to the old British Museum. At Christmas we were all
  comfortably settled, and I was able to begin the work which
  I had determined to do before again leaving England.

       In the small tin box which I had saved from the wreck
   I fortunately had a set of careful pencil drawings of all the
   different species of palms I had met with, together with notes
   as to their distribution and uses. I had also a large number

   of drawings of fish, as already stated, carefully made to scale,

314  MY LIFE  [Chap.

with notes of their colours, their dentition, and their fin-rays

scales, etc. I had also a folio Portuguese note-book contain

ing my diary while on the Rio Negro, and some notes and
observations made for a map of that river and the Uaupes.
With these scanty materials, helped by the letters I had sent

home, I now set to work to write an account of my travels, as
well as a few scientific papers for which I had materials in the

portion of my collections made in Para, Santarem, and the

Lower Rio Negro. These I had sent off before leaving Barra

on my first voyage up the Rio Negro, and they had arrived

home safely ; but I had reserved all my private collections
for comparison with future discoveries, and though I left

these to be sent home before starting on my second voyage

up the Rio Negro, they were never despatched, owing to the

Custom House authorities at Barra insisting on seeing the

contents before allowing them to go away. I therefore found

them at Barra on my way home, and they were all lost with

the ship.

    I had sent home in 1850 a short paper on the Umbrella

Bird, then almost unknown to British ornithologists, and it

was printed in the Zoological Society's Proceedings for that
year. The bird is in size and general appearance like a

short-legged crow, being black with metallic blue tints on
the outer margins of the feathers. Its special peculiarity is
its wonderful crest. This is formed of a quantity of slender

straight feathers, which grow on the contractile skin of the
top of the head. The shafts of these feathers are white, with

a tufted plume at the end, which is glossy blue and almost
hair-like. When the bird is flying or feeding the crest is laid
back, forming a compact white mass sloping a little upward,

with the terminal plumes forming a tuft behind ; but when

at rest the bird expands the crest, which then forms an
elongated dome of a fine, glossy, deep blue colour, extending

beyond the beak, and thus completely masking the head.
This dome is about five inches long by four or four and a half
inches wide. Another almost equally remarkable feature is a
long cylindrical plume of feathers depending from the lower
part of the neck. These feathers grow on a fleshy tube as

XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 315

thick as a goose-quill, and about an inch and a half long.

They are large and overlap each other, with margins of a
fine metallic blue. The whole skin of the neck is very loose

and extensible, and when the crest is expanded the neck is

inflated, and the cylindrical neck-ornament hangs down in

front of it. The effect of these two strange appendages when

the bird is at rest and the head turned backwards must be

to form an irregular ovate black mass with neither legs, beak,

nor eyes visible, so as to be quite unlike any living thing. It

may thus be a protection against arboreal carnivora, owls, etc.is is,

It undoubtedly, one of the most extraordinary of birds,

and an extreme form of the great family of Chatterers, which

are peculiar to tropical America. Strange to say,          it          rather
                                                              is

nearly allied to the curious white bell-bird, so different in

colour, but also possessing  fleshy erectile appendage from
                I
the base of the upper mandible. The umbrella bird inhabitsa

the lofty forests of the islands of the lower Rio Negro, and

some portions of the flooded forests of the Upper Amazon.

About the time when was collecting these birds (January,

1850) new species {Cephalopterus glabricollis) was broughta      is
home by M. Warzewickz from Central America, where singlea           a

specimen was obtained on the mountains of Chirique at ana

elevation of eight thousand feet. This                   similar bird, and
                                               is
has crest of the same form but somewhat less developeda                is ;
                                                       aa
but the main distinction that a large patch on the neck
                is

of bare red skin, from the lower part of which hangs the

fleshy tube, also red and bare, with only few feathers,

forming small tuft at its extremity.       This          species   "  figured
in the " Proceedings of the Zoological  Society          for 1850     (p. 92),

and will serve to explain my description of the larger species

in the same volume (p. 206). Nine years later third species
was discovered in the eastern Andes of Ecuador, which more

resembles the original species, but has the feathered dewlap

so greatly developed as to be nearly as long as the wholeI is

bird. This figured in The Ibis (1859, PI. III.). The white

species which was told inhabited the Uaupes river has not

been found, and may probably have been confounded by my

informants with the white bell-bird.

3i6                MY LIFE                 [Chap.

    During the two ascents and descents of the Rio Negro
and Uaupes in 1850-1852 I took observations with a prismatic
compass, not only of the course of the canoe, but also of

every visible point, hill, house, or channel between the islands,

so as to be able to map this little known river. For the
distances I timed our journey by a good watch, and estimated

the rate of travel up or down the river, and whether paddling

or sailing. With my sextant I determined several latitudes

by altitudes of the sun, or of some of the fixed stars. The

longitudes of Barra and of San Carlos, near the mouth of the

Cassiquiare, had been determined by previous travellers, and

my aim was to give a tolerable idea of the course and width

of the river between these points, and to map the almost

unknown river Uaupds for the first four hundred miles of its

course. From these observations I made a large map to

illustrate a paper which I read before the Royal Geographical

Society. This map was reduced and lithographed to accom

pany the paper, and as it contains a good deal of information

as to the nature of the country along the banks of the rivers,

the isolated granite mountains and peaks, with an enlarged

map of the river Uaupes, showing the position of the various

cataracts I ascended, the Indian tribes that inhabit with
             is
                 a

                     it
                          is
                                    is

                                        is It

                                                     it
                                                              is

                                                                                  it,

                                                                                                               a
some of the more important vegetable products of the sur

rounding forests,  here given to illustrate this and the two

preceding chapters (see p.  "3T2r0a).vels  will also be of interest to
readers who possess my                     on the Amazon and Rio

Negro," which was published before the map was available.

     The great feature of this river its enormous width, often

fifteen or twenty miles, and its being so crowded with islands,

all densely forest-clad and often of great extent, that for

distance of nearly five hundred miles      only at rare intervals

that the northern bank visible from the southern, or vice

versd. For the first four hundred and fifty miles of its course

the country        great forest plain, the banks mostly of alluvial

clays and sands, though there are occasional patches of sand

stone. Then commences the great granitic plateau of the

upper river, with isolated mountains and rock-pillars, extend

ing over the watershed to the cataracts of the Orinoko, to the

is,XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 317
                is
mountains of Guiana, and, perhaps, in some parts up to the
                            isfoot of the Andes. The other great peculiarity of the river

ais its dark brown, or nearly black, waters, which are yet per
           afectly clear and pleasant to drink. This is due, no doubt, to
                          athe greater part of the river's basin being an enormous forest-

                             Icovered plain, and its chief tributaries flowing over granite

rocks. It in fact, of the same nature as the coffee-colouredis

waters of our Welsh and Highland streams, which have theirI

sources among peat-bogs. A delightful peculiarity of all these

black or clear water rivers that their shores are entirely free

from mosquitoes, as amusingly referred to in my brother's

letter, already quoted in Chapter XVIII.

     After my journey the river Uaup^s remained unknown to

the world for thirty years, when, in 1881 and 1882, Count

Ermanno Stradelli, after spending two years in various parts
of the Amazon valley, ascending the Purus and Jurua rivers,
visited this river to beyond the first cataracts. Having fever

he returned to Manaos (Barra), and joined an expedition to

determine the boundary between Brazil and Venezuela through

an unknown region, and descended the Rio Branco to Manaos.
 He then went voyage up the Madeira river, returning home
in 1884. In 1887 he again visited South America, ascending
the Orinoko, passed through the Cassiquiare to the Rio Negro,

 and having become much interested in the rock-pictures
 he had met with in various parts of these rivers, he again
 made voyage up the Uaupes, this time penetrating to the
Jurupari cataract, which had failed to reach, and going about

    hundred miles beyond it. This last voyage was made in
 1890-1891. His only objects seem to have been geographical
 and anthropological explorations, and he has probably ex
 plored a larger number of the great tributaries of the Amazon
 and Orinoko than any other European.

      For a knowledge of this great traveller am indebted to
 Mr. Heawood, the librarian of the Royal Geographical Society,
 who, in reply to my inquiry as to any ascents of the Uaupes
 since my journey, sent me two volumes of the Bolletino della
 Societa Geographica Italiana (1887 and 1900), which give, so
 far as he can ascertain, all that known of Count Stradelli's

3i8    MY LIFE                                                                                                [Chap.

work. This is most scanty. In the 1887 volume there is a
very short abstract of his earlier explorations, with a portion
of his journey up the Orinoko in that year. In the volume

for 1900 is an article by the Count, almost entirely devoted to
a description, with drawings, of all the rock inscriptions which

he found in the Uaupds. These drawings are very carefully

made, and are twelve in number, each representing a whole

rock surface, often containing several groups of forty or fifty

distinct figures. It is rather curious that several of the groups

in my two plates do not appear in any of the twelve plates

of Count Stradelli. Besides these drawings there are several

large scale sketch-plans of the portions of the river where they

were found, mostly at cataracts or rapids where there are

large exposed rock surfaces. The map showing the first three

cataracts well illustrates the description of them given at
p. 197 of my " Travels." But besides these sketch-plans
there is a large folding map of the Uaup^s, drawn by Count
Stradelli from " compass " bearings during this last journey.

There is no reference whatever to this map by the Count

himself, except the statement on the title that it is by
" compass " observations, as was mine. And as there is no

reference to any determinations of longitude the distances

could only have been ascertained by estimated rates of canoe-

travel, such as I used myself. I therefore compared the two

maps with much interest, and found some discrepancies of

considerable amount. His map is on a scale rather more

than four times that of mine ; but my original map, now in

the possession of the Geographical Society, is on a larger scale

than his. His longitude of the river's mouth is 670 mine
being 68°, more accurate determinations having now been
       is
           a

                a

                                             I
                                                                                                         5',
made than were available at the time prepared my map,
more than fifty years ago. On comparing the two maps we

see at once very close agreement in the various curves, sharp

bends, loops, and other irregularities of the river's course, so

that, omitting the minuter details, the two correspond very

satisfactorily. But when we compare the total length of the

river to my furthest point, close to the mouth of the Codiary,

there  large difference. The difference of the longitudes

XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 319

of these two points on the count's map is 2° 22', whereas on

mine it is 30 45' ; my estimate being about 60 per cent. more
than his. By measuring carefully with compasses in lengths

of five miles, with a little allowance for the minuter bends,

his distance is 315 miles, mine 494, mine being thus 55 per
cent. more.

     It is unfortunate that Count Stradelli has" given us no

information as to how he estimated his distances. In a river

flowing through a densely wooded country, with nowhere
more than a few hundred yards of clear ground on its banks,
with a very crooked and twisted course, and with a current

varying from being scarcely perceptible to such rapidity that
a whole crew of paddlers can hardly make way against
is exceedingly difficult to ascertain the rate of motion in
                                         I
                                               it,
                                                  it
miles per hour.
     Canoes of different sizes do not travel at very different

rates, when each has its complement of men, and had
taken many opportunities to ascertain this rate in still water.

Then, by noting the time occupied for particular distance,a
                                  a
say between two of the cataracts, both during the ascent and
descent of the river, the mean of the two would be the time

there were no current. Making little allowance for the
if
load in the canoe, the number or the quality of the rowers,
        is
                 aetc., this time multiplied by the rate of travel in still water

would give the distance. This was the plan adopted in
                                      I

making my map of the Uaup^s. It  is,  of course, a mere

approximation, and liable to considerable errors, but didaI
not think they would lead to such a large difference of

distance as that between the Count's map and my own. We

have no doubt erred in opposite directions, and the truth lies
somewhere between us but until some traveller takes good
                    ;

chronometer up the river with sextant for determining locala
time, or telescope of sufficient size to observe eclipses of
Jupiter's satellites, the true length of the river will not be

settled.

    In one of the latest atlases, " The Twentieth Century
Citizens' Atlas," by Bartholomew, the position of the Jurupari

fall 62 per cent. further from the mouth of the river than

320  MY LIFE  [Chat.

on Stradelli's map, which seems to show either that some
other traveller has determined the longitude, or that they

consider my distances more correct than his.
     Another traveller, Dr. T. Koch, only last year (1904)

ascended the Uaup^s to beyond the Jurupari fall, and also
went up the Codiary branch, where he reached an elevated
plateau. But it is not stated whether he made any observa
tions to determine the true positions of his farthest point
{The Geographical Journal, July, 1905, p. 89).

    It seems probable, therefore, that the upper course of this

great river for a distance of two or three hundred miles
is quite unknown. But this is only one indication of the
enormous area of country in the central plains of South
America, which, except the banks of a few of the larger
rivers, is occupied only by widely scattered tribes of

Indians, and is as absolutely unknown to civilized man as
any portion of the globe. From the Meta river on the north,

to the Juambari and Beni rivers on the south, a distance of
about twelve hundred miles, and to an equal average distance
from the lower slopes of the Andes eastward, is one vast,

nearly level, tropical forest, only known or utilized for a few
miles from the banks of comparatively few of the rivers that

everywhere permeate it. It is to be hoped that in the not

remote future this grand and luxuriant country will be
utilized, not for the creation of wealth for speculators, but

to provide happy homes for millions of families.

     As my collections had now made my name well known to
the authorities of the Zoological and Entomological Societies,
I received a ticket from the former, giving me admission to

their gardens while I remained in England, and I was

a welcome visitor at the scientific meetings of both societies,

which I attended very regularly, and thus made the acquaint
ance of most of the London zoologists and entomologists. I

also went frequently to examine the insect and bird collec
tions in the British Museum (then in Great Russell Street),
and also to the Linnean Society, and to the Kew Herbarium

to consult works on botany, in order to name my palms.

                              Qokocobos  COW A3

                              · <*»\ jA/v

   Enlarge d M « p                               aChrt.x
           of the

RIVE R UAU PE S.

     Cm. Gtjvmra./ Kttfttd J

    J(par. Igttrt/te( Brmek

                              KQ H ATOIt

i

.
I

I

XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE     321

After discussing the matter with some of my friends, I

determined to publish, at my own expense, a small, popular
volume on the " Palms of the Amazon and Rio Negro," with
an account of their uses and distribution, and figures of all

the species from my sketches and specimens of fruits. I

arranged with Mr. Walter Fitch of Kew, the first botanical

artist of the day, to draw them on stone, adding a few

artistic touches to give them life and variety, and in a few

cases some botanical details from species living in the
gardens. In one of the drawings a large native house on

Ithe Uaupes is introduced, with some figures which, am

sorry to say, are as unlike the natives as are the inhabitants of

a London slum. I arranged with Mr. Van Voorst to publish

this small volume, and it was not thought advisable to print
more than 250 copies, the sale of which just covered all

expenses.

    At the same time I was preparing my " Travels on the
Amazon and Rio Negro" from the scanty materials I had
saved, supplemented by the letters I had written home. I

arranged with Mr. Lovel Reeve for its publication on an
agreement for "half profits." Only 750 copies were printed,

and when I returned home from the East in 1 862, about

250 copies were still unsold, and there were consequently
no profits to divide. We agreed, however, to share the

remaining copies, and my portion was disposed of by my new

publisher, Messrs. Macmillan & Co., and brought me in a few

pounds.

I had brought with me vocabularies of about a hundred

common words in ten different Indian languages, and as the

greatest philologist at that time was the late Dr. R. G.

Latham, I obtained an introduction to him, and he kindly

offered to write some " Remarks " upon the vocabularies, and
these are published in the first edition of my " Travels."

Dr. Latham was at this time engaged in fitting up groups

of figures to illustrate the family life and habits of the various

races of mankind at the new Crystal Palace at Sydenham,

then just completed, and he asked me to meet him there and

vol. 1.                           Y

322  MY LIFE  [Chat.

see whether any alterations were required in a group of

natives, I think, of Guiana.
    I found Dr. Latham among a number of workmen in

white aprons, several life-size clay models of Indians, and a
number of their ornaments, weapons, and utensils. The head
modellers were Italians, and Dr. Latham told me he could
get no Englishmen to do the work, and that these Italians,
although clever modellers of the human figure in any
required attitude, had all been trained in the schools of
classical sculpture, and were unable to get away from this
training. The result was very curious, and often even
ludicrous, a brown Indian man or girl being given the
attitudes and expressions of an Apollo or a Hercules, a
Venus or a Minerva. In those days there were no photo
graphs, and the ethnologist had to trust to paintings or
drawings, usually exaggerated or taken from individuals of
exceptional beauty or ugliness. Under my suggestion
alterations were made both in the features and pose of one
or two of the figures just completed, so as to give them a
little more of the Indian character, and serve as a guide in
modelling others, in which the same type of physiognomy

was to be preserved. I went several times during the work

on the groups of South American origin, but though when

completed, with the real ornaments, clothing, weapons, and

domestic implements, the groups were fairly characteristic
and life-like, yet there remained occasionally details of atti

tude or expression which suggested classic Greek or Italy

rather than the South American savage.

      These ethnological figures, although instructive to the

student, were never very popular, and soon became the
subject of contempt and ridicule. One reason of this was

their arrangement in the open, quite close to the passing

visitor, with nothing to isolate them from altogether incon
gruous surroundings. Another was, that they were not care

fully attended to, and when I saw them after my return

from the East, they had a shabby and dilapidated appear

ance, and the figures themselves were more or less dusty,

which had a most ludicrous effect in what were intended to

XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 323

represent living men and women, being so utterly unlike the

clear, glossy, living skins of all savage peoples. To be

successful and life-like, such groups should be each com
pletely isolated in a deep recess, with three sides representing
houses or huts, or the forest, or river-bank, while the open
front should be enclosed by a single sheet of plate-glass,
and the group should be seen at a distance of at least ten or
fifteen feet. In this way, with a carefully arranged illumina
tion from above and an artistic colouring of the figures and
accessories, each group might be made to appear as life-like
as some of the best figures at Madame Tussaud's, or as the
grand interiors of cathedrals, which were then exhibited at
the Diorama. In the museum of the future, such groups
will find their place in due succession to the groups illus
trating the life histories of the other mammalia ; but ample
space and a very careful attention to details must be given
in order to ensure a successful and attractive representation.

    It was at this time that I first saw Huxley, At one of

the evening meetings of the Zoological Society (in December,
1852) he gave an account of some Echinococci found in the
liver of a zebra which died in the gardens. He did not read
the paper, but, with the help of diagrams and sketches on the
blackboard, showed us clearly its main points of structure, its
mode of development, and the strange transformations it
underwent when the parent worm migrated from the intes

tine to other parts of the body of the animal. I was particu

larly struck with his wonderful power of making a difficult
and rather complex subject perfectly intelligible and extremely
interesting to persons who, like myself, were absolutely
ignorant of the whole group. Although he was two years
younger than myself, Huxley had already made a consider
able reputation as a comparative anatomist, was a Fellow of
the Royal Society, and a few months later was appointed
Professor of Natural History and Palaeontology at the Royal
School of Mines. I was amazed, too, at his complete mastery
of the subject, and his great amount of technical knowledge

of a kind to which I have never given any attention, the

324  MY LIFE  [chap.

structure and development of the lower forms of animal life.

From that time I always looked up to Huxley as being

immeasurably superior to myself in scientific knowledge, and

supposed him to be much older than I was. Many years
afterwards I was surprised to find that he was really younger.

    About this time I read before the same Society a few

Inotes on the species of monkeys had observed on the

Amazon, either wild or in a state of captivity, with the par
ticular object of pointing out their peculiarities of distribu

tion. As with butterflies and many birds, I found that both

the Amazon and the Rio Negro formed the limit to the
range of several species. The rare monkey, Lagothrix Hum-
boldti, inhabits the district between the Rio Negro and the

Andes, but is quite unknown to the east of that river. A

spider-monkey {A teles paniscus) is found in the Guiana dis
trict up to the Rio Negro, but not beyond it. The short-
tailed Brachiurus Couxiu has the same range, while distinct
species are found in the Upper Amazon and the Upper Rio
Negro. The two species of sloth-monkeys (Pithecia) are
found one to the north, the other to the south of the Upper

Amazon. In several other cases also, as well as with the

beautiful trumpeters among birds, the great rivers are found

to form the dividing lines between quite distinct species.
Four great divisions of eastern equatorial America, which
may be termed those of Guiana, Ecuador, Peru, and Brazil,
are thus distinctly marked out by the Amazon and its great

northern and southern tributaries --the Rio Negro and the
Madeira river ; and it seems easy to account for this if we
look upon the vast central plains of South America, so little

elevated above the sea-level, as having been formerly a gulf
or great inland sea which has been gradually filled up by

alluvial deposits from the surrounding highlands, and to have
been all stocked with forms of life from the three great
land-masses of the continent. These would be diversely
modified by the different conditions of each of these areas,

and as the intervening seas became formed into alluvial

plains drained by a great river, that river would naturally

ALFRED R. WALLACE.  1853.

                    [To face p. 324, Vol. i.


XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE  325

form the dividing line between distinct but closely allied
species.

    It was in the autumn of 1853 that I made my first visit

to Switzerland with my friend Mr. George Silk. On our way
from London to Dover we had for companion in our com

partment a stout, good-humoured American, a New-England
manufacturer, going to Paris on business for the first time.

He asked us if we could recommend him a good kafe. On

telling him we didn't know what a kafe was, he said, " Why, a
hotel or eating-house, to be sure ; the French call it ' kafe.' "
So we told him where we were going for the night, and he
went with us. The next day we went on by diligence to

Geneva, where we stayed a day, and then walked with our

knapsacks to Chamouni ; but the heat was so intense that we
stayed at a small inn on the way for the night. We walked
up to the Flegere to see the grand view of the Aiguilles and
Mont Blanc, and the next day joined a party to Montanvert,
the Mer de Glace, and the Jardin, having a guide to take
care of us. The day was magnificent ; we saw the sights of

the glacier, its crevasses and ice-tables, and when passing
round the precipice of the Couvercle above the ice-fall of the
Talefre glacier, there were masses of cloud below us which
partially rolled away, revealing the wonderful ice-pinnacles
brilliantly illuminated by the afternoon sun, and affording a

spectacle the grandeur and sublimity of which I have never
since seen equalled. Only a portion of our party reached

the Jardin, where I made a hasty collection of the flowers,

and by the time we got back to the hotel, having made the
steep descent from Montanvert in the dark, we were all pretty

well exhausted.

   The next day I and my friend walked over the Tete Noir

to Martigny. From here we took a chaise to Leuk, and

then walked up to Leukerbad and hired a porter to carry
our knapsacks up the Gemmi Pass, in order that we might
enjoy the ascent of that wonderful mountain road. Before

reaching the top snow began to fall, and we reached the

little inn on the summit in a snow-storm. It was crowded,

326  MY LIFE                                                  [Chap.

and we had to sleep on the floor. Next day we walked down

to Thun, whence we returned home vid Strasburg and Paris.

Although I enjoyed this my first visit to snowy mountains
and glaciers, I had not at that time sufficient knowledge to
fully appreciate them. The three visits I have since made have

filled me with a deeper sense of the grandeur and the exquisite
scenery of the Alps. My increased general knowledge of
geology, and especially of the glacial theory, have added
greatly to my enjoyment of the great physical features of the

country ; while my continually growing interest in botany
and in the cultivation of plants has invested every detail of

meadow and forest, rock and alp, with beauties and delights
which were almost absent from my early visit. The appre

ciation of nature grows with years, and I feel to-day more

deeply than ever its mystery and its charms.

     During my constant attendance at the meetings of theit,
                             a
Zoological and Entomological Societies, and visits to the
                                               I              I
insect and bird departments of the British Museum, I hadIa
                                                                       of it
obtained sufficient information to satisfy me that the very
finest field for an exploring and collecting naturalist was to
be found in the great Malayan Archipelago, of which just

sufficient was known to prove its wonderful richness, while
no part of with the one exception of the island of Java,
had been well explored as regards its natural history. Sir
James Brooke had recently become Rajah of Sarawak, while
the numerous Dutch settlements in Celebes and the Moluccas

offered great facilities for traveller. So far as known also,
the country was generally healthy, and determined that

would be much better for me to go to such new country than

to return to the Amazon, where Bates had already been suc

cessfully collecting for five years, and where knew there was
   good bird-collector who had been long at work in the upper

part of the river towards the Andes.
     As the journey to the East was an expensive one, was

advised to try and get free passage in some Government
ship. Through my paper on the Rio Negro, had made the
acquaintance of Sir Roderick Murchison, then President
a
                                            a

                                               I

XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE  327

the Royal Geographical Society, and one of the most accessible
and kindly of men of science. On calling upon him and stating
my wishes, he at once agreed to make an application on my
behalf for a passage to some Malayan port, and as he was

personally known to many members of the Government and

had great influence with them, a passage was promised me on

the first ship going to those seas. This was, I think, near the
end of the year 1853, when I had published my two books,

and had spent much of my spare time at the British Museum,

examining the collections, and making notes and sketches,
of the rarer and more valuable species of birds, butterflies,

and beetles of the various Malay islands.

     Among the greatest wants of a collector who wishes to

know what he is doing, and how many of his captures are

new or rare, are books containing a compact summary with
brief descriptions of all the more important known species ;

and, speaking broadly, such books did not then nor do now

exist. Having found by my experience when beginning
botany how useful are even the shortest characters in deter

mining a great number of species, I endeavoured to do the
same thing in this case. I purchased the " Conspectus Generum

Avium " of Prince Lucien Bonaparte, a large octavo volume

of 800 pages, containing a well-arranged catalogue of all
the known species of birds up to 1850, with references to

descriptions and figures, and the native country and distribu

tion of each species. Besides this, in a very large number -- I

should think nearly half--a short but excellent Latin descrip
tion was given, by which the species could be easily deter
mined. In many families (the cuckoos and woodpeckers, for
example) every species was thus described, in others a large

proportion. As the book had very wide margins I consulted

all the books referred to for the Malayan species, and copied

out in abbreviated form such of the characters as I thought

would enable me to determine each, the result being that
during my whole eight years' collecting in the East, I could

almost always identify every bird already described, and if

I could not do so, was pretty sure that it was a new or

undescribed species.

328     MY LIFE                                     [Chap.

     No one who is not a naturalist and collector can imagine

the value of this book to me. It was my constant companion
on all my journeys, and as I had also noted in it the species
not in the British Museum, I was able every evening to

satisfy myself whether among my day's captures there was

anything either new or rare. Now, such a book is equally

valuable to the amateur collector at home in naming and

arranging his collections, but to answer the purpose thoroughly
it must, of course, be complete --that every species must be
                 is,

                                     it
                                            is
shortly characterized. During the last fifty years  pro

bable that the described species of birds have doubled in

number, yet with slight alteration the whole of these might

be included in volume no larger than that am referring
     a                         I

to. This could be effected by giving only one name to each

species (that in most general use), whereas Prince Bonaparte
has usually given several synonyms and references to figures,

so that these occupy fully as much space as the descriptions.

These are quite unnecessary for the collector abroad or at

home. What he requires to have compact and cheap
        is

              if

                            a
volume by which he can name, not all, at least all well-

marked species. A series of volumes of this character should

be issued by the various national museums of the world (each
one taking certain groups) and be kept up to date by annual

or quinquennial supplements, as in the case of the admirable
" List of Plants introduced to Cultivation during the twenty-

one years, 1876-1896, issued by the Director of Kew Gardens."
In this very compact volume of 420 pages, 7600 species of
plants are sufficiently described for identification, while by

the use of double columns and thin paper, the volume
only about half the weight of Bonaparte's " Conspectus,"
     is
                                                              a
                                                                                                          in is
which about the same number of birds are catalogued, but

only half of them described. By division of labour such

as here suggested, the mammals, reptiles, and freshwater

fishes might be issued in this form without difficulty. The

land and freshwater shells might have separate volumes

dealing with the eastern and western hemispheres, or with the

separate continents, as might the Diurnal Lepidoptera. The

other orders of insects are too extensive to be treated in this

XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE             329

way, but the more attractive families --as the Geodephaga, the

Lamellicornes, the Longicornes, and the Buprestidae among

beetles, the bees and wasps among Hysuoptera, might have

volumes devoted to them. As these volumes would, if com

pact and cheap, have a very large sale in every civilized

country, they might be issued at a very low price, and would

be an immense boon to all amateur collectors, travellers, and
residents abroad ; and if the chief genera were illustrated by
a careful selection of photographic prints, now so easily and

economically produced, they would constitute one of the

greatest incentives to the study of nature.

     The only other book of much use to me was the volume
by Boisduval, describing all the known species of the two

families of butterflies, the Papilionidae and Pieridae. The

descriptions by this French author are so clear and precise

that every species can be easily determined, and the volume,

though dealing with so limited a group, was of immense

interest to me. For other families of butterflies and for some
Iof the beetles
                 made notes and sketches at the British

Museum, which enabled me to recognize some of the larger

and best known species ; but I soon found that so many of
the species I collected were new or very rare, that in the
less known groups I could safely collect all as of equal

importance.

   It was, I think, in the latter part of January, 1854, that I

received a notification from the Government that a passage
had been granted me to Singapore in the brig Frolic,

shortly sailing for that port, and that I was to communicate
with the captain --Commander Nolloth --as to when I should
go on board. I think it was about the middle of February
that I went to Portsmouth with all necessaries for the voyage,

my heavy baggage having been sent off by a merchant ship

some time previously. The Frolic was anchored at Spithead

with a number of other warships. She was about seven

hundred tons, and carried, I think, twelve guns. The accom
modation was very scanty. I messed with the gun-room

officers, and as there was no vacant cabin or berth, the

captain very kindly accommodated me in a cot slung in his

330  MY LIFE                                     [Chat.

cabin, which was a large one, and also provided me with a
small table in one corner where I could write or read quietly.

    The captain was a rather small, nervous man, but very
kind and of rather scientific and literary tastes. He wished
to take some deep-sea soundings during the voyage, and to

bring up good samples of the bottom ; and we discussed an

Iapparatus he was having made for the purpose, in which

suggested some improvements, which he adopted. Sailing

orders were expected every day, as the ship was quite ready,
with the stores she was taking out to the East all on board ;

but day after day and week after week passed, signals were

exchanged with the admiral, but we seemed no nearer

sailing than when I came on board. It was rather dull work,
but I consoled myself with getting acquainted with the ship

and its ways, the regular routine of which went on, and
everybody seemed as fully occupied as if we were at sea.

The captain had a nice little library in his cabin, among which

the only book I specially remember was a fine Spanish
edition of " Don Quixote." This I intended to read through

during the voyage, as my familiarity with Portuguese and the

small experience of Spanish conversation while in Venezuela

enabled me to understand a good deal of it. But this was

not to be.

    Having read almost all Marryat's novels, I was especially

interested in the characters and manners of the various

officers, in whom I found several of Marryat's types repro
duced. The captain, as I have said, was nervous, and especially

on everything connected with official etiquette. One day
signals were being made from the admiral's ship, and there

seemed to be some doubt as to what ships it was intended
for. The first-lieutenant asked what they were to do about

    and the captain was quite excited for fear of reprimand,
and at last said, " We can only do what the others do. Watch
it,

             I

                            a

                                                        I

                                                                                       a
                                                                                         it it
them and repeat the signals they make." Whether                                                 was
right or not don't remember. One officer, think                                                 was

the purser, was the great authority on naval history. His

small cabin had complete set of the Navy List for fifty years

or more, and every matter in dispute as to what ship was at

XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE 331

a certain station in a given year, or where any particular

officer was stationed, was always referred to him, and if he

could not say offhand, he retired to his cabin for a few

minutes, and then produced the authority, which settled the
question. The others were nothing remarkable, except the
doctor, who was of the jolly, talkative sort, and seemed
especially to pride himself on his knowledge of seamanship.

One day I remember the captain was summoned by signal to
go on shore to the admiral's office. It was a cold day with

a strong wind, and there was a very choppy sea on, as there

often is at Spithead. When the captain's gig came alongside
it was difficult to keep it clear of the ship, it was so tossed

about in sudden and unexpected ways ; and when the captain

had got in, there was a difficulty in getting away, and for a
few moments the boat seemed quite out of command and in
danger of upsetting. The officers were all looking on with

anxiety, and as soon as the boat had got clear away, it was

the doctor that spoke, and declared that he never saw such

bad seamanship. They were very near losing the captain !
They were a set of lubbers ! etc. etc.

    Finding that I was a bad sailor, I was assured that before
we got to Singapore I should be thoroughly seasoned, for the

brig was what they called a Simonite, a class of ships named
after the designer, which, though stable, were very uncom
fortable in bad weather, having a quick jumping motion, which

often made old sailors seasick. I hoped this was exaggerated,

but looked forward to the ordeal with some dread. But one

day the captain informed me that he had received fresh

orders to carry stores to the Crimea, where the great war
with Russia was about to commence. He said that he

regretted the change, because he much preferred the voyage
to Singapore and China, and that he also regretted the loss

of my company ; but as it was, I had better leave the next

morning, and that no doubt the Government would provide

me a passage in some other vessel. So I bade farewell to
him and his officers, none of whom I ever met again.

     On returning to London, I at once call on Sir Roderick
Murchison, and through his representations I received in a

332  MY LIFE                                                                                      [Chap.

few days a first-class ticket overland to Singapore by the
next Peninsular and Oriental steamer, which sailed in about

Ia week, so that did not lose much time. The voyage was

a very interesting one, stopping a few hours at Gibraltar,
passing within sight of the grand Sierra Nevada of Spain,
staying a day at Malta, where the town and the tombs of

the knights were inspected, and then on to Alexandria.
But having by me a long letter I wrote to my school

fellow, Mr. George Silk, I will here quote from it a few

of the impressions of my journey as they appeared to me

at the time they occurred ; and first as to my fellow-

passengers :--
     " Our company consists of a few officers and about twenty

cadets for India, three or four Scotch clerks for Calcutta, the

same number of business men for Australia, a Government

interpreter and two or three others for China ; a Frenchman ;

a Portuguese officer for Goa, with whom I converse; three

Spaniards for the Philippines, very grave ; a gentleman and
two ladies, Dutch, going to Batavia ; and some English

officers for Alexandria. At Gibraltar we were quarantined

for fear of cholera, then rather prevalent in England, and all
communication with the ship was by means of tongs and a
basin of water, the latter to drop the money in. We had

a morning at Malta, and went on shore from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m.,
walked through the narrow streets, visited the market to

hear the Maltese language, admired the beggar boys and
girls, strolled through the Cathedral of St. John, gorgeous

with marbles and gold and the tombs of the knights. A

clergyman came on board here going to Jerusalem, and a
namesake of my own to Bombay. The latter has a neat
figure, sharp face, and looks highly respectable, not at all like

me 1 I have found no acquaintance on board who exactly

suits me. One of my cabin mates is going to Australia, and
reads ' How to make Money '--seems to be always thinking
of and very dull and unsociable. The other one of
the Indian cadets, very aristocratic, great in dressing-case
and jewellery, takes an hour to dress, and persistently studies
the Hindostanee grammar. The Frenchman, the Portuguese,
     it,
                  is
                                                                                              is

XX] LONDON: VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE                         333

and the Scotchman I find the most amusing ; there is also a

little fat Navy lieutenant, who is fond of practical jokes, and

has started a Monte Table."

                        " Steamer Bengal, Red Sea, March 26.

"Of all the eventful days in my life (so far), my first
in Alexandria was (in some respects) the most exciting.
Imagine my feelings when, coming out of the hotel (to which

we had  been conveyed    in an   omthneibucsi)ty,witIh  the intention of
taking  a quiet stroll  through                         suddenly found

myself in the midst of a vast crowd of donkeys and their

drivers, all thoroughly determined to appropriate my person

to their own use and interest, without in the least consulting

my inclinations. In vain with rapid strides and waving arms

I endeavoured to clear a way and move forward, arms and

legs were seized upon, and even the Christian coat-tails were

not sacred from the profane hands of the Mahometan crowd.

One would hold together two donkeys by their tails whilst I

was struggling between them, and another, forcing their heads
together, hoped to compel me to mount one or both of them.

One fellow, more impudent than the rest, I laid flat upon the
ground, and, sending the little donkey staggering after him, I

escaped for a moment midst hideous yells and most unearthly

cries. I now beckoned to a fellow more sensible-looking
than the rest, and told him that I wished to walk, and would
take him as a guide, and now hoped that I might be left at
peace. But vain thought ! I was in the hands of the Philis

tines, who, getting me up against a wall, formed around
me an impenetrable phalanx of men and brutes, thoroughly

determined that I should only escape from the spot upon the

four legs of a donkey. So, bethinking myself that donkey-

riding was a national institution of venerable antiquity, and
seeing a fat Yankee (very like our Paris friend) already
mounted, being like myself, hopeless of any other means of

escape, I seized upon a bridle in hopes that I should then be
left by the remainder of the crowd. But seeing that I was at

last going to ride, each one was determined that he alone

should profit by the transaction, and a dozen animals were

334                             MY LIFE                          [Chap.

forced suddenly upon me, and a dozen pair of hands tried to

lift me upon their respective beasts. But now my patience

was exhausted, so, keeping firm hold of the bridle I had first
taken with one hand, I hit right and left with the other, and

calling upon my guide to do the same, we succeeded in

clearing a little space around us. Now, then, behold your

long-legged friend mounted upon a jackass in the streets of

Alexandria ; a boy behind, holding by his tail and whipping

him up ; Charles, who had been lost sight of in the crowd,

upon another ; and my guide upon a third ; and off we go

among a crowd of Jews and Greeks, Turks and Arabs, and
veiled women and yelling donkey-boys, to see the city. We
saw the bazaars, and the slave market (where I was again
nearly pulled to pieces for ' backsheesh
                                          a ! '),  the mosques with

their graceful minarets, and then the pasha's new palace, the

interior of which most gorgeous. We passed lots of Turkish
     it
soldiers, walking in comfortable irregularity and after theis
                                                   is ;
consciousness of being dreadful guys for two crowded hours,a
                            is
returned to the hotel, whence we are to start for the canal

boats. You may think this little narrative exaggerated,

but not so. The pertinacity, vigour, and screams of the

Alexandrian donkey-drivers cannot be exaggerated. On our

way to the boats we passed Pompey's Pillar for day we
                                                   a;    a

were rowed in small boats on canal, then on the Nile             a ; in
                                a

barges, with panorama of mud villages, palm-trees, camels,
and irrigating wheels turned by buffaloes, -- perfectly flat

country, beautifully green with crops of corn and lentils

endless boats with immense triangular sails. Then the

Pyramids came in sight, looking huge and solemn then
                                                             a;
handsome castellated bridge for the Alexandria and Cairo
railway and then Cairo --Grand Cairo the city of romance,
     ;
which we reached just before sunset. We took guide
       a

                    I
and walked in the city, very picturesque and very dirty.

Then to quiet English hotel, where Mussulman waiter,

rejoicing in the name of Ali-baba, gave us splendid tea,
                                                   Ia
brown bread and fresh butter. One or two French and

English travellers were the only guests, and could hardly

realize my situation.           longed for you to enjoy with me.
                                                         it

XX] LONDON : VOYAGE TO SINGAPORE                                                   335

Thackeray's 'First Day in the East' is admirable. Read

it again, and you will understand just how I think and

feel.

     " Next morning at seven we started for Suez in small four-
horsed two-wheeled omnibuses, carrying six passengers each.

Horses were changed every five miles, and we had a meal

every three hours at very comfortable stations. The desert

is undulating, mostly covered with a coarse, volcanic-looking

gravel. The road is excellent. The skeletons of camels --
hundreds of them --lay all along the road ; vultures, sand-
grouse, and sand-larks were occasionally seen. We frequently
saw the mirage, like distant trees and water. Near the
middle station the pasha has a hunting-lodge --a perfect
palace. The Indian and Australian mails, about six hundred

boxes, as well as all the parcels, goods, and passengers'
luggage, were brought by endless trains of camels, which

we passed on the way. At the eating-places I took a little

stroll, gathering some of the curious highly odoriferous

plants that grew here and there in the hollow, which I
dried in my pocket-books, and I also found a few land-

shells. We enjoyed the ride exceedingly, and reached

Suez about midnight. It is a miserable little town, and the

bazaar is small, dark, and dirty. There is said to be no
water within ten miles. The next afternoon we went on

board our ship, a splendid vessel with large and comfort
able cabins, and everything very superior to the Euxine.
Adieu."

    I have given this description of my journey from Alex

andria to Suez, over the route established by Lieutenant

Waghorn, and which was superseded a few years later by

the railway, and afterwards by the canal, because few

persons now living will remember  or know that ever
           ;a
                                                       it,

                                         I

                                                                               it
existed. Of the rest of our journey  have no record.

We stayed  day at desolate, volcanic Aden, and thence

across to Galle, with its groves of cocoa-nut palms, and

crowds of natives offering for sale the precious stones of

the country thence across to Pulo Penang, with its pic

turesque mountain, its spice-trees, and its waterfall, and on

336  MY LIFE  [Chap. XX]

down the Straits of Malacca, with its richly-wooded shores,

to our destination, Singapore, where I was to begin the

eight years of wandering throughout the Malay Archipelago,

which constituted the central and controlling incident of

my life.

                    CHAPTER XXI

THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO --SINGAPORE, MALACCA,

                                    BORNEO

In order not to omit so important a portion of my life as my
eight years in the far East, I propose to give a general

sketch of my various journeys and their results, told as far as

possible in quotations from the few of my letters home that

have been preserved, with such connecting facts as may serve

to render them intelligible.

   Ten days after my arrival at Singapore I wrote home as
follows :--" After being a week in a hotel here, I at last got

permission to stay with a French Roman Catholic missionary,

who lives about eight miles out of town, in the centre of the

island, and close to the jungle. The greater part of the

inhabitants of Singapore are Chinese, many of whom are

very rich, and almost all the villages around are wholly

Chinese, who cultivate pepper and gambier, or cut timber.

Some of the English merchants have fine country houses. I

dined with one, to whom I brought an introduction. His

house was spacious, and full of magnificent China and Japan

furniture. We are now staying at the mission of Bukit

Tima. The missionary (a French Jesuit) speaks English,
Malay, and Chinese, and is a very pleasant man. He has

built a pretty church here, and has about three hundred

Chinese converts."              wrote -- " I am very             \
   A month later (May 28th) I    I and Charles go
                                                      comfort
able here with the missionary.                        into the

jungle every day for insects. The forest here is very similar

VOL. L              337                               z

338                     MY LIFE                       [Chap.

to that of South America. Palms are very numerous, but

they are generally small, and very spiny. There are none of
Ithe large majestic species so common on the Amazon.
                                                      am

so busy with insects now that I have no time for anything
Ielse.
        send now about a thousand beetles to Mr. Stevens,
and I have as many other insects still on hand, which will

form part of my next and principal consignment. Singapore

I Iis rich in beetles, and before I leave think shall have a

beautiful collection of them. I will tell you how my day is

now occupied. Get up at half-past five, bath, and coffee.

Sit down to arrange and put away my insects of the day

before, and set them in a safe place to dry. Charles mends

our insect-nets, fills our pin-cushions, and gets ready for the

day. Breakfast at eight ; out to the jungle at nine. We

have to walk about a quarter mile up a steep hill to reach

it,  and arrive dripping with perspiration. Then we wander

about in the delightful shade along paths made by the

Chinese wood-cutters till two or three in the afternoon,

generally returning with fifty or sixty beetles, some very rare

or beautiful, and perhaps few butterflies. Change clothes
                        a
and sit down to kill and pin insects, Charles doing the flies,a

wasps, and bugs                          ado not trust him yet with beetles.
        if
              ;
             I
Dinner at four, then at work again till six: coffee. Then

read or talk, or, insects very numerous, work again till eight

or nine. Then to bed."

     In July wrote from "The Jungle, near Malacca:" "We
        I

                     a
have been here week, living in Chinese house or shed,

which reminds me of some of my old Rio Negro habitations.

We came from Singapore in small trading schooner, with

about fifty Chinese, Hindoos, and Portuguese passengers, and

were two days on the voyage with nothing but rice and

curry to eat, not having made any special provision, being
                                            it
                                                   is

                                                         a
our first experience of the country vessels. Malacca

very old Dutch city, but the Portuguese have left the clearest

marks of their possession of in the common language of
        a
                                 a

                                I it
the place being still theirs.         have now two Portuguese

servants, cook and hunter, and find myself almost back

in Brazil, owing to the similarity of the language, the people,

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO                                339

and the general aspect of the forest. In Malacca we stayed

only two days, being anxious to get into the country as soon
Ias possible.
               stayed with a Roman Catholic missionary ;

there are several here, each devoted to a particular portion of
the population -- Portuguese, Chinese, and wild Malays of the

jungle. The gentleman we were with is building a large

church, of which he is architect himself, and superintends the

laying of every brick and the cutting of every piece of

timber. Money enough could not be raised here, so he took

a voyage round the world, and in the United States, Cali

fornia, and India got enough subscribed to finish it. It is a

curious and not very creditable thing, that in the English

possessions of Singapore and Malacca, there is not a single

Protestant missionary ; while the conversion, education, and
physical and moral improvement of the non-European in

habitants is left entirely to these French missionaries, who,

without the slightest assistance from our Government, devote

their lives to christianizing and civilizing the varied popula

tion under our rule.
     " Here the birds are abundant and most beautiful, more

so than on the lower Amazon, and I think I shall soon form

a fine collection. They are, however, almost all common

species, and are of little value, except that I hope they will

be better specimens than usually reach England. My guns

are both very good, but I find powder and shot actually

cheaper in Singapore than in London, so I need not have

troubled myself to bring any. So far both I and Charles

have had excellent health. He can now shoot pretty well,

and is so fond of it that I can hardly get him to do any

thing else.
     " The Chinese here are most industrious. They clear and

cultivate the ground with a neatness which I have never seen

equalled in the tropics, and they save every particle of

manure, both from animals and men, to enrich the ground.

"The country around Malacca is much more beautiful

than near Singapore, it being an old settlement with abund

ance of old fruit and forest trees scattered about. Monkeys

of many sorts are abundant ; in fact, all animal life seems more

340                     MY LIFE                    [Chap.

abundant than in Brazil. Among the fruits I miss the

delicious oranges of Para and the Amazon. Here they are

scarce and not good, and there is nothing that can replace

them."

     I may as well state here that the " Charles " referred to in

the preceding letter was a London boy, the son of a carpenter
who had done a little work for my sister, and whose parents

were willing for him to go with me to learn to be a collector.
He was sixteen years old, but quite undersized for his age,

so that no one would have taken him for more than thirteen

or fourteen. He remained with me about a year and a half,
and learned to shoot and to catch insects pretty well, but not
to prepare them properly. He was rather of a religious turn,

and when I left Borneo he decided to stay with the bishop

and become a teacher. After a year or two, however, he

returned to Singapore, and got employment on some
plantations. About five years later he joined me in the
Moluccas as a collector. He had grown to be a fine young

man, over six feet. When I returned home he remained in

Singapore, married, and had a family. He died some fifteen

years since.

   At the end of September I returned to Singapore, whence
I wrote home as follows :--

    " I have now just returned to Singapore after two months'
hard work. At Malacca I had a strong touch of fever, with

the old ' Rio Negro ' symptoms, but the Government doctor

made me take large doses of quinine every day for a week,

and so killed and in less than a fortnight was quite well,it,
                                                I

and off to the jungle again.  never took half enough quinine
                            II I
in America to cure me.
     " Malacca                         a
                is    pretty place. Insects are not very abundantaa
                   a

there, still, by perseverance, got good number, and many

rare ones. Of birds, too, made good collection.    I  went

to the celebrated Mount Ophir, and ascended to the top,

sleeping under       a  rock. The walk there was hard work,

thirty miles through jungle in succession of mud-holes, and

swarming with leeches, which crawled all over us, and sucked

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO 341

when and where they pleased. We lived a week at the foot

of the mountain, in a little hut built by our men, near a
beautiful rocky stream. I got some fine new butterflies there,

and hundreds of other new or rare insects. Huge centipedes

and scorpions, some nearly a foot long, were common, but we
none of us got bitten or stung. We only had rice, and a little

fish and tea, but came home quite well. The mountain is
over four thousand feet high. Near the top are beautiful

ferns and pitcher-plants, of which I made a small collection.

Elephants and rhinoceroses, as well as tigers, are abundant

there, but we had our usual bad luck in seeing only their
tracks. On returning to Malacca I found the accumulation
...of two or three posts-- a dozen letters, and about fifty
newspapers.  I am glad to be safe in Singapore with

my collections, as from here they can be insured. I have

now a fortnight's work to arrange, examine, and pack

them, and four months hence there will be work for Mr.

Stevens.1
I" Sir James Brooke is here.
                                  have called on him. He

received me most cordially, and offered me every assistance

at Sarawak. I shall go there next, as the missionary does
Inot go to Cambodia for some months. Besides, shall have

some pleasant society at Sarawak, and shall get on in Malay,

which is very easy ; but I have had no practice yet, though I

can ask for most common things."

    I reached Sarawak early in November, and remained in

Borneo fourteen months, seeing a good deal of the country.

IThe first four months was the wet season, during which

made journeys up and down the Sarawak river, but obtained

very scanty collections. In March I went to the Sadong

river, where coal mines were being opened by an English

mining engineer, Mr. Coulson, a Yorkshireman, and I stayed

there nearly nine months, it being the best locality for

beetles I found during my twelve years' tropical collecting,
and very good for other groups. It was also in this place

     1 They were sent by sailing ship round the Cape of Good Hope, the overland
route being too costly for goods.

342  MY LIFE  [Chap.

that I obtained numerous skins and skeletons of the orang

utan, as fully described in my " Malay Archipelago."
    In my first letter, dated May, 1855, 1 gave a sketch of the

country and people :--
    " As far inland as I have yet seen this country may be

described as a dead level, and a lofty and swampy forest. It

would, therefore, be very uninviting were it not for a few
small hills which here and there rise abruptly --oases in the

swampy wilderness. It is at one of these that we are located,

a hill covering an area of, perhaps, three or four square miles,
and less than a thousand feet high. In this hill there are

several coal seams ; one of these three feet and a half thick,

of very good coal for steamers, crops out round three-fourths
of the hill, dipping down at a moderate angle. We have here

near a hundred men, mostly Chinese ; ground has been cleared,

and houses built, and a road is being made through the jungle,
a distance of two miles, to the Sadong river, where the coal

will be shipped.
     " The jungle here is exceedingly gloomy and monotonous ;

palms are scarce, and flowers almost wanting, except some

species of dwarf gingerworts. It is only high overhead that

flowers can be seen. There are many fine orchids of the

genus caelogyne, with great drooping spikes of white or
yellow flowers, and occasionally bunches of the scarlet flowers
of a magnificent creeper, a species of aeschynanthus. Oak

trees are rather common, and I have already noticed three

species having large acorns of a red, brown, and black colour

respectively.
     " Our mode of life here is very simple, and we have a con

tinual struggle to get enough to eat, as all fowls and vegetables

grown by the Dyaks go to Sarawak, and I have been obliged

to send there to buy some.
     " The old men here relate with pride how many ' heads '

they took in their youth ; and though they all acknowledge

the goodness of the present rajah, yet they think that if they
were allowed to take a few heads, as of old, they would have
better crops. The more I see of uncivilized people, the better

I think of human nature on the whole, and the essential

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO  343

differences between civilized and savage man seem to disappear.
Here we are, two Europeans, surrounded by a population of
Chinese, Malays, and Dyaks. The Chinese are generally con
sidered, and with some amount of truth, to be thieves, liars,
and reckless of human life, and these Chinese are coolies of

the lowest and least educated class, though they can all read
and write. The Malays are invariably described as being

barbarous and bloodthirsty ; and the Dyaks have only recently
ceased to think head-taking a necessity of their existence.
We are two days' journey from Sarawak, where, though the
government is nominally European, it only exists with the

consent and by the support of the native population. Yet

I can safely say that in any part of Europe where the same

opportunities for crime and disturbance existed, things would
not go so smoothly as they do here. We sleep with open

doors, and go about constantly unarmed ; one or two petty
robberies and a little fighting have occurred among the
Chinese, but the great majority of them are quiet, honest,
decent sort of people. They did not at first like the strictness

and punctuality with which the English manager kept them
to their work, and two or three ringleaders tried to get up
a strike for shorter hours and higher wages, but Mr. Coulson's

energy and decision soon stopped this by discharging the

ringleaders at once, and calling all the Malays and Dyaks in
the neighbourhood to come up to the mines in case any

violence was attempted. It was very gratifying to see how

rapidly they obeyed the summons, knowing that Mr. Coulson
represented the rajah, and this display of power did much
good, for since then everything has gone on smoothly.
Preparations are now making for building a 'joss-house,' a
sure sign that the Chinese have settled down contentedly."

it,  In my next letter, a month later, I gave the following
account of an interesting episode :--

    " I must now tell you of the addition to my household of
an orphan baby, a curious little half-nigger baby, which I
have nursed now more than a month. I will tell you pre
sently how I came to get but must first relate my inventive

344     MY LIFE                                                    [Chap.

skill as a nurse. The little innocent was not weaned, and I

had nothing proper to feed it with, so was obliged to give it

rice-water. I got a large-mouthed bottle, making two holes
in the cork, through one of which I inserted a large quill so
that the baby could suck. I fitted up a box for a cradle
with a mat for it to lie upon, which I had washed and
changed every day. I feed it four times a day, and wash it

and brush its hair every day, which it likes very much, only

crying when it is hungry or dirty. In about a week I gave
it the rice-water a little thicker, and always sweetened it to

make it nice. I am afraid you would call it an ugly baby,

for it has a dark brown skin and red hair, a very large mouth,

but very pretty little hands and feet. It has now cut its two
lower front teeth, and the uppers are coming. At first it
would not sleep alone at night, but cried very much ; so I

made it a pillow of an old stocking, which it likes to hug, and

now sleeps very soundly. It has powerful lungs, and some
times screams tremendously, so I hope it will live.

   "But I must now tell you how I came to take charge of
it. Don't be alarmed ; I was the cause of its mother's death.
It happened as follows :-- I was out shooting in the jungle
and saw something up a tree which I thought was a large

monkey or orang-utan, so I fired at and down fell this little
baby -- in its mother's arms. What she did up in the tree of
I
      I

          I

                                                            a
                                                              it,
course can't imagine, but as she ran about the branches

quite easily, presume she was wild 'woman of the woods             I ;'

so have preserved her skin and skeleton, and am trying to

bring up her only daughter, and hope some day to introduce

her to fashionable society at the Zoological Gardens. When

its poor mother fell mortally wounded, the baby was plunged

head over ears in swamp about the consistence of pea-

soup, and when got out looked very pitiful. It clung to
     I
         Ia

                it
                           it
                                it
me very hard when carried home, and having got its little

hands unawares into my beard,       clutched so tight that

had great difficulty in extricating myself. Its mother, poor

creature, had very long hair, and while she was running

about the trees like mad woman, the little baby had to
     a

hold fast to prevent itself from falling, which accounts for the

xxi]  THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO  345

remarkable strength of its little fingers and toes, which catch
hold of anything with the firmness of a vice. About a week

ago I bought a little monkey with a long tail, and as the
baby was very lonely while we were out in the daytime, I

put the little monkey into the cradle to keep it warm. Per
haps you will say that this was not proper. ' How could you

do such a thing ? ' But, I assure you, the baby likes it ex

ceedingly, and they are excellent friends. When the monkey

wants to run away, as he often does, the baby clutches him
by the tail or ears and drags him back ; and if the monkey

does succeed in escaping, screams violently till he is brought

back again. Of course, baby cannot walk yet, but I let it

crawl about on the floor to exercise its limbs ; but it is the

most wonderful baby I ever saw, and has such strength in its
arms that it will catch hold of my trousers as I sit at work, and

hang under my legs for a quarter of an hour at a time with

 out being the least tired, all the time trying to suck, thinking,
no doubt, it has got hold of its poor dear mother. When it
finds no milk is to be had, there comes another scream, and

I have to put it back in its cradle and give it ' Toby '--the
little monkey -- to hug, which quiets it immediately. From
this short account you will see that my baby is no common

baby, and I can safely say, what so many have said before

 with much less truth, ' There never was such a baby as my

baby,' and I am sure nobody ever had such a dear little duck

 of a darling of a little brown hairy baby before."

    In a letter dated Christmas Day, 1855, I gave my impres

"Isions of the Dyaks, and of Sir James Brooke, as follows :--

          have now lived a month in a Dyak's house, and

spent a day or two in several others, and I have been very

much pleased with them. They are a very kind, simple,

hospitable people, and I do not wonder at the great interest

Sir James Brooke takes in them. They are more communi
cative and more cheerful than the American Indians, and it
is therefore more agreeable to live with them. In moral cha

racter they are far superior to either the Malays or the

Chinese, for though head-taking was long a custom among

346  MY LIFE  [Chap.

them, it was only as a trophy of war. In their own villages
crimes are very rare. Ever since Sir James Brooke has been

rajah, more than twelve years, there has only been one case

of murder in a Dyak tribe, and that was committed by a
stranger who had been adopted into the tribe. One wet day
I produced a piece of string to show them how to play ' cat's
cradle,' and was quite astonished to find that they knew it

much better than I did, and could make all sorts of new
figures I had never seen. They were also very clever at

tricks with string on their fingers, which seemed to be a
favourite amusement. Many of the remoter tribes think the
rajah cannot be a man. They ask all sorts of curious ques

tions about him -- Whether he is not as old as the mountains ;
whether he cannot bring the dead to life ; and I have no
doubt, for many years after his death, he will be held to be a

deity and expected to come back again.

    " I have now seen a good deal of Sir James, and the more
I see of him the more I admire him. With the highest

talents for government he combines in a high degree good

ness of heart and gentleness of manner. At the same time,

he has so much self-confidence and determination that he

has put down with the greatest ease the conspiracies of one

or two of the Malay chiefs against him. It is a unique case

in the history of the world for a private English gentleman
to rule over two conflicting races --a superior and an inferior
--with their own consent, without any means of coercion,

but depending solely upon them both for protection and
support, while at the same time he introduces some of the
best customs of civilization, and checks all crimes and bar

barous practices that before prevailed. Under his govern
ment ' running-a-muck,' so frequent in other Malay countries,
has never taken place, and in a population of about 30,000
Malays, almost all of whom carry their kris, and were accus
tomed to revenge an insult with a stab, murders only occur
once in several years. The people are never taxed except

with their own consent, and in the manner most congenial to
them, while almost the whole of the rajah's private fortune
has been spent in the improvement of the country or for its

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO  347

benefit. Yet this is the man who has been accused in Eng
land of wholesale murder and butchery of unoffending tribes

to secure his own power ! "

    In my next letter (from Singapore in February, 1856) I
say-- " I have now left Sarawak, where I began to feel quite

at home, and may perhaps never return to it again, but I

shall always look back with pleasure to my residence there
and to my acquaintance with Sir James Brooke, who is a
gentleman and a nobleman in the truest and best sense of

those words."

    At the end of this letter I make some remarks on the

Crimean War, then almost concluded, and though I after

wards saw reason to change my opinion as regards this
particular war, my views then as to the menace of Russian

power to civilization are not altogether inapplicable at the

present day. I say--" The warlike stores found in Sebasto-
pol are alone a sufficient justification of the war. For what

purpose were four thousand cannon and other stores in pro

portion accumulated there for if not to take Constantinople,

get a footing in the Mediterranean, and ultimately to subju
gate Europe ? And why do such tremendous fortresses exist

in every part of the frontiers of Russia, if not to render her

self invulnerable from the attacks which she has determined

by her ambitious designs to bring upon her ? Russia is per
petually increasing her means both of defence and of aggres
sion ; if she had continued unmolested for a few years longer,
it would have cost still greater sacrifices to subdue her. The

war, therefore, is absolutely necessary as the only means of
teaching Russia that Europe will not submit to the indefinite

increase of her territory and power, and the constant menace
of her thousands of cannons and millions of men. It is the
only means of saving Europe from a despotism as much worse
than that of Napoleon as the Russian people are behind the
French in civilization."

     There is a certain amount of truth in this, but to avoid

misconception I wish to state that I think the danger does

not arise from the Russian Government being any worse
than our own, or than the Governments of Germany or

348  MY LIFE  [Chap.

France. All have the same insatiable craving for extending
their territories and ruling subject peoples for the benefit of

their own upper classes. Russia is only the most dangerous

because she is already so vast, and each fresh extension of

her territory adds to her already too large population, from
which to create enormous armies, which she can and will use

for further aggrandizement. It is a disgrace to Europe that
they have allowed Russia to begin the dismemberment of

China, and to leave to Japan the tremendous task of putting

a check to her progress.

    A later letter from Singapore touches on two matters of

some interest. " I quite enjoy being a short time in Singapore
again. The scene is at once so familiar and yet so strange.
The half-naked Chinese coolies, the very neat shopkeepers,

the clean, fat, old, long-tailed merchants, all as pushing and
full of business as any Londoners. Then the handsome, dark-

skinned Mings from southern India, who always ask double
what they will take, and with whom it is most amusing to
bargain. The crowd of boatmen at the ferry, a dozen beg
ging and disputing for a farthing fare ; the tall, well-dressed
Armenians ; the short, brown Malays in their native dress ;

and the numerous Portuguese clerks in black, make up a scene

doubly interesting to me now that I know something about

them, and can talk to them all in the common language of the
place-- Malay. The streets of Singapore on a fine day are
as crowded and busy as Tottenham Court Road, and from
the variety of nationalities and occupations far more interest

ing. I am more convined than ever that no one can appreciate

a new country by a short visit. After two years in the East

I only now begin to understand Singapore, and to thoroughly

appreciate the life and bustle, and the varied occupations of

so many distinct nationalities on a spot which a short time

ago was an uninhabited jungle. A volume might be written

upon it without exhausting its humours and its singularities. . . .

   " I have been spending three weeks with my old friend the

French Jesuit missionary at Bukit Tima, going daily into

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO  349

the jungle, and every Friday fasting on omelet and vegetables,
a most wholesome custom, which the Protestants erred in

leaving off. I have been reading Hue's ' Travels ' in French,

and talking a good deal with one of the missionaries just

arrived from Tonquin, who can speak no English. I have

thus obtained a good deal of information about these countries,

and about the extent of the Catholic missions in them, which

is really astonishing. How is it that they do their work so
much more thoroughly than most Protestant missions ? In

Cochin China, Tonquin, and China, where Christian mis

sionaries are obliged to live in secret, and are subject to

persecution, expulsion, or death, every province, even those

farthest in the interior of China, has its regular establishment
of missionaries constantly kept up by fresh supplies, who are
all taught the languages of the countries they are going to
at Penang or Singapore. In China there are near a million
of Catholics, in Tonquin and Cochin China more than half
 a million. One secret of their success is their mode of living.
 Each missionary is allowed about £30 a year, on which he
 lives in whatever country he may be. This has two good

 results. A large number of missionaries can be kept on

 limited funds, and the people of the country in which they
 reside, seeing that they live in poverty and with none of the
 luxuries of life, are convinced that they are sincere. Most

 of them are Frenchmen, and those I have seen or heard of

 are well-educated men, who give up their lives to the good
 of the people they live among. No wonder they make con
 verts, among the lower orders principally ; for it must be a

 great blessing to these poor people to have a man among
 them to whom they can go in any trouble or distress, whose
 sole object is to advise and help them, who visits them in
 sickness and relieves them in want, and whom they see living

 in continual danger of persecution and death only for their

  benefit."

    Before leaving Singapore I wrote a long letter to my old

fellow traveller and companion, Henry Walter Bates, then

collecting on the Upper Amazon, almost wholly devoted to

35o  MY LIFE  [Chap.

entomology, and especially giving my impressions of the
comparative richness of the two countries. As this com
parison is of interest not only to entomologists but to all

students of the geographical distribution of animals, I give it
here almost entire. The letter is dated April 30, 1856 :--

    " I must first inform you that I have just received the

Zoologist containing your letters up to September 14, 1855
(Ega), which have interested me greatly, and have almost

made me long to be again on the Amazon, even at the cost

of leaving the unknown Spice Islands still unexplored. I

have been here since February waiting for a vessel to Macassar

(Celebes), a country I look forward to with the greatest

anxiety and with expectations of vast treasures in the insect

world. Malacca, Sumatra, Java, and Borneo form but one

zoological province, the majority of the species in all classes
of animals being common to two or more of these countries.

There is decidedly less difference between them than between

Para and Santarem or Barra. I have therefore as yet only

visited the best known portion of the Archipelago, and con

sider that I am now about to commence my real work. I

have spent six months in Malacca and Singapore, and fifteen

months in Borneo (Sarawak), and have therefore got a good
idea of what this part of the Archipelago is like. Compared
with the Amazon valley, the great and striking feature here
is the excessive poverty of the Diurnal Lepidoptera. The

glorious Heliconidae are represented here by a dozen or
twenty species of generally obscure-coloured Euplceas, the

Nymphalidae containing nothing comparable with Epicalias,

Callitheas, Catagrammas, etc., either in variety or abundance

to make up for their want of brilliancy. A few species of

Adolias, Limentis, and Charaxes are the most notable forms.
The Satyridae have nothing to be placed by the side of the
lovely Haeteras of the Amazon. Your glorious Erycinidae
are represented by half a dozen rather inconspicuous species,
and even the Lycaenidae, though more numerous and com

prising some lovely species, do not come up to the Theclas
of Para. Even the dull Hesperidae are almost wanting here,

for I do not think I have yet exceeded a dozen species of

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO                            351

this family. All this is very miserable and discouraging to

one who has wandered in the forest-paths around Para or on

the sandy shores of the Amazon or Rio Negro. The only

group in which we may consider the two countries to be

about equal is that of the true Papilios (including Ornithoptera),

though even in these I think you have more species. In
cluding Ornithoptera and Leptocircus, I have found as yet
only thirty species, five of which I believe are new. Among

these is the magnificent Ornithoptera Brookeana, perhaps the

most elegant butterfly in the world.

    " To counterbalance this dearth of butterflies there should

be an abundance of other orders, or you will think I have

made a change for the worse, and compared with Para only

I                                doubtful whether at Ega you

         is,
perhaps there though  it
                         it is
have not found Coleoptera quite as abundant as they are
                               is
here. But will tell you my experience so far and then you

can decide the question, and let me know how you decide it.

You must remember that             now just two years since  aa I

reached Singapore, and out of that time have lost at least
                                      II
six months by voyages and sickness, besides six months of
                                            is
an unusually wet season at Sarawak. However, during the

dry weather at Sarawak was very fortunate in finding
                      I

good locality for beetles, at which worked hard for five or
                                   I

six months. At Singapore and Malacca collected about

thousand species of beetles, at Sarawak about two thousand,

but as about half my Singapore species occurred also at

Sarawak, reckon that my total number of species may be
I

about 2500. The most numerous group             (as presume
                                                II
with you) the Rhyncophora (weevils, etc.), of which have at

least 600 species, perhaps many more. The majority of these

are very small, and all are remarkably obscure in their colours,

being in this respect inferior to some of our British species.

There are, however, many beautiful and interesting forms,

especially among the Anthribidae, of one of which --a new
genus -- send rough sketch. The group next in point of
I

   I

                a
                                      a

                                        I

                                                                                                 a
numbers and, to me, of the highest interest are the Longicorns.
Of these obtained fifty species in the first ten days at

Singapore, and when in good locality seldom passed

352                  MY LIFE                                   [Chap.

day without getting a new one. At Malacca and Singapore
I collected about 160 species, at Sarawak 290, but as only

about fifty from the former places occurred at the latter, my

Longicorns must now reach about 400 species. . . . As to
size, I have only about thirty species which exceed an inch in

length, the majority being from one half to three quarters

of an inch, while a considerable number are two or three

lines only. I see you say you must have near 500 species
of Longicorns ; but I do not know if this refers to Ega

only, or to your whole South American collections.
     " The Geodephaga, always rare in the tropics, we must

expect to be still more so in a level forest country so near the

equator, yet I have found more species than I anticipated --
as nearly as I can reckon, a hundred --twenty-four being

Cicindelidae (tiger  beetles) of  various  groups.    hundred  and
     " Lamellicorns   are very    scarce,  about one

forty species in all, of which twenty-five are Cetoniidae, all

rare, and about the same number of Lucanidae. Elaters are

rather plentiful, but with few exceptions small and obscure.

I have one hundred and forty species, one nearly three inches

long, and several of one and a half inch. The Buprestidae

are exceedingly beautiful, but the larger and finer species are
Ivery rare.
             have one hundred and ten species, of which half

are under one-third of an inch long, though one, CatoxantJia

bicolor, is two and a half inches. Two genera of Cleridae are
rather abundant, others rare ; but I have obtained about fifty

species, which, compared with the very few previously known,
is very satisfactory. Of the remaining groups, in which I

took less interest, I have not accurately noted the number of

species.
     " The individual abundance of beetles is not, however, so
Ilarge as the number of species would indicate.
                                                      hardly

collect on an average more than fifty beetles a day, in which

number there will be from thirty to forty species. Often, in

Ifact, twenty or thirty beetles are as much as can scrape

together, even when giving my whole attention to them, for

butterflies are too scarce to distract it. Of the other orders
of insects, I have no accurate notes ; the species, however, of

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO       353

all united (excluding Lepidoptera) about equal those of the

beetles. I found one place only where I could collect moths,

and have obtained altogether about one thousand species,

mostly of small or average size. My total number of species
of insects, therefore, I reckon at about six thousand, and of

specimens collected about thirty thousand. From these data

I think you will be able to form a pretty good judgment of

the comparative entomological riches of the two countries.

The matter, however, will not be definitely settled till I have
visited Celebes, the Moluccas, etc., which I hope to find as

much superior to the western group of islands as the Upper

is to the Lower Amazon.

    " In other branches of Natural History I have as yet done

little. The birds of Malacca and Borneo, though beautiful,

are too well known to be worth collecting largely. With

the orang-utans I was successful, obtaining fifteen skins and
skeletons, and proving, I think, the existence of two species,

hitherto a disputed question. The forests here are scarcely

to be distinguished from those of Brazil, except by the

frequent presence of the various species of Calamus (Rattan
palms) and the Pandani (Screw pines), and by the rarity of
those Leguminous trees with finely divided foliage, which are

so frequent in the Amazonian forests. The people and their

customs I hardly like as well as those of Brazil, but the com

paratively new settlements of Singapore and Sarawak are
not quite comparable with the older towns of the Amazon.

Here provisions and labour are dear, and travelling is both

tedious and expensive. Servants' wages are high, and the

customs of the country do not permit you to live in the free-

and-easy style of Brazil.

· ··                       ·· ·

" I must tell you that the fruits of the East are a delusion.
Never have I seen a place where fruits are more scarce and

poor than at Singapore. In Malacca and Sarawak they are

more abundant, but there is nothing to make up for the

deficiency of oranges, which are so poor and sour that they

would hardly be eaten even in England. There are only two

good fruits, the mangosteen and the durian. The first is a

VOL. I.                     2A

354 MY LIFE CChap.

very delicate juicy fruit, but hardly worthy of the high place

that has been given it ; the latter, however, is a wonderful

fruit, quite unique of its kind, and worth coming to the Malay
Archipelago to enjoy ; it is totally unlike every other fruit

A thick glutinous, almond-flavoured custard is the only thing

it can be compared to, but which it far surpasses. These

two fruits, however, can only be had for about two months in

the year, and everywhere, except far into the interior, they

are dear. The plantains and bananas even are poor, like the

worst sorts in South America.

   I"May loth. --The ship for which I have been waiting

nearly three months is in at last, and in about a week hope
to be off for Macassar. The monsoon, however, is against

us, and we shall probably have a long passage, perhaps forty

days. Celebes is quite as unknown as was the Upper

Amazon before your visit to perhaps even more so. In
                it,
                            a
                                                                    ; is
the British Museum catalogues of Cetoniidae, Buprestidae,

Longicorns, and Papilionidae, not  single specimen

recorded from Celebes, and very few from the Moluccas

but the fine large species described by the old naturalists,

some of which have recently been obtained by Madame

Reiffer, give promise of what systematic collection may

produce."

Before giving general sketch of my life and work in less
                Ia
                             I
                                  I

                                            I
                                                                       a
                                                                         I
known parts of the Archipelago, must refer to an article

wrote while in Sarawak, which formed my first contribution

to the great question of the origin of species. It was written

during the wet season, while was staying in little house

at the mouth of the Sarawak river, at the foot of the Santu-

bong mountain.  was quite alone, with one Malay boy as

cook, and during the evenings and wet days had nothing to

do but to look over my books and ponder over the problem

which was rarely absent from my thoughts. Having always
been interested in the geographical distribution of animals

and plants, having studied Swainson and Humboldt, and

having now myself vivid impression of the fundamental
                a

                                                                                                 ;
differences between the Eastern and Western tropics and

xxi] THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO                                        355

having also read through such books as Bonaparte's " Con

spectus," already referred to, and several catalogues of insects

and reptiles in the British Museum (which I almost knew by

heart), giving a mass of facts as to the distribution of animals

over the whole world, it occurred to me that these facts had

never been properly utilized as indications of the way in

which species had come into existence. The great work of

Lyell had furnished me with the main features of the succes
sion of species in time, and by combining the two I thought

that some valuable conclusions might be reached. I accord

ingly put my facts and ideas on paper, and the result seeming

to me to be of some importance, I sent it to The Annals and

Magazine of Natural History, in which it appeared in the
following September (1855). Its title was "On the Law
which has regulated the Introduction of New Species," which
law was briefly stated (at the end) as follows : " Every species
has come into existence coincident both in space and time with a

pre-existing closely-allied species" This clearly pointed to some

kind of evolution. It suggested the when and the where of

its occurrence, and that it could only be through natural
                                       the " Vestiges  "
generation, as was also suggested  in                        but  the
                                                          ;

how was still a secret only to be penetrated some years later.

     Soon after this article appeared, Mr. Stevens wrote me

that he had heard several naturalists express regret that I

was " theorizing," when what we had to do was to collect

more facts. After this, I had in a letter to Darwin expressed

surprise that no notice appeared to have been taken of my

paper, to which he replied that both Sir Charles Lyell and

Mr. Edward Blyth, two very good men, specially called his

attention to it. I was, however, rewarded later, when in

Huxley's chapter, "On the Reception of the Origin of
Species," contributed to the " Life and Letters," he referred
to this paper as -- " his powerful essay," adding --" On reading

it afresh I have been astonished to recollect how small was

the impression   it made"                  185). The article
reprinted in my  " Natural             and Tropical Nature."
                                   ii.
                                         p.
                                                                                   is
                               (vol.
                            Selection

CHAPTER XXII

CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, NEW GUINEA, TIMOR,
                     JAVA, AND SUMATRA

Having been unable to find a vessel direct to Macassar, I took
passage to Lombok, whence I was assured I should easily

reach my destination. By this delay, which seemed to me at

the time a misfortune, I was enabled to make some very in

teresting collections in Bali and Lombok, two islands which
II should otherwise never have seen.
                                      was thus enabled to

determine the exact boundary between two of the primary

zoological regions, the Oriental and the Australian, and
also to see the only existing remnant of the Hindu race and

religion, and of the old civilization which had erected the

wonderful ruined temples in Java centuries before the
Mohammedan invasion of the archipelago.

    After two months and a half in Lombok, I found a
passage to Macassar, which I reached the beginning of
September, and lived there nearly three months, when I left
for the Aru Islands in a native prau. The country around

Macassar greatly disappointed me, as it was perfectly flat

and all cultivated as rice fields, the only sign of woods being

the palms and fruit trees in the suburbs of Macassar and

others marking the sites of native villages. I had letters to

a Dutch merchant who spoke English as well as Malay and

the Bugis language of Celebes, and who was quite friendly

with the native rajah of the adjacent territory. Through

his good offices I was enabled to stay at a native village

about eight miles inland, where there were some patches

35*



[Chap. XXII] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.  357

of forest, and where I at once obtained some of the rare

Ibirds and insects peculiar to Celebes. After about a month

   returned to Macassar, and found that I could obtain a

passage to the celebrated Aru Islands, where at least two
species of birds of paradise are found, and which had never

been visited by an English collector. This was a piece of

good fortune I had not expected, and it was especially

fortunate because the next six months would be wet in
Celebes, while it would be the dry season in the Aru Islands.

This journey was the most successful of any that I undertook,

as is fully described in my book ; and as no letters referring

to it have been preserved, I shall say no more about it

here.

     The illustration opposite is from a photograph of a native
house in the island of Wokan, which was given me by the

late Professor Moseley of the Challenger expedition, because

it so closely resembles the hut in which I lived for a fort
night, and where I obtained my first King bird of paradise,
that I feel sure it must be the same, especially as I saw no
other like it. It is described at the beginning of chapter xxxi.

of my " Malay Archipelago," and will be of interest to such
of my readers as possess that work.

    Several months later I arrived again at Macassar, and
after arranging and despatching my Aru collections, I went

to an estate a few days' journey north, the property of a

brother of my kind friend Mr. Mesman. I had a house
built for me in a patch of forest where I lived with two

Malay servants for three; months making very interesting

collections both of birds and insects ; and I have rarely
enjoyed myself so much as I did here. About the end of
November I returned to Macassar, and in December em

barked on the Dutch mail steamer for Amboyna, calling by

the way at Timor and at Banda.

    At Amboyna I made the acquaintance of a German and

a Hungarian doctor, both entomologists, and in a fortnight's

visit to an estate in the interior surrounded by virgin forest

I obtained some of the lovely birds and gorgeous insects
which have made the island celebrated. The only letter I

35«                     MY LIFE                                                 [Chap.

possess which indicates something of my opinions and antici
pations at this period of my travels is one to Bates, dated

Amboyna, January 4, 1858, from which I will make a few

extracts. The larger portion is occupied with remarks on the

comparative riches of our respective regions in the various

families of beetles, founded on a letter I had received from

him a few months before, which, though very interesting to
Ientomologists, are not suitable for reproduction here.
                                                                                then

touched on the subject of my paper referred to at the end of

the last chapter.

    " To persons who have not thought much on the subject

I fear my paper on the ' Succession of Species ' will not

appear so clear as it does to you. That paper of course,
                                                                     is,
                                                                             a
merely the announcement of the theory, not its development.

have prepared the plan and written portions of work
I

                      '
                             '

                 I
                          II

                                                               is a
embracing the whole subject, and have endeavoured to prove

in detail what have as yet only indicated. It was the pro

mulgation of Forbes's theory of 'polarity' which led me to

write and publish, for was annoyed to see such an ideal

absurdity put forth, when such simple hypothesis will

explain all the facts.  have been much gratified by letter
                                                                     'a
from Darwin, in which he says that he agrees with almost                  is

every word of my paper. He now preparing his great

work on Species and Varieties,' for which he has been collect

ing materials twenty years. He may save me the trouble of

writing more on my hypothesis, by proving that there no

difference in nature between the origin of species and of

varieties or he may give me trouble by arriving at another
     ;
           ;
conclusion but, at all events, his facts will be given for me to

work upon. Your collections and my own will furnish most

valuable material to illustrate and prove the universal applic

ability of the hypothesis. The connection between the

succession of affinities and the geographical distribution of                   a

group, worked out species by species, has never yet been

shown as we shall be able to show it.

    " In this archipelago there are two distinct faunas rigidly

circumscribed, which differ as much as do those of Africa

and South America, and more than those of Europe and

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.                         359

North America ; yet there is nothing on the map or on the

face of the islands to mark their limits. The boundary line

passes between islands closer together than others belonging

to the same group. I believe the western part to be a

separated portion of continental Asia, while the eastern is a

fragmentary prolongation of a former west Pacific continent.
In mammalia and birds the distinction is marked by genera,

families, and even orders confined to one region ; in insects

by a number of genera, and little groups of peculiar species,

the families of insects having generally a very wide or

universal distribution."

    This letter proves that at this time I had not the least

idea of the nature of Darwin's proposed work nor of the

definite conclusions he had arrived at, nor had I myself any

expectation of a complete solution of the great problem to

which my paper was merely the prelude. Yet less than two

months later that solution flashed upon me, and to a large

extent marked out a different line of work from that which
I had up to this time anticipated.
I finished the letter after my arrival at Ternate (January
"If25, 1858), and made the following observation :
                                                      you go to
the Andes I think you will be disappointed, at least in the

number of species, especially of Coleoptera. My experience

here is that the low grounds are much the most productive,

though the mountains generally produce a few striking and

brilliant species." This rather hasty generalization
                                    if                    am

inclined still to think, correct one, at all events as regardsa
                         a                           is
the individual collector.      doubt there any mountain
                           aI                          a it iIs,
                                                               II
station in the world where so many species of butterflies

can be collected within walk as at Para, or more beetles

than at my station in Borneo and Bates' at Ega. Yet may

be the case that many areas of about hundred miles square

in the Andes and in the Himalayas actually contain larger

number of species than any similar area in the lowlands of
the Amazon or of Borneo. In other parts of this letter

refer to the work hoped to do myself in describing, cata
I

loguing, and working out the distribution of my insects.

had in fact been bitten by the passion for species and their

360                           MY LIFE                  [Chap.

description, and if neither Darwin nor myself had hit upon
" Natural Selection," I might have spent the best years of my

life in this comparatively profitless work. But the new ideas

swept all this away. I have for the most part left others to

describe my discoveries, and have devoted myself to the

great generalizations which the laborious work of species-

describers had rendered possible. In this letter to Bates I

enclosed a memorandum of my estimate of the number of

distinct species of insects I had collected up to the time of
writing--three years and a half, nearly one year of which had

been lost in journeys, illnesses, and various delays.  The

totals were as follows :--

     Butterflies                        620 species

     Moths                              ... 2000 »

     Beetles      ...    ...  ... ...   ... 37oo  11

     Bees, wasps, etc                   ... 750   n

     Flies ...    ...    ...  ...  ...  ... 660   n

     Bugs, cicadas, etc                 500 n

     Locusts, etc.                      ... 160   n

     Dragonflies, etc                   110       11

     Earwigs, etc.                      40 11

                       Total            ... 8540 species of Insects.

     It was while waiting at Ternate in order to get ready for
my next journey, and to decide where I should go, that the
idea already referred to occurred to me. It has been shown

how, for the preceding eight or nine years, the great problem
of the origin of species had been continually pondered over,

and how my varied observations and study had been made
use of to lay the foundation for its full discussion and

elucidation. My paper written at Sarawak rendered it

certain to my mind that the change had taken place by

natural succession and descent --one species becoming changed
either slowly or rapidly into another. But the exact process
of the change and the causes which led to it were absolutely
unknown and appeared almost inconceivable. The great
difficulty was to understand how, if one species was gradually

changed into another, there continued to be so many quite
distinct species, so many which differed from their nearest

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.  361

allies by slight yet perfectly definite and constant characters.
One would expect that if it was a law of nature that species
were continually changing so as to become in time new and
distinct species, the world would be full of an inextricable
mixture of various slightly different forms, so that the

well-defined and constant species we see would not exist.

Again, not only are species, as a rule, separated from each
other by distinct external characters, but they almost always
differ also to some degree in their food, in the places they
frequent, in their habits and instincts, and all these characters
are quite as definite and constant as are the external characters.
The problem then was, not only how and why do species

change, but how and why do they change into new and well-

defined species, distinguished from each other in so many

ways ; why and how do they become so exactly adapted to
distinct modes of life ; and why do all the intermediate grades
die out (as geology shows they have died out) and leave only
clearly defined and well-marked species, genera, and higher
groups of animals.

     Now, the new idea or principle which Darwin had arrived

at twenty years before, and which occurred to me at this time,

answers all these questions and solves all these difficulties,
and it is because it does so, and also because it is in itself

self-evident and absolutely certain, that it has been accepted
by the whole scientific world as affording a true solution of
the great problem of the origin of species.

    At the time in question I was suffering from a sharp

attack of intermittent fever, and every day during the cold

and succeeding hot fits had to lie down for several hours,

during which time I had nothing to do but to think over any

subjects then particularly interesting me. One day something
brought to my recollection Malthus's " Principles of Popula

tion," which I had read about twelve years before. I thought

of his clear exposition of " the positive checks to increase "--
disease, accidents, war, and famine --which keep down the
population of savage races to so much lower an average than
that of more civilized peoples. It then occurred to me that

these causes or their equivalents are continually acting in the

362 MY LIFE [Chat.

case of animals also ; and as animals usually breed much more

rapidly than does mankind, the destruction every year from

these causes must be enormous in order to keep down the

numbers of each species, since they evidently do not increase

regularly from year to year, as otherwise the world would long

ago have been densely crowded with those that breed most

quickly. Vaguely thinking over the enormous and constant

destruction which this implied, it occurred to me to ask the

question, Why do some die and some live ? And the answer

was clearly, that on the whole the best fitted live. From the

effects of disease the most healthy escaped ; from enemies,

the strongest, the swiftest, or the most cunning ; from famine,

the best hunters or those with the best digestion ; and so on.
Then it suddenly flashed upon me that this self-acting process

would necessarily improve the race, because in every genera

tion the inferior would inevitably be killed off and the
superior would remain --that
I
                                 is,
                                             it

                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                    a
                              the fittest would survive.
Then at once seemed to see the whole effect of this, that

when changes of land and sea, or of climate, or of food-
supply, or of enemies occurred --and we know that such
changes have always been taking place--and considering the

amount of individual variation that my experience as

collector had shown me to exist, then followed that all

the changes necessary for the adaptation of the species to

the changing conditions would be brought about and as

great changes in the environment are always slow, there

would be ample time for the change to be effected by the

survival of the best fitted in every generation. In this way

every part of an animal's organization could be modified

exactly as required, and in the very process of this modifica

tion the unmodified would die out, and thus the definite
characters and the clear isolation of each new species would

be explained. The more        thought over  the more
I
                     I

                            II

                                                                      it

                                                                      in I
became convinced that had at length found the long-sought-

for law of nature that solved the problem of the origin of

species. For the next hour thought over the deficiencies
the theories of Lamarck and of the author of the " Vestiges,"

and saw that my new theory supplemented these views and

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.  363

obviated every important difficulty. I waited anxiously for
the termination of my fit so that I might at once make notes
for a paper on the subject. The same evening I did this

pretty fully, and on the two succeeding evenings wrote it

out carefully in order to send it to Darwin by the next post,
which would leave in a day or two.

    I wrote a letter to him in which I said that I hoped the

idea would be as new to him as it was to me, and that it

would supply the missing factor to explain the origin of

species. I asked him if he thought it sufficiently important

to show it to Sir Charles Lyell, who had thought so highly of

my former paper.

     The subsequent history of this article is fully given in the

" Life and Letters," volume ii., and I was, of course, very

much surprised to find that the same idea had occurred to

Darwin, and that he had already nearly completed a large

work fully developing it. The paper is reprinted in my
" Natural Selection and Tropical Nature," and in reading it

now it must be remembered that it was but a hasty first sketch,

that I had no opportunity of revising it before it was printed

in the journal of the Linnean Society, and, especially, that

at that time nobody had any idea of the constant variability

of every common species, in every part and organ, which has

since been proved to exist. Almost all the popular objec

tions to Natural Selections are due to ignorance of this fact,

and to the erroneous assumption that what are called
" favourable variations " occur only rarely, instead of being

abundant, as they certainly are, in every generation, and
quite large enough for the efficient action of " survival of the
fittest " in the improvement of the race.

     During the first months of my residence at Ternate I
made two visits to different parts of the large island of Gilolo,

where my hunters obtained a number of very fine birds, but
owing to the absence of good virgin forest and my own ill-

health, I obtained very few insects. At length, on March 25,
I obtained a passage to Dorey Harbour, on the north coast

of New Guinea, in a trading schooner, which left me there,

364  MY LIFE  [Chap.

and called for me three or four months later to bring me

back to Ternate. I was the first European who had lived

alone on this great island ; but partly owing to an accident

which confined me to the house for a month, and partly

because the locality was not a good one, I did not get the
rare species of birds of paradise I had expected. I obtained,

however, a number of new and rare birds and a fine collection

of insects, though not so many of the larger and finer kinds

as I expected. The weather had been unusually wet, and
the place was unhealthy. I had four Malay servants with

me, three of whom had fever as well as myself, and one of
my hunters died, and though I should have liked to have
stayed longer, we were all weak or unwell, and were very

glad when the schooner arrived and took us back to Ternate.

Here wholesome food and a comfortable house soon restored

us to good health.

   IWhen I unpacked and examined my collections found

that the birds I had obtained were very numerous and beautiful,

and as my journey and residence in New Guinea had created

much interest among my numerous Dutch friends in Ternate,

I determined to make a little exhibition of them. I accord
ingly let it be known that I would be glad to see visitors
on the next Sunday afternoon. I had a long table in the
verandah which I had covered with new " trade " calico, and

on this I laid out the best specimens of all my most showy
or strange birds. There were numbers of gorgeous lories,

parrots, and parrakeets, white and black cockatoos, exquisite
fruit-pigeons of a great variety of colours, many fine king

fishers from the largest to the most minute, as well as the

beautiful raquet-tailed species, beautiful black, green, and
blue ground-thrushes, some splendid specimens of the Papuan

and King paradise-birds, and many beautiful bee-eaters, rollers,

fly-catchers, grakles, sun-birds, and paradise-crows, making
altogether such an assemblage of strange forms and brilliant
colours as no one of my visitors had ever imagined to exist so

near them. Even I myself was surprised at the beauty of the

show when thus brought together and displayed on the white
table, which so well set off their varied and brilliant colours.

xxil] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.      365

I now received letters informing me of the reception of
"Ithe paper on " Varieties," which I had sent to Darwin, and
in a letter home I thus refer to it :  have received letters

from Mr. Darwin and Dr. Hooker, two of the most eminent

naturalists in England, which have highly gratified me. I

sent Mr. Darwin an essay on a subject upon which he is
now writing a great work. He showed it to Dr. Hooker and

Sir Charles Lyell, who thought so highly of it that they had

it read before the Linnean Society. This insures me the
acquaintance of these eminent men on my return home." I

also refer to my next voyage as follows :-- " I am now about

to start for a place where there are some soldiers, and a

doctor, and an engineer who can speak English, so if it is

good for collecting I shall stay there some months. It is

called ' Batchian,' an island on the south-west side of Gilolo,

and three or four days' sail from Ternate. I have now quite

recovered from the effects of my New Guinea voyage, and

am in good health."

    I reached Batchian on October 21, and about a month

afterwards, there being a Government boat going to Ternate,

I took the opportunity of writing to my school-fellow and

oldest friend, Mr. George Silk. As he knew nothing what

ever of natural history, I wrote to him on subjects more

personal to myself, and which may therefore be more suitable

to quote here :--
     " I have just received yours of August 3 with reminis

cences of Switzerland. To you it seems a short time since

we were there together, to me an immeasurable series of

ages ! In fact, Switzerland and the Amazon now seem to
me quite unreal -- a sort of former existence or long-ago

dream.) Malays and Papuans, beetles and birds, are what
now occupy my thoughts, mixed with financial calculations

and hopes for a happy future in old England, where I may

live in solitude and seclusion, except from a few choice

friends. You cannot, perhaps, imagine how I have come to
love solitude. I seldom have a visitor but I wish him away
in an hour. I find it very favourable to reflection ; and if

you have any acquaintance who is a fellow of the Linnean

366 MY LIFE [Chaa

Society, borrow the Journal of Proceedings for August last,
and in the last article you will find some of my latest lucubra

tions, and also some complimentary remarks thereon by Sir
           Lyell and Dr. Hooker,          (apsoliIticksn,owI
Charles     am a little proud of.  which                      neither of
                                                              hate and
them) I                            As to
abominate them. The news from India I now never read,

as it is all an inextricable confusion without good maps and
regular papers. Mine come in lumps --two or three months
Iat a time, often with alternate issues stolen or lost.
                                                                 there
fore beg you to write no more politics --nothing public or

newspaperish. Tell me about yourself, your own private

doings, your health, your visits, your new and old acquaint

ances (for I know you pick up half a dozen every week a la

Barragan). But, above all, tell me of what you read. Have
you read the ' Currency ' book I returned you, ' Home Tooke,'

' Bentham,' Family Herald leading articles ? Give me your

opinions on any or all of these. Follow the advice in Family
Herald Article on ' Happiness,' Ride a Hobby, and you will

assuredly find happiness in        as do. Let ethnology be
                                   it,

                                    I

                                        I
                                            I
your hobby, as you seem already to have put your foot in

the stirrup, but ride hard. If live to return shall come
              &                                'I
                   it

                                !
out strong on Malay and Papuan races, and shall astonish

Latham, Davis, Co. By-the-by, have a letter from

Davis he says he sent my last letter to you, and              it      lost
'                                                                 is
       ;1
mysteriously. Instead, therefore, of sending me reply to
                                                           a

my poser,' he repeats what he has said in every letter have
                                                              I

had from him, that myriads of miracles are required to'

people the earth from one source.'  I  am sick of him. You

must read Pritchard through, and Lawrence's Lectures on
'
             '

                             ;

                 I'
Man carefully but am convinced no man can be good
                                                              a

ethnologist who does not travel, and not travel merely, but

reside, as do, months and years with each race, becoming
           I

well acquainted with their average physiognomy and their

character, so as to be able to detect cross-breeds, which totally

mislead the hasty traveller, who thinks they are transitions
         I

           J.1 I
                               is
                                          I
                                                                                                                                   I
Latham, am sure, quite wrong on many points.
     " When went to New Guinea, took an old copy of

              Barnard Davis, the well-known craniologist.

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.                                    367

I· Tristram Shandy,' which read through about three times.

It is an annoying and, you will perhaps say, a very gross

book ; but there are passages in it that have never been

surpassed, while the character of Uncle Toby has, I think,

Inever been equalled, except perhaps by that of Don Quixote.

   have lately read a good many of Dumas's wonderful novels,

and they are wonderful, but often very careless and some
quite unfinished. ' The Memoirs of a Physician ' is a wonder

ful wild mixture of history, science, and romance ; the second

part, the Queen's Necklace, being the most wonderful and,
perhaps, the most true. You should read
                                                                     you have not
                                                   !

                                                      it,

                                                        if
                                                               it
yet done so, when you are horribly bored                             seems to
     " In reference to your private communication,

me that marriage has wonderful effect in brightening the
'

          a;
                                               'a
intellect. For example, John used not to be considered

witty yet in his last letter he begs me to write to him

semi-occasionally,' or oftener                     have time,' and send
                                                   iIf

                                                                          is

                                                                     I
                                                                          I

                                                                                                            a
not bad extract from his letter. By this mail send more

than dozen letters, for my correspondence increasing."

On my return to Ternate in April, 1859, after spending

nearly six months in Batchian, where had made fairly good
                                                   I
                                                        I

                                                                  a
though not very large collections, including new and very
peculiar bird of paradise and a grand new butterfly of the

largest size and most gorgeous colouring, determined to go

next to Timor for short time, and afterward to Menado, at
           I
                          a
the north-eastern extremity of Celebes, from which place

some of the most interesting birds and mammalia had been

obtained.   had, of course, my usual large batch of letters

to reply to. One of these from my brother-in-law, Mr.

Thomas Sims, urged me very strongly to return home before

my health was seriously affected, and for many other reasons.

In my reply gave full expressions to my ideas and feelings
a

         I

                                    I

                                                     I
compelling me to remain a few years longer, and as these
are part of the history of my life and character, will give

them here.

"Your ingenious arguments to persuade me to come

home are quite unconvincing.                       have much to do yet before

368  MY LIFE                                          [Chap.

I can return with satisfaction of mind ; were I to leave now
I should be ever regretful and unhappy. That alone is an
all-sufficient reason. I feel that my work is here as well as
my pleasure ; and why should I not follow out my vocation ?
IAs to materials for work at home, you are in error.
                                                      have,

indeed, materials for a life's study of entomology, as far as

the forms and structure and affinities of insects are con

Icerned ; but am engaged in a wider and more general

study --that of the relations of animals to space and time, or,

in other words, their geographical and geological distribution

and its causes. I have set myself to work out this problem
in the Indo-Australian Archipelago, and I must visit and

explore the largest number of islands possible, and collect

materials from the greatest number of localities, in order to
arrive at any definite results. As to health and life, what

are they compared with peace and happiness ? and happiness

is admirably defined in the Family Herald as to be best

obtained by ' work with a purpose, and the nobler the pur

pose the greater the happiness.' But besides these weighty
reasons there are others quite as powerful -- pecuniary ones.

I have not yet made enough to live upon, and I am likely to
make it quicker here than I could in England. In England
there is only one way in which I could live, by returning to
my old profession of land-surveying. Now, though I always

liked surveying, I like collecting better, and I could never

now give my whole mind to any work apart from the study

to which I have devoted my life. So far from being angry

at being called an enthusiast (as you seem to suppose), it is
my pride and glory to be worthy to be so called. Who ever

did anything good or great who was not an enthusiast ? The
majority of mankind are enthusiasts only in one thing--in

money-getting ; and these call others enthusiasts as a term
of reproach because they think there is something in the

world better than money-getting. It strikes me that the

power or capability of a man in getting rich is in an inverse

proportion to his reflective powers and in direct proportion

to his impudence. It is perhaps good to be rich, but not to

get rich, or to be always trying to get rich, and few men

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.                     369

are less fitted to get rich, if they did try, than myself."
The rest of the letter is devoted to new discoveries in

photography and allied subjects.

   I left Ternate by the Dutch mail steamer on May 1,

1859, calling at Amboyna and spending two days at Banda,

where I visited the celebrated nutmeg plantations, reaching

Coupang, at the west end of Timor, on the 13th. The country

round proving almost a desert for a collector, I went to the
small island of Semau, where I obtained a few birds, but
little else. I therefore returned to Coupang after a week
and determined to go back the way I came by Amboyna

and Ternate to Menado, in order to lose no time, and arrived

there on June 10. Here I remained for four months in one
of the most interesting districts in the whole archipelago. I

visited several localities in the interior, and obtained a
number of the rare and peculiar species of birds and a con
siderable collection of beetles and butterflies, mostly rare or

new, but by no means so numerous as I had obtained in

other good localities.

    In October I returned to Amboyna in order to visit the

almost unknown island of Ceram, which, however, I found
very unproductive and unhealthy. While there I wrote a

short letter to Bates, congratulating him on his safe return

to England, discussing great schemes for the writing and
publication of works on our respective collections, adding,

" I have sent a paper lately to the Linnean Society which

gives my views of the principles of geographical distribu

tion in the archipelago, of which I hope some day to work

out the details." 1

    In December, being almost starved, I returned to Amboyna

to recruit, and in February started on another journey to

Ceram, with the intention, if possible, of again reaching the
Ke Islands, which I had found so rich during the few days I
stayed there on my voyage to the Aru Islands. I visited

several places on the coast of Ceram, and spent three days

very near its centre, where a very rough mountain path

    1 The title of this paper was "On the Zoological  Geography of Malay
                                                                  2B
Archipelago," and it was published in 1860.

      VOL. I.

37Q  MY LIFE  [Chap.

crosses from the south to the north coast. But never in the
whole of my tropical wanderings have I found a luxuriant
forest so utterly barren of almost every form of animal life.

Though I had three guns out daily, I did not get a single

bird worth having ; beetles, too, were totally wanting ; and

the very few butterflies seen were most difficult to capture.

Those who imagine that a tropical forest in the very midst
of so rich a region as the Moluccas must produce abundance
of birds and insects, would have been woefully disillusioned

if they could have been with me here. After immense diffi

Iculties reached Goram, about fifty miles beyond the east end

of Ceram, where I purchased a boat and started for K.6 ; but

after getting half-way, the weather was so bad and the winds

so adverse that I was obliged to return to the Matabello

Islands, and thence by way of Goram and the north coast of
Ceram to the great island of Waigiou. This was a long and

most unfortunate voyage, as fully described elsewhere. I
found there, however, what I chiefly went for --the rare red

bird of paradise (Paradisea rubra) ; but during the three

months I lived there, often with very little food, I obtained

only about seventy species of birds, mostly the same as those
from New Guinea, though a few species of parrots, pigeons,
kingfishers, and other birds were new. Insects were never

abundant, but by continued perseverance I obtained rather

more species of both butterflies and beetles than at New

Guinea, though fewer, I think, of the more showy kinds.

     The voyage from Waigiou back to Ternate was again
most tedious and unfortunate, occupying thirty-eight days,
whereas with reasonably favourable weather it should not

have required more than ten or twelve. Taking my whole

voyage in this canoe from Goram to Waigiou and Ternate, I

thus summarize my account of it in my "Malay Archipelago" :
" My first crew ran away in a body ; two men were lost on

a desert island, and only recovered a month later after twice
sending in search of them ; we were ten times run aground

on coral reefs ; we lost four anchors ; our sails were devoured

by rats ; our small boat was lost astern ; we were thirty-eight
days on a voyage which should not have taken twelve ; we

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.  371

were many times short of food and water ; we had no com
pass-lamp owing to there being not a drop of oil in Waigiou
when we left ; and, to crown all, during our whole voyage from

Goram by Ceram to Waigiou, and from Waigiou to Ternate,

occupying in all seventy-eight days (or only twelve days
short of three months), all in what was supposed to be the

favourable season, we had not one single day of fair wind.
We were always close braced up, always struggling against

wind, currents, and leeway, and in a vessel that would scarcely

sail nearer than eight points from the wind I Every seaman
will admit that my first (and last) voyage in a boat of my
 own was a very unfortunate one."

     While living at Bessir, the little village where I went to
get the red paradise birds, I wrote a letter to my friend
 George Silk, which I finished and posted after my arrival at
 Ternate. As such letters as this, absolutely familiar and con

 fidential, exhibit my actual feelings, opinions, and ideas at

 the time, I reproduce it here :--

"My  dear George,                   " Bessir, September 1, i860.
       " It is now ten  months since the date of my last

letter from England. You may fancy therefore that, in the
expressive language of the trappers, I am 'half froze' for

news. No such thing! Except for my own family and

personal affairs I care not a straw and scarcely give a thought

as to what may be uppermost in the political world. In my

situation old newspapers are just as good as new ones, and

I enjoy the odd scraps, in which I do up my birds (advertise

ments and all), as much as you do your Times at breakfast.

If I live to return to Ternate in another month, I expect to
get such a deluge of communications that I shall probably
have no time to answer any of them. I therefore bestow one

of my solitary evenings on answering yours beforehand. By-

Ithe-by, you do not yet know where I am, for defy all the

members of the Royal Geographical Society in full conclave

to tell you where is the place from which I date this letter.

I must inform you, therefore, that it is a village on the

372                   MY LIFE                                     [Chap.

south-west coast of the island of Waigiou, at the north-west'

extremity of New Guinea. How I came here would be tooit,

long to tell, the details I send to my mother and refer you'

to her. While hon. members are shooting partridges I amif

shooting, or trying to shoot, birds of paradise --red at that,ais
as our friend Morris Haggar would say. But enough of thisa
nonsense. I meant to write you of matters more worthy of aif
naturalist's pen. I have been reading of late two books ofI
the highest interest, but of most diverse characters, and I wish
to recommend their perusal to you if you have time for anyitit I
thing but work or politics. They are Dr. Leon Dufour'sis
' Histoire de la Prostitution ' and Darwin's ' Origin of Species.'
               I
If there is an English translation of the first, pray get it.
'    '                              is,
Every student of men and morals should read and many
who talk glibly of putting down the social evil were firstaI

to devote few days to its study, they would be both much          a
                                                                          in of
better qualified to give an opinion and much more diffident
of their capacity to deal with it. The work truly a history,
and great one, and reveals pictures of human nature more
wild and incredible than the pen of the romancist ever dared

to delineate. doubt many classical scholars have an idea

of what were really the habits and daily life of the Romans

as here delineated. Again say, read it.
      " The other book you may have heard of and perhaps read,

but not one perusal which will enable any man to
 appreciate it. have read through five or six times, each

time with increasing admiration. It will live as long as the
  Principia of Newton. It shows that nature as before

 remarked to you, study that yields to none in grandeur and
 immensity. The cycles of astronomy or even the periods of
 geology will alone enable us to appreciate the vast depths of

 time we have to contemplate in the endeavour to understand
the slow growth of life upon the earth. The most intricate
 effects of the law of gravitation, the mutual disturbances
 all the bodies of the solar system, are simplicity itself com
 pared with the intricate relations and complicated struggle
which have determined what forms of life shall exist and

 what proportions. Mr. Darwin has given the world new

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.                 373

science, and his name should, in my opinion, stand above that

of every philosopher of ancient or modern times.  The force
of admiration can no further go ! ! ! "

            " On board steamer from Ternate to Timor, January 2, 1861.

    " I have come home safe to Ternate and left it again. For
two months I was stupefied with my year's letters, accounts,

papers, magazines, and books, in addition to the manipula

tion, cleaning, arranging, comparing, and packing for safe
transmission to the other side of the world of about 16,000

specimens of insects, birds, and shells. This has been
intermingled with the troubles of preparing for new voyages,

laying in stores, hiring men, paying or refusing to pay their
debts, running after them when they try to run away, going
to the town with lists of articles absolutely necessary for the
voyage, and finding that none of them could be had for love
or money, conceiving impossible substitutes and not being
able to get them either,--and all this coming upon me when

I am craving repose from the fatigues and privations of an

unusually dangerous and miserable voyage, and you may

imagine that I have not been in any great humour for letter-

writing.

   "I think I may promise you that in eighteen months,

more or less, we may meet again, if nothing unforeseen occurs.

                                                                 " Yours,

                                                               " A. R. W."

     Just before leaving   Ternate   I also wrote to Bates, chiefly
about the " Origin of     Species "
                                      and some of my results on

geographicai distribution.

"Dear Bates,                         "Ternate, December 24, 1860.

" Many thanks for your long and interesting letter.
I have myself suffered much in the same way as you describe,
and I think more severely. The kind of tadium vitce you
mention I also occasionally experience here. I impute it to

a too monotonous existence.

374  MY LIFE               [Chap.

    " I know not how, or to whom, to express fully my
admiration of Darwin's book. To him it would seem

flattery, to others self-praise ; but I do honestly believe
that with however much patience I had worked and

experimented on the subject, I could never have approached
the completeness of his book, its vast accumulation of

evidence, its overwhelming argument, and its admirable

tone and spirit. I really feel thankful that it has not been

left to me to give the theory to the world. Mr. Darwin

Ihas created a new science and a new philosophy ; and

believe that never has such a complete illustration of a

new branch of human knowledge been due to the labours
and researches of a single man. Never have such vast

masses of widely scattered and hitherto quite unconnected

facts been combined into a system and brought to bear
upon the establishment of such a grand and new and simple

philosophy.

   "I am surprised at your joining the north and south

banks of the lower Amazon into one region. Did you not

find a sufficiency of distinct species at Obydos and Barra

to separate them from Villa Nova and Santarem ? I am

now convinced that insects, on the whole, do not give such
true indications of zoological geography as birds and mam

mals, because, first, they have such immensely greater means

of dispersal across rivers and seas ; second, because they are

so much more influenced by surrounding circumstances ; and
third, because the species seem to change more quickly, and

therefore disguise a comparatively recent identity. Thus

the insects of adjacent regions, though originally distinct, may

become rapidly amalgamated, or portions of the same region

may come to be inhabited by very distinct insect-faunas

owing to differences of soil, climate, etc. This is strikingly

shown here, where the insect-fauna from Malacca to New

Guinea has a very large amount of characteristic uniformity,

while Australia, from its distinct climate and vegetation,
Ishows a wide difference.
                           am inclined to think, therefore,

that a preliminary study of, first, the mammals, and then the

birds, is indispensable to a correct understanding of the

XXII] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.           375

geographical and physical changes on which the present
insect-distribution depends.1 . . .

    " In a day or two I leave for Timor, where, if I am lucky
in finding a good locality, I expect some fine and interesting

insects."

I reached Delli, the chief place in the Portuguese part of

the island, on January 12, 1861, and stayed there about three

months and a half. I lived with an Englishman, Captain Hart,

who had a coffee plantation about a mile out of the town ;
and there was also another Englishman, Mr. Geach, a mining

engineer, who had come out to open copper mines for the

Portuguese Government, but as no copper ore could be found,

he was waiting for an opportunity to return to Singapore.

They were both very pleasant people, and I enjoyed myself

while there, though the collecting was but poor, owing to the

excessive aridity of the climate and the absence of forests. I

obtained, however, some rare birds and a few very rare and

beautiful butterflies by the side of a stream in a little rocky

valley shaded by a few fine trees and bushes. Of beetles,

however, there were absolutely none worth collecting.

    Leaving Timor at the end of April, I went by the Dutch

mail steamer to Cajeli in Bouru, the last of the Molucca

Islands which I visited. Here I stayed two months, but was

again disappointed, since the country was almost as unpro

ductive as Ceram. For miles round the town there were

only low hills covered with coarse grass and scattered trees,

less productive of insects than a bare moor in England. Some
patches of wood here and there and the fruit trees around

the town produced a few birds of peculiar species. I went to

a place about twenty miles off, where there was some forest,

and remained there most of my time ; but insects were still
Ivery scarce, and birds almost equally so.
                                            obtained, how

ever, about a dozen quite new species of birds and others

which were very rare, together with a small collection of

beetles ; and then, about the end of June, took the mail

   "1 These ideas were thoroughly worked out in my book on The Geographical

Distribution of Animals," published in 1876.

376  MY LIFE                                           [Chap.

steamer by Ternate and Menado to Sourabaya, the chief

town in eastern Java.
     I stayed here about a month, spending most of the time

at the foot of the celebrated mount Arjuna ; but the season
Iwas too dry, and both birds and insects very scarce.
                                                       there

fore went on to Batavia and thence to Buitenzorg and to the

Pangerango mountain, over ten thousand feet high. At a

station about four thousand feet above sea-level, where the

main road passes through some virgin forest, I stayed some

weeks, and made a tolerable collection of birds and butterflies,

though the season was here as much too wet as East Java

was too dry. I next went to Palembang in Sumatra, which

II reached by way of Banka on November 8. Here the

country was mostly flooded, and had to go up the river

some distance to where a military road starts for the interior

and across the mountains to Bencoolen. On this road, about

seventy miles from Palembang, I came to a place called Lobo

Raman, surrounded with some fine virgin forest and near

the centre of East Sumatra. Here, and at another station on

the road, I stayed about a month, and obtained a few very

interesting birds and butterflies ; but it was the height of the

wet season, and all insects were scarce. I therefore returned

to Palembang and Banka, and thence to Singapore, on my

way home. While waiting here for the mail steamer, two
living specimens of the smaller paradise bird {Paradisea

papuana) were brought to Singapore by a trader, and I went

to see them. They were in a large cage about five or six

feet square, and seemed in good health, but the price asked

for them was enormous, as they are so seldom brought, and

the rich Chinese merchants or rich natives in Calcutta are

always ready to purchase them. As they had never been

seen alive in Europe I determined to take the risk and at

once secured them, and with some difficulty succeeded in

bringing them home in safety, where they lived in the

Zoological Gardens for one and two years respectively.

    While living in the wilds of Sumatra I wrote two letters,
to my friends Bates and Silk, which, being the last I wrote

before reaching home, may be of interest as showing what

  xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.               377

subjects were then uppermost in my mind. The first from

which I will quote is that to Mr. Bates, and referring to a

paper on the Papilios of the Amazon which he had sent

me I make some remarks on the distribution of animals in
South America, which I do not think I have published

  anywhere.

       "Your paper is in every respect an admirable one, and

proves the necessity of minute and exact observation over

a wide extent of country to enable a man to grapple with

the more difficult groups, unravel their synonymy, and mark

out the limits of the several species and varieties. All this

you have done, and have, besides, established a very interest

ing fact in zoological geography, that of the southern bank

of the lower river having received its fauna from Guayana,

and not from Brazil. There however, another fact, think,
                        it,              a

                          I                    I

                                    is,
  of equal interest and importance which you have barely

  touched upon, and yet think your own materials in this

very paper establish viz. that the river, in great many

cases, limits the range of species or of well-marked varieties.

This fact considered was proved by the imperfect materials
    a

         I
            I
II  brought home, both as regards the Amazon and Rio Negro.'

  In paper read on The Monkeys of the Lower Amazon

  and Rio Negro' showed that the species were often dif
                  it I
  ferent on the opposite sides of the river. Guayana species

  came up to the east bank, Columbian species to the west

  bank, and stated that    was therefore important that
    it                     it
  travellers collecting on the banks of large rivers should note
          '                        Ia
  from which side every specimen came. Upon this Dr.
         II
  Gray came down upon me with regular floorer. 'Why,'

  said he, we have specimens collected by Mr. Wallace him
  self marked " Rio Negro " only.'
                                         do not think answered
                                         II
  him properly at the time, that those specimens were sent from
                                                       I
  Barra before had the slightest idea myself that the species

  were different on the two banks. In mammals the fact was

  not so much to be wondered at, but few persons would credit

  that would apply also to birds and winged insects. Yet

    am convinced        does, and only regret that had not
                           I

  collected and studied birds there with the same assiduity as

378  MY LIFE                                                                                  [Chap.

have here, as I.am sure they would furnish some most interest
ing results. Now, it seems to me that a person having no
special knowledge of the district would have no idea from

your paper that the species did not in almost every instance

occur on both banks of the river. In only one case do you

specially mention a species being found only on the north

bank. In other cases, except where the insect is local and
confined to one small district, no one can tell whether they
occur on one or both banks. Obydos you only mention once,

Barra and the Tunantins not at all. I think a list of the

species or varieties occurring on the south bank or north

bank only should have been given, and would be of much

interest as establishing the fact that large rivers do act
as limits in determining the range of species. From the
localities you give, it appears that of the sixteen species of

papilio peculiar to the Amazon, fourteen occur only on the
south bank ; also, that the Guayana species all pass to the

south bank. These facts I have picked out. They are not
stated by you. It would seem, therefore, that Guayana

forms, having once crossed the river, have a great tendency

to become modified, and then never recross. Why the

Brazilian species should not first have taken possession of

their own side of the river is a mystery. I should be

inclined to think that the present river bed is comparatively

new, and that the southern lowlands were once continuous

with Guayana ; in fact, that Guayana is older than north
Brazil, and that after it had pushed out its alluvial plains

into what is now north Brazil, an elevation on the Brazilian
side made the river cut a new channel to the northward,

leaving the Guayana species isolated, exposed to competition
with a new set of species from further south, and so becom
ing modified, as we now find them. . . . The whole district

      fear, too little known geologically to test this supposition.
The mountains of north Brazil are, however, said to be of the

cretaceous period, and so their elevation must have occurred

in tertiary times, and may have continued to comparatively
recent period. Now there are no proofs of such recent
upheaval in the southern mountains of Guayana, the theory
iIs,

                             if if

                                                                                           a

xxii] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.             379

would thus far receive support. I regret that your time was

not more equally divided between the north and south banks,

but I suppose you found the south so much more productive

in new and fine things. . . .

    " I am here making what I intend to be my last collections,

but am doing very little in insects, as it is the wet season and
Iall seems dead.
                  find in those districts where the seasons

are strongly contrasted the good collecting time is very
limited-- only about a month or two at the beginning of the

dry, and a few weeks at the commencement of the rains. It
is now two years since I have been; able to get any beetles,
owing to bad localities and bad weather, so I am becoming
disgusted. When I do find a good place it is generally very
good, but such are dreadfully scarce. In Java I had to go

forty miles in the eastern part and sixty miles in the western
to reach a bit of forest, and then I got scarcely anything.

Here I had to come a hundred miles inland, by Palembang,

and though in the very centre of Eastern Sumatra, the forest

is only in patches, and it is the height of the rains, so I get
nothing. A longicorn is a rarity, and I suppose I shall not
have as many species in two months as I have obtained in
three or four days in a really good locality. I am getting,

however, some sweet little blue butterflies (Lyccenidce), which

is the only thing that keeps up my spirits."

     The letter to my friend Silk will be, perhaps, a little more
amusing, and perhaps not less instructive.

                                     " Lobo Roman, Sumatra, December 22, 1861.

    " My dear George,

               " Between eight and nine years ago, when we were
concocting that absurd book, 'Travels on the Amazon and
Rio Negro,' you gave me this identical piece of waste paper
with sundry others, and now having scribbled away my last
sheet of 'hot-pressed writing,' and being just sixty miles

from another, I send you back your gift, with interest ; so

you see that a good action, sooner or later, find its sure

reward.

38o        MY LIFE                               [Chap.

     " I now write you a letter, I hope for the last time, for I

trust our future letters may be viva voce, as an Irishman

would say, while our epistolary correspondence will be con
fined to notes. I really do now think and believe that I am
Icoming home, and as I am quite uncertain when
                                                 may be
able to send you this letter, I may possibly arrive not very
long after it. Some fine morning I expect to walk into 79,
Pall Mall, and shall, I suppose, find things just the same as
if I had walked out yesterday and come in to-morrow I

There will you be seated on the same chair, at the same

table, surrounded by the same account books, and writing

Iupon paper of the same size and colour as when last beheld
you. I shall find your inkstand, pens, and pencils in the

same places, and in the same beautiful order, which my

idiosyncrasy compels me to admire, but forbids me to imitate.

(Could you see the table at which I am now writing, your

hair would stand on end at the reckless confusion it ex
           I suppose you have now
hibits !)                            added    a  few more secretary
ships to   your former multifarious  duties.
                                                 I suppose that you

still walk every morning from Kensington and back in the

evening, and that things at the archdeacon's go on precisely

and identically as they did eight years ago.1 I feel almost

inclined to parody the words of Cicero, and to ask indig
nantly, ' How long, O Georgius, will you thus abuse our

patience? How long will this sublime indifference last?'
But I fear the stern despot, habit, has too strongly riveted

your chains, and as, after many years of torture the Indian

fanatic can at last sleep only on his bed of spikes, so perhaps

now you would hardly care to change that daily routine,

even if the opportunity were thrust upon you. Excuse me,
my dear George, if I express myself too strongly on this
subject, which is truly no business of mine, but I cannot see,

without regret, my earliest friend devote himself so entirely,
mind and body, to the service of others.

    " I am here in one of the places unknown to the Royal

Geographical Society, situated in the very centre of East

    1 Mr. Silk was private secretary and reader to the then Archdeacon Sinclair,
Vicar of Kensington.

XXII] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.  381

I it,Sumatra, about one hundred miles from the sea in three

directions. It is the height of the wet season, and the rainis
                            a
pours down strong and steady, generally all night and half
       it,
the day. Bad times for me, but I walk out regularly three or
four hours every day, picking up what I can, and generally

getting some little new or rare or beautiful thing to reward
me. This is the land of the two-horned rhinoceros, the

elephant, the tiger, and the tapir ; but they all make them

selves very scarce, and beyond their tracks and their dung,

and once hearing a rhinoceros bark not far off, I am not
aware of their existence. This, too, is the very land of

 monkeys ; they swarm about the villages and plantations,

 long-tailed and short-tailed, and with no tail at all, white,

 black, and grey ; they are eternally racing about the tree-tops,
 and gambolling in the most amusing manner. The way they
jump is amazing. They throw themselves recklessly through
 the air, apparently sure, with one or other of their four

 hands, to catch hold of something. I estimated one jump by

 a long-tailed white monkey at thirty feet horizontal, and
 sixty feet vertical, from a high tree on to a lower one ; he

 fell through, however, so great was his impetus, on to a

 lower branch, and then, without a moment's stop, scampered

 away from tree to tree, evidently quite pleased with his own

 pluck. When I startle a band, and one leader takes a leap

 like this, it is amusing to watch the others --some afraid and
 hesitating on the brink till at last they pluck up courage, take

  a run at and often roll over in the air with their desperate

 efforts. Then there are the long-armed apes, who never walk
  or run upon the trees, but travel altogether by their long
  arms, swinging themselves from bough to bough in the
  easiest and most graceful manner possible.

       " But must leave the monkeys and turn to the men, who
  will interest you more, though there nothing very remark
  able in them. They are Malays, speaking curious, half-

  unintelligible Malay dialect -- Mohammedans, but retaining
  many pagan customs and superstitions. They are very

  ignorant, very lazy, and live almost absolutely on rice alone,
  thriving upon however, just as the Irish do, or did, upon

382 MY LIFE                                                       [Cha?

potatoes. They were a bad lot a few years ago, but the
Dutch have brought them into order by their admirable

Isystem of supervision and government. By-the-by, hope

you have read Mr. Money's book on Java. It is well worth

Iwhile, and you will see that I had come to the same conclu

sions as to Dutch colonial government from what saw in
Menado. Nothing is worse and more absurd than the sneer
ing prejudiced tone in which almost all English writers speak

of the Dutch government in the East. It never has been

worse than ours has been, and it is now very much better ;

and what is greatly to their credit and not generally known,
they take nearly the same pains to establish order and good
government in those islands and possessions which are an

annual loss to them, as in those which yield them a revenue.

I am convinced that their system is right in principle, and

ours wrong, though, of course, in the practical working there
may and must be defects ; and among the Dutch themselves,

both in Europe and the Indies, there is a strong party

against the present system, but that party consists mostly of

merchants and planters, who want to get the trade and
commerce of the country made free, which in my opinion
would be an act of suicidal madness, and would, moreover,

seriously injure instead of benefiting the natives.
     " Personally, I do not much like the Dutch out here, or the

Dutch officials ; but I cannot help bearing witness to the

excellence of their government of native races, gentle yet

firm, respecting their manners, customs, and prejudices, yet

introducing everywhere European law, order, and industry."

                                  " Singapore, January 20, 1862.

" I cannot write more now. I do not know how long I
                                                             "
shall be here ; perhaps a month.  Then,  ho ! for  England
                                                            !

    When I was at Sarawak in 1855 I engaged a Malay boy
named Ali as a personal servant, and also to help me to

learn the Malay language by the necessity of constant com
munication with him. He was attentive and clean, and
could cook very well. He soon learnt to shoot birds, to skin


MY FAITHFUL MALAY BOY-- ALL 1S55-1862.
                                                \Toface p. 383, VOL. I.

xxil] CELEBES, THE MOLUCCAS, ETC.  383

them properly, and latterly even to put up the skins very

neatly. Of course he was a good boatman, as are all Malays,
and in all the difficulties or dangers of our journeys he was
quite undisturbed and ready to do anything required of him.
He accompanied me through all my travels, sometimes alone,
but more frequently with several others, and was then very

useful in teaching them their duties, as he soon became well

acquainted with my wants and habits. During our residence
at Ternate he married, but his wife lived with her family,
and it made no difference in his accompanying me wherever

I went till we reached Singapore on my way home. On

parting, besides a present in money, I gave him my two

double-barrelled guns and whatever ammunition I had, with

a lot of surplus stores, tools, and sundries, which made him
quite rich. He here, for the first time, adopted European
clothes, which did not suit him nearly so well as his native
dress, and thus clad a friend took a very good photograph of

him. I therefore now present his likeness to my readers as
that of the best native servant I ever had, and the faithful

companion of almost all my journeyings among the islands

of the far East.
     The two birds of paradise which I had purchased gave

me a good deal of trouble and anxiety on my way home. I

had first to make an arrangement for a place to stand the

large cage on deck. A stock of food was required, which
consisted chiefly of bananas ; but to my surprise I found that

they would eat cockroaches greedily, and as these abound on

every ship in the tropics, I hoped to be able to obtain a

good supply. Every evening I went to the storeroom in

the fore part of the ship, where I was allowed to brush the

cockroaches into a biscuit tin. The ship stayed three or

four days at Bombay to discharge and take in cargo, coal,

etc, and all the passengers went to a hotel, so I brought

the birds on shore and stood them in the hotel verandah,
where they were a great attraction to visitors. While staying
 at Bombay a small party of us had the good fortune to visit
 the celebrated cave-temple of Elephanta on a grand festival
 day, when it was crowded with thousands of natives-- men,

3§4  MY LIFE  [Chap. XXII]

 women, and children, in ever-changing crowds, kneeling or
praying before the images or the altars, making gifts to the
gods or the priests, and outside cooking and eating -- a most

characteristic and striking scene.

    The journey to Suez offered no particular incident, and
the birds continued in good health ; as did two or three lories
 I had brought. But with the railway journey to Alexandria
difficulties began. It was in February, and the night was
clear and almost frosty. The railway officials made diffi

culties, and it was only by representing the rarity and value

of the birds that I could have the cage placed in a box-

truck. When we got into the Mediterranean the weather
became suddenly cold, and worse still, I found that the ship

was free from cockroaches. As I thought that animal food
was perhaps necessary to counteract the cold, I felt afraid

for the safety of my charge, and determined to stay a fort
night at Malta in order to reach England a little later, and

also to lay in a store of the necessary food. I accordingly

arranged to break my voyage there, went to a hotel, and

found that I could get unlimited cockroaches at a baker's

close by.

    At Marseilles I again had trouble, but at last succeeded

in getting them placed in a guard's van, with permission to
enter and feed them en route. Passing through France it was

a sharp frost, but they did not seem to suffer ; and when we

reached London I was glad to transfer them into the care of

Mr. Bartlett, who conveyed them to the Zoological Gardens.
     Thus ended my Malayan travels.

  \
  I
 /

Id



A. R. Wallace. 1869.
                             [To face p. 385, Vol. I.

                 CHAPTER XXIII

        LIFE IN LONDON, 1862-1871-- SCIENTIFIC AND
                                 LITERARY WORK

On reaching London in the spring of 1862 I went to live

with my brother-in-law, Mr. Thomas Sims, and my sister
Mrs. Sims, who had a photographic business in Westbourne
Grove. Here, in a large empty room at the top of the house,

I brought together all the collections which I had reserved

for myself and which my agent, Mr. Stevens, had taken care

of for me. I found myself surrounded by a quantity of

packing-cases and store-boxes, the contents of many of which

I had not seen for five or six years, and to the examination

and study of which I looked forward with intense interest.
    From my first arrival in the East I had determined to

keep a complete set of certain groups from every island or

distinct locality which I visited for my own study on my
return home, as I felt sure they would afford me very valuable

materials for working out the geographical distribution of
animals in the archipelago, and also throw light on various
other problems. These various sets of specimens were sent
home regularly with the duplicates for sale, but either packed
separately or so distinctly marked " Private " that they could
be easily put aside till my return home. The groups thus
reserved were the birds, butterflies, beetles, and land-shells,
and they amounted roughly to about three thousand bird
skins of about a thousand species, and, perhaps, twenty
thousand beetles and butterflies of about seven thousand

species.
       VOL. I. 38S 2 C

386 MY LIFE [Chap.

    As I reached home in a very weak state of health, and

could not work long at a time without rest, my first step

 was to purchase the largest and most comfortable easy-chair

I could find in the neighbourhood, and then engage a

carpenter to fit up one side of the room with movable deal
shelves, and to make a long deal table, supported on trestles,

on which I could unpack and assort my specimens. In order
to classify and preserve my bird skins I obtained from a

 manufacturer about a gross of cardboard boxes of three sizes,
which, when duly labelled with the name of the genus or

 family, and arranged in proper order upon the shelves,

enabled me to find any species without difficulty. For the
next month I was fully occupied in the unpacking and
arranging of my collections, while I usually attended the

evening meetings of the Zoological, Entomological, and

Linnean Societies, where I met many old friends and made

several new ones, and greatly enjoyed the society of people

interested in the subjects that now had almost become the
business of my life.

    As soon as I began to study my birds I had to pay

frequent visits to the bird-room of the British Museum, then
in charge of Mr. George Robert Gray, who had described

many of my discoveries as I sent them home, and also to the

library of the Zoological Society to consult the works of the
older ornithologists. In this way the time passed rapidly, and

I became so interested in my various occupations, and saw

so many opportunities for useful and instructive papers on

various groups of my birds and insects, that I came to the

conclusion to devote myself for some years to this work, and

to put off the writing of a book on my travels till I could

embody in it all the more generally interesting results derived
from the detailed study of certain portions of my collections.
This delay turned out very well, as I was thereby enabled
to make my book not merely the journal of a traveller, but
also a fairly complete sketch of the whole of the great
Malayan Archipelago from the point of view of the philo
sophic naturalist. The result has been that it long continued
to be the most popular of my books, and that even now,

XXIII]  LIFE IN LONDON  387

thirty-six years after its publication, its sale is equal to that

of any of the others.

     Having, as already described, brought home two living
birds of paradise, which were attracting much notice at the

Zoological Gardens, I thought it would be of interest to the

Fellows of the Society to give an outline of my various
journeys in search of these wonderful birds, and of the

reasons why I was, comparatively speaking, so unsuccessful.
This was the first paper I wrote after my return, and I read

it to the society on May 11. As it gives an account of

how I pursued this special object, and summarizes a number

of voyages, the description of which occupies six or seven
chapters of my "Malay Archipelago," and as it is not

accessible to' general readers, I give the larger portion of it

here.

  NARRATIVE OF SEARCH AFTER BIRDS OF PARADISE.

     Having visited most of the islands inhabited by the paradise birds, in
the hope of obtaining good specimens of many of the species, and some
knowledge of their habits and distribution, I have thought that an outline
of my several voyages, with the causes that have led to their only partial
success, might not prove uninteresting.

     At the close of the year 1856, being then at Macassar, in the island of
Celebes, I was introduced to the master of a prau trading to the Aru
Islands, who assured me that two sorts of birds of paradise were abun
dant there-- the large yellow and the small red kinds-- the Paradisea
apoda and P. regia of naturalists.

     He seemed to think there was no doubt but I could obtain them either
by purchase from the natives or by shooting them myself. Thus encou
raged, I agreed with him for a passage there and back (his stay being
six months), and made all my preparations to start by the middle of

December.
     Our vessel was a Malay prau of about 100 tons burthen, but differing

widely from anything to be seen in European waters. The deck sloped
downwards towards the bows, the two rudders were hung by rattans and

ropes on the quarters, the masts were triangles standing on the decks,
and the huge mat sail, considerably longer than the vessel, with its yard
of bamboos, rose upwards at a great angle, so as to make up for the low-

ness of the mast. In this strange vessel, which, under very favourable

circumstances, plunged along at nearly five miles an hour, and with a
Buginese crew, all of whom seemed to have a voice in cases of difficulty

388  MY LIFE  [Chap.

or danger, we made the voyage of about a thousand miles in perfect
safety, and very agreeably ; in fact, of all the sea voyages I have made,
this was one of the pleasantest.

    On reaching the Bugis trading settlement of Dobbo, I found that the

small island on which it is situated does not contain any paradise birds.
Just as I was trying to arrange a trip to the larger island, a fleet of Magin-
dano pirates made their appearance, committing great devastations, and

putting the whole place in an uproar ; and it was only after they had

been some time gone that confidence began to be restored, and the
natives could be persuaded to take the smallest voyage. This delayed
me two months in Dobbo without seeing a paradise bird.

    When, however, I at length reached the main island and ascended a

small stream to a native village, I soon obtained a specimen of the lovely

king bird of paradise, which, when first brought me, excited greater
admiration and delight than I have experienced on any similar occasion.

The larger species was still not to be seen, and the natives assured me

that it would be some months before their plumage arrived at perfection,

when they were accustomed to congregate together and could be more
easily obtained. This proved to be correct, for it was about four months
after my arrival at Dobbo that I obtained my first full-plumaged specimen
of the great paradise bird. This was near the centre of the large island
of Aru ; and there, with the assistance of the natives, I procured the fine
series which first arrived in England.

     While at Dobbo I had frequent conversations with the Bugis traders
and with the Rajah of Goram, who all assured me that in the northern
parts of New Guinea I could travel with safety, and that at Mysol, Wai-
giou, Salwatty, and Dorey I could get all the different sorts of Paradises.
Their accounts excited me so much that I could think of nothing else ;

and after another excursion in Celebes I made my way to Ternate, as the

best headquarters for the Moluccas and New Guinea. Finding a schooner
about to sail on its annual trading voyage to the north coast of New
Guinea, I agreed for a passage to Dorey, and to be called for on the

return of the vessel after an interval of three or four months. We arrived

there, after a tedious voyage, in April, 1858, and I began my second

search after the birds of paradise.
     I went to Dorey in full confidence of success, and thought myself

extremely fortunate in being able to visit that particular locality ; for it
was there that Lesson, in the French discovery ship Coquille, purchased
from the natives the skins of at least eight spec ss, viz. Paradisea papuana,
with regia, magnifica, superba, and sexsetacea, Astrapia nigra, Epima-
chus magnus, and Sericulus aureus. Here was a prospect for me ! The
very anticipation of it made me thrill with expectation.

     My disappointment, therefore, may be imagined when, shortly after my
arrival, I found all these bright hopes fade away. In vain I inquired for

the native bird-hunters ; none were to be found there ; and the inhabi

tants assured me that not a single bird of paradise of any kind was ever

prepared by the Dorey people, and that only the common yellow one (P.

XXIII]  LIFE IN LONDON  389

papuana) was found in the district This turned out to be the case ; for

I could get nothing but this species sparingly, a few females of the king
bird and one young male of the twelve-wired bird of paradise, a species

Lesson does not mention. Nevertheless, Lesson did undoubtedly obtain
all the birds he names at Dorey ; but the natives are great traders in a
petty way, and are constantly making voyages along the coast and to the
neighbouring islands, where they purchase birds of paradise and sell
them again to the Bugis praus, Molucca traders, and whale-ships which

 annually visit Dorey harbour. Lesson must have been there at a good
 time, when there happened to be an accumulation 'of bird-skins ; I, at a
 bad one, for I could not buy a single rare bird all the time I was there.

 I also suffered much by the visit of a Dutch surveying steamer, which, for

 want of coals, lay in Dorey harbour for a month ; and during that time
 I got nothing from the natives, every specimen being taken on board the
 steamer, where the commonest birds and insects were bought at high
 prices. During this time two skins of the black paradise bird (Astrapia

 nigra) were brought by a Bugis trader and sold to an amateur ornitho
 logist on board, and I never had another chance of getting a skin of this

 rare and beautiful bird.

       The Dorey people all agreed that Amerbaki, about one hundred miles

  west, was the place for birds of paradise, and that almost all the different

  sorts were to be found there. Determined to make an effort to secure

 them, I sent my two best men with ten natives and a large stock of goods
  to stay there a fortnight, with instructions to shoot and buy all they could.

  They returned, however, with absolutely nothing. They could not buy

  any skins but those of the common P. papuana, and could not find any
  birds but a single specimen of P. regia. They were assured that the birds
  all came from two or three days' journey in the interior, over several
  ridges of mountains, and were never seen near the coast. The coast
  people never go there themselves, nor do the mountaineers, who kill and

  preserve them, ever come to the coast, but sell them to the inhabitants of
  intermediate villages, where the coast people go to buy them. These

  sell them to the Dorey people, or any other native traders ; so that the
  specimens Lesson purchased had already passed through three or four

   hands.

       These disappointments, with a scarcity of food sometimes approaching
  starvation, and almost constant sickness both of myself and men, one of

  whom died of dysentery, made me heartily glad when the schooner re
  turned and took me away from Dorey. I had gone there with the most
  brilliant hopes, which, I think, were fully justified by the facts known before
  my visit ; and yet, as far as my special object (the birds of paradise) was
  concerned, I had accomplished next to nothing.

       My ardour for New Guinea voyages being now somewhat abated, for

  the next year and a half I occupied myself in the Moluccas ; but in

  January, i860, being joined (when at Amboyna) by my assistant, Mr.
   Charles Allen, I arranged a plan for the further exploration of the country
  of the Paradiseas, by sending Mr. Allen to Mysol, while I myself, after

390  MY LIFE  [Chap.

making the circuit of the island of Ceram, was to visit him with stores
and provisions and proceed to Waigiou, both returning independently to
meet at Ternate in the autumn.

     I had been assured by the Goram and Bugis traders that Mysol was
the very best country for the birds of paradise, and that they were finer
and more abundant there than anywhere else. For Waigiou I had,
besides the authority of the native traders, that of Lesson also, who visited
the north coast for a few days, and mentions seven species of paradise
birds purchased there by him.

     These two promising expeditions turned out unfortunately in every

respect. On reaching Goram, after much difficulty and delay, I found it
impossible to make the voyage I had projected without a vessel of my

own. I therefore purchased a small native prau of about eight tons, and
after spending a month in strengthening and fitting it up, and having
with great difficulty secured a native crew, paid them half their wages
in advance, and overcome all the difficulties and objections which every

one of them made to starting when all was ready, we at length got away,
and I congratulated myself on my favourable prospects. Touching at
Ceramlaut, the rendezvous of the New Guinea traders, I invested all

my spare cash in goods for barter with the natives, and then proceeded

towards Mysol.
     The very next day, however, being obliged to anchor on the east

coast of Ceram on account of bad weather, my crew all ran away during
the night, leaving myself and my two Amboyna hunters to get on as we

could. With great difficulty I procured other men to take us as far as
Wahai, on the north coast of Ceram, opposite to Mysol, and there by a
great chance succeeded in picking up a make-shift crew of four men
willing to go with me to Mysol, Waigiou, and Ternate. I here found a
letter from Mr. Allen, telling me he was much in want of rice and other
necessaries, and was waiting my arrival to go to the north coast of Mysol,
where alone the Paradisea; could be obtained.

     On attempting to cross the strait, seventy miles wide, between Ceram
and Mysol, a strong east wind blew us out of our course, so that we
passed to the westward of that island without any possibility of getting
back to it. Mr. Allen, finding it impossible to live without rice, had to
return to Wahai, much against his will, and there was kept two months
waiting a supply from Amboyna. When at length he was able to return
to Mysol, he had only a fortnight at the best place on the north coast,
when the last boat of the season left, and he was obliged to take his only

chance of getting back to Ternate.
     Through this unfortunate series of accidents he was only able to get a

single specimen of P. papuana, which is there finer than in most other
places, a few of the Cicinnurus regius, and of P. magnifica only a native

skin, though this beautiful little species is not rare in the island, and

during a longer stay might easily have been obtained.
     My own voyage was beset with misfortunes. After passing Mysol, I

lost two of my scanty crew on a little desert island, our anchor breaking

XXIII]  LIFE IN LONDON                                            39i

while they were on shore, and a powerful current carrying us rapidly

away. One of them was our pilot ; and, without a chart or any know

ledge of the coasts, we had to blunder our way short-handed among the

rocks and reefs and innumerable islands which surround the rocky coasts

of Waigiou. Our little vessel was five times on the rocks in the space of

twenty-four hours, and a little more wind or sea would in several cases

have caused our destruction. On at length reaching our resting-place on
the south coast of Waigiou, I immediately sent a native boat after my

lost sailors, which, however, returned in a week without them, owing to

bad weather. Again they were induced to make the attempt, and this

time returned with them in a very weak and emaciated condition, as they

had lived a month on a mere sand-bank, about a mile in diameter,

subsisting on shell-fish and the succulent shoots of a wild plant.

    I now devoted myself to an investigation of the natural history of

Waigiou, having great expectations raised by Lesson's account, who says

that he purchased the three true Paradiseas, as well as P. magnifica and

P. sexsetacea, with Epimachus magnus and Sericulus aureus, in the

island, and also mentions several rare Psittaci as probably found there.
I soon ascertained, however, from the universal testimony of the inhabi

tants, afterwards confirmed by my own observation, that none of these

species exist on the island, except P. rubra, which is the sole representa

tive of the two families, Paradiseidae and Epimachidae, and is strictly

limited to this one spot.                                         and
    With more than the usual amount of difficulties, privations,  and

hunger, I succeeded in obtaining a good series of this beautiful

extraordinary bird ; and three months' assiduous collecting produced no

other species at all worthy of attention. The parrots and pigeons were

all of known species ; and there was really nothing in the island to

render it worth visiting by a naturalist, except the P. rubra, which can be

obtained nowhere else.

Our two expeditions to two almost unknown Papuan islands have thus

added but one species to the Paradiseas which I had before obtained from
Aru and Dorey. These voyages occupied us nearly a year ; for we parted

company in Amboyna in February, and met again at Ternate in Novem

ber, and it was not till the following January that we were either of us

able to start again on a fresh voyage.

    At Waigiou I learned that the birds of paradise all came from three

places on the north coast, between Salwatty and Dorey -- Sorong, Maas,
and Amberbaki. The latter I had tried unsuccessfully from Dorey ; at

Maas, the natives who procured the birds were said to live three days'

journey in the interior, and to be cannibals ; but at Sorong, which was

near Salwatty, they were only about a day from the coast, and were less

dangerous to visit. At Mysol, Mr. Allen had received somewhat similar

information ; and we therefore resolved that he should make another

attempt at Sorong, where we were assured all the sorts could be obtained.

The whole of that country being under the jurisdiction of the Sultan of
Tidore, I obtained, through the Dutch resident at Ternate, a Tidore

392  MY LIFE  [Chap.

 lieutenant and two soldiers to accompany Mr. Allen as a protection, and

 to facilitate his operations in getting men and visiting the interior.
      Notwithstanding these precautions, Mr. Allen met with difficulties in

 this voyage which we had not encountered before. To understand these,
it is necessary to consider that the birds of paradise are an article of
commerce, and are the monopoly of the chiefs of the coast villages, who
 obtain them at a low rate from the mountaineers, and sell them to the
 Bugis traders. A portion of the skins is also paid every year as tribute
to the Sultan of Tidore. The natives are therefore very jealous of a
stranger, especially a European, interfering in their trade, and above
all of his going into the interior to deal with the mountaineers them
selves. They, of course, think he will raise the prices in the interior,

 and lessen the demand on the coast, greatly to their disadvantage ; they
also think their tribute will be raised if a European takes back a
quantity of the rare sorts ; and they have, besides, a vague and very
natural dread of some ulterior object in a white man's coming at so
much trouble and expense to their country only to get birds of para
dise, of which they know he can buy plenty at Ternate, Macassar, or

 Singapore.

     It thus happened that when Mr. Allen arrived at Sorong and ex
plained his intentions of going to seek birds of paradise in the interior,
innumerable objections were raised. He was told it was three or four

days' journey over swamps and mountains ; that the mountaineers were
savages and cannibals, who would certainly kill him ; and, lastly, that
not a man in the village could be found who dare go with him. After

some days spent in these discussions, as he still persisted in making the
attempt, and showed them his authority from the Sultan of Tidore to go

where he pleased and receive every assistance, they at length provided
him with a boat to go the first part of the journey up a river ; at the same
time, however, they sent private orders to the interior villages to refuse
to sell any provisions, so as to compel him to return. On arriving at the
village where they were to leave the river and strike inland, the coast
people returned, leaving Mr. Allen to get on as he could. Here he called
on the Tidore lieutenant to assist him, and procure men as guides and to
carry his baggage to the villages of the mountaineers. This, however,

was not so easily done ; a quarrel took place, and the natives, refusing to
obey the somewhat harsh orders of the lieutenant, got out their knives
and spears to attack him and his soldiers, and Mr. Allen himself was

obliged to interfere to protect those who had come to guard him. The

respect due to a white man and the timely distribution of a few presents

prevailed ; and on showing the knives, hatchets, and beads he was

willing to give to those who accompanied him, peace was restored, and

the next day, travelling over a frightfully rugged country, they reached
the villages of the mountaineers. Here Mr. Allen remained a month,

without any interpreter through whom he could understand a word or

communicate a want. However, by signs and presents and a pretty
liberal barter, he got on very well, some of them accompanying him every

XXIII]       LIFE IN LONDON                                                       393

day in the forest to shoot and receiving a small present when he was

successful.

      In the grand matter of the paradise birds, however, little was done.
Only one additional species was found, the Seleucides alba (or twelve-
wired bird of paradise), of which he had already obtained a specimen on
the island of Salwatty on his way to Sorong ; so that at this much-

vaunted place in the mountains, and among the bird-catching natives,

nothing fresh was obtained. The P. magnifica, they said, was found

there, but was rare ; the Sericulus aureus also rare ; Epimachus magnus,

Astrapia nigra, Parotia sexsetacea, and Lophorina superba not found

there, but only much further in the interior, as well as the lovely little
lory, Charmosyna papuana. Moreover, neither at Sorong nor at Salwatty

could he obtain a single native skin of the rarer species.

     Thus ended my search after these beautiful birds. Five voyages to

different parts of the district they inhabit, each occupying in its prepara
tion and execution the larger part of a year, have produced me only five

species out of the thirteen known to exist in New Guinea. The kinds

obtained are those that inhabit the districts near the coasts of New

Guinea and its islands, the remainder seeming to be strictly confined to

the central mountain ranges of the northern peninsula; and our researches

at Dorey and Amberbaki, near one end of this peninsula, and at Salwatty

and Sorong, near the other, enable me to decide with some certainty on

the native country of these rare and lovely birds, good specimens of
which have never yet been seen in Europe. It must be considered as

somewhat extraordinary that during five years' residence and travel in

Celebes, the Moluccas, and New Guinea I should never have been able

to purchase skins of half the species which Lesson, forty years ago,
obtained during a few weeks in the same countries. I believe that all,

except the common species of commerce, are now much more difficult to

obtain than they were even twenty years ago ; and I impute it principally

to their having been sought after by the Dutch officials through the

Sultan of Tidore. The chiefs of the annual expeditions to collect tribute

have had orders to get all the rare sorts of paradise birds ; and as they

pay little or nothing for them being sufficient to say they are for the
a

  I
          II a

                                                     (it

                                                                               I
Sultan), the head men of the coast villages would for the future refuse to

purchase them from the mountaineers, and confine themselves instead to

the commoner species, which are less sought after by amateurs, but are

to them profitable merchandise.  The same causes frequently lead the

inhabitants of uncivilized countries to conceal any minerals or other

natural products with which they may become acquainted, from the fear

of being obliged to pay increased tribute, or of bringing upon themselves

new and oppressive labour.

have given this short sketch of my search after the birds of para

dise, barely touching on the many difficulties and dangers experienced,

because fear that the somewhat scanty results of my exertions may

have led to the opinion that they failed for want of judgment or perse

verance.     trust, however, that the mere enumeration of my voyages

394  MY LIFE  fCHAP.

will show that patience and perseverance were not altogether wanting ;
but I must plead guilty to having been misled, first by Lesson and then
by all the native traders, it never having occurred to me (and I think it
could not have occurred to any one), that in scarcely a single instance
would the birds be found to inhabit the districts in which they are most
frequently to be purchased. Yet such is the case ; for neither at Dorey,
nor at Salwatty, nor Waigiou, nor Mysol are any of the rarer species to
be found alive. Not only this, but even at Sorong, where the Waigiou
chiefs go every year and purchase all kinds of birds of paradise, it has
turned out that most of the specimens are brought from the central

mountain ranges by the natives, and reach the shore in places where it is
not safe for trading praus to go, owing to the want of anchorage on an
exposed rocky coast.

     Nature seems to have taken every precaution that these, her choicest

treasures, may not lose value by being too easily obtained. First, we find
an open, harbourless, inhospitable coast, exposed to the full swell of the
Pacific Ocean ; next, a rugged and mountainous country, covered with

dense forests, offering in its swamps and precipices and serrated ridges

an almost impassable barrier to the central regions ; and lastly, a race of

the most savage and ruthless character, in the very lowest stage of

civilization. In such a country and among such a people are found
these wonderful productions of nature. In those trackless wilds do they

display that exquisite beauty and that marvellous development of
plumage, calculated to excite admiration and astonishment among the
most civilized and most intellectual races of men. A feather is itself a
wonderful and a beautiful thing. A bird clothed with feathers is almost
necessarily a beautiful creature. How much, then, must we wonder at and
admire the modification of simple feathers into the rigid, polished, wavy
ribbons which adorn Paradisea rubra, the mass of airy plumes on P. apoda,

the tufts and Vires of Seleucides alba, or the golden buds borne upon
airy stems that spring from the tail of Cicinnurus regius ; while gems and
polished metals can alone compare with the tints that adorn the breast
of Parotia sexsetacea and Astrapia nigra, and the immensely developed
shoulder-plumes of Epimachus magnus.

    My next work was to describe five new birds from New
Guinea obtained by my assistant, Mr. Allen, during his

last visit there, and also seven new species obtained during

his visit to the north of Gilolo and Morty Island. I also

described three new species of the beautiful genus Pitta,

commonly called ground-thrushes, but more nearly allied to

the South American ant-thrushes (Formicariidas), or perhaps

to the Australian lyre-birds. I also began a series of papers

dealing with the birds of certain islands or groups of islands
for the purpose of elucidating the geographical distribution

xxnI]  LIFE IN LONDON      395

of animals in the archipelago. The first of these was a list of
the birds from the Sula or Xulla Islands, situated between

Celebes and the Moluccas, but by their position seeming to

belong more to the latter. I believe that not a single species
of bird was known from these small islands, and I should
probably not have thought them worth visiting had I not

been assured by native traders that a very pretty little

parrot was found there and nowhere else. I therefore sent
Mr. Allen there for two months, and he obtained a small but

very interesting collection, consisting of forty-eight species of
birds, of which seven were entirely new, including the little

parrakeet which I named Loriculus sclateri, and which is one

of the most beautiful of the genus. But the most interesting
feature of the collection was that it proved indisputably that

these islands, though nearer to Bouru and the Batchian
group than to Celebes, really formed outlying portions of the
latter island, since no less than twenty of the species were
found also in Celebes and only ten in the Moluccas, while of

the new species five were closely allied to Celebesian types,
while only two were nearest to Molluccan species. This very
curious and interesting result has led other naturalists to visit
these islands as well as all the other small islands which
cluster around the strangely formed large island. The result
has been that considerable numbers of new species have been
discovered, while the intimate connection of these islands with

Celebes, so clearly shown by this first small collection, has

been powerfully enforced.

    During the succeeding five years I continued the study of

my collections, writing many papers, of which more than a
dozen related to birds, some being of considerable length and

involving months of continuous study. But I also wrote

several on physical and zoological geography, six on various
questions of anthropology, and five or six on special applica

tions of the theory of natural selection. I also began work
ing at my insect collections, on which I wrote four rather

elaborate papers. As several of these papers discussed matters
of considerable interest and novelty, I will here give a brief

396                     MY LIFE                            [Chaf.

summary of the more important of them in the order in

which they were written.

    The first of these, read in January, 1863, at a meeting of

the Zoological Society, was on my birds from Bouru, and was
chiefly important as showing that this island was undoubtedly
one of the Moluccan group, every bird found there which was
not widely distributed being either identical with or closely
allied to Moluccan species, while none had special affinities

with Celebes. It was clear, then, that this island formed the

most westerly outlier of the Moluccan group.
    My next paper of importance, read before the same society

in the following November, was on the birds of the chain of
islands extending from Lombok to the great island of Timor.

I gave a list of one hundred and eighty-six species of birds,

of which twenty-nine were altogether new ; but the special
importance of the paper was that it enabled me to mark out
precisely the boundary line between the Indian and Australian
zoological regions, and to trace the derivation of the rather
peculiar fauna of these islands, partly from Australia and

partly from the Moluccas, but with a strong recent migration
of Javanese species due to the very narrow straits separating
most of the islands from each other. The following table will
serve to illustrate this :--

     Species derived from Java ...       Lombok.  Flores.  Timor.
     Species derived from Australia                 28        17
                                     ... 34
                                     ... 7         i4

This table shows how two streams of immigration have

entered these islands, the one from Java diminishing in
intensity as it passed on farther and farther to Timor; the

other from Australia entering Timor and diminishing still

more rapidly towards Lombok. This indicates, as its

geological structure shows, that Timor is the older island and

that it received immigrants from Australia at a period when,

probably, Lombok and Flores had not come into existence

or were uninhabitable. This is also indicated by the fact that

the Australian immigrants have undergone greater modifica
Iftion than the Javan.
                        we compare the birds of the whole

XXIII]  LIFE IN LONDON                                          397

chain of islands according as they are of Javan or Australian
origin, we have the following results :--

Javan species                 36  Australian species  ... 13
Javan allied species
                      ... 11      Australian allied species 35

                              47                      48

We thus see that while the proportion of the birds derived
from each source is almost exactly equal, about three-fourths
of those from Java have remained unchanged, while three-
fourths of those from Australia have become so modified as
to be very distinct species. This shows us how the distribu
tion of birds can, when carefully studied, give us information
as to the past history of the earth.

     We can also feel confident that Timor has not been
actually connected with Australia, because it has none of the
peculiar Australian mammalia, and also because many of the
commonest and most widespread groups of Australian birds
are entirely wanting. And we are equally certain that

Lombok and the islands further east have never been united
to Bali and Java, because four Australian or papuan genera
of parrots and cockatoos are found in them, but not in Java,
as are several species of honeysuckers (Meliphagidae), a
family of birds confined to the Australian region. On the
other hand, a large number of genera which extend over the
whole of the true Malay islands, from Sumatra to Java, never
pass the narrow straits into Lombok. Among these are the
long-tail parrakeets (Palaeornis), the barbets (Megalaemidae),

the weaver-birds (Ploceus), the ground starlings (Sturno-
pastor), several genera of woodpeckers, and an immense
number of genera of flycatchers, tits, gapers, bulbuls, and

other perching birds which abound everywhere in Borneo

and Java.

     Two other papers dealt with the parrots and the pigeons
of the whole archipelago, and are among the most important
of my studies of geographical distribution. That on parrots
was written in 1864, and read at a meeting of the Zoological

398  MY LIFE  [Chap.

 Society in June. Although the Malay Archipelago as a
 whole is one of the richest countries in varied forms of the

 parrot tribe, that richness is almost wholly confined to its
 eastern or Australian portion, for while there are about
 seventy species between Celebes and the Solomon Islands,

 there are only five in the three large islands, Java, Borneo, and
 Sumatra, together with the Malay peninsula, while the
 Philippine Islands have twelve. This extreme richness of
 the Moluccas and New Guinea is also characteristic of the
 Pacific Islands and Australia, so that the Australian region,
 with its comparatively small area of land, contains nearly as
 many species of this tribe of birds as the rest of the globe,
 and considerably more than the vast area of tropical
 America, the next richest of all the regions.

      No two groups of birds can well be more unlike in struc

 ture, form, and habits than parrots and pigeons, yet we find
that the main features of the distribution of the former, as

just described, are found also, though in a less marked degree,
in the latter. The Australian region by itself contains three-
fourths as many pigeons as the whole of the rest of the globe ;
tropical America, the next richest, having only about half
the number ; while tropical Africa and Asia are as poor, com

paratively, in this group as they are in parrots. Turning
now to our special subject, the Malay Archipelago, we find

that it contains about one hundred and twenty species of
pigeons, of which more than two-thirds (about ninety species)
belong to the eastern or Austro-Malayan portion of which

portion thus contains considerably more species, and much

more varied forms and colours, than the whole of South

America, Mexico, and the West Indies, forming the next
richest area on the globe.

     But this not the only feature in which the parrots and
the pigeons resemble each other. Both have characteristic

forms and colours, which prevail generally over the whole

world. In parrots this may be said to be green, varying into

yellow, grey, red, and more rarely blue, and, except for

lengthened tail, having rarely any special developments of

plumage. In pigeons, soft ashy lilac or brown tints are
     is
                                                                                it,

                                                                                                      a

XXIII]  LIFE IN LONDON  399

characteristic of the whole group, often with metallic reflec

tions ; while soft greens, and sometimes metallic greens,
occur in the forest regions of tropical Africa and Asia, but

rarely anything approaching to crests or other developments

of plumage.
     But as soon as we reach the Moluccas and New Guinea

we find a new type of coloration appearing in both groups.
Among the lories we find vivid red and crimson, sometimes
with a remnant of green on the wings and tail, but often

covering the whole plumage, varied with bands or patches

of equally vivid blue or yellow, while the red sometimes
deepens into a blackish-purple. Among the cockatoos we

have pure whites and deep black, with highly developed
crests, often of great beauty, so that in these two families

we seem to depart altogether from the usual parrot type of

coloration.

     Still more remarkably is this the case with the pigeons.
In the extensive genus of small fruit-pigeons (Ptilonopus)
the usual ground colour is a clear soft green, variegated by
blue, purple, or yellow breasts, and crowns of equally brilliant

colours. Besides these, we have larger fruit-pigeons almost

wholly cream white, while the very large ground pigeons
of New Guinea possess flat vertical crests, which are unique
in this order of birds. The wonderfully brilliant golden
green Nicobar pigeon is probably a native of the Austro-
Malayan islands, and may have been carried westward by

Malay traders, and have become naturalized on a few small

islands.
     These peculiarities of distribution and coloration in two

such very diverse groups of birds interested me greatly, and

I endeavoured to explain them in accordance with the laws

of natural selection. In the paper on Pigeons (published

in The Ibis of October, 1865) I suggest that the excessive

development of both these groups in the Moluccas and the
Papuan islands has been due primarily to the total absence
of arboreal, carnivorous, or egg-destroying mammals,
especially of the whole monkey tribe, which in all other

tropical forest regions are exceedingly abundant, and are

400                      MY LIFE                                         [Chat.

very destructive to eggs and young birds. I also point out

that there are here comparatively few other groups of fruit-

eating birds like the extensive families of chatterers, tanagers,

and toucans of America, or the barbets, bulbuls, finches,

starlings, and many other groups of India and Africa, while

in all those countries monkeys, squirrels, and other arboreal

mammals consume enormous quantities of fruits. It is clear,

therefore, that in the Australian region, especially in the

forest-clad portions of                             both parrots and pigeons have
I is
fewer enemies and fewer competitors for food than in other
           I
                Itropical regions, the result being that they have had freer

                               isscope for development in various directions leading to the
                                               it,
production of forms and styles of colouring unknown
elsewhere. It
                  also very suggestive that the only other

country in which black pigeons and black parrots are found

     Madagascar, an island where also there are neither
monkeys nor squirrels, and where arboreal carnivora or fruit-
eating birds are very scarce. The satisfactory solution of

these curious facts of distribution gave me very great

pleasure, and am not aware that the conclusions arrived

at have been seriously objected to.
                                                    a

                                                           I
                                                                      I
     Before had written these two papers had begun the

study of my collection of butterflies, and in March, 1864,
  read before the Linnean Society rather elaborate paper

on " The Malayan Papilionida?, as illustrating the Theory of

Natural Selection." This was published in the Society's

Transactions, vol. xxv., and was illustrated by fine coloured

plates drawn by Professor Westwood.                 I  reprinted the intro

ductory portion of this paper in the first edition of my " Con

tributions to the Theory of Natural Selection" in 1870, but

in later editions was omitted, as being rather too technical
I
                I it
for general readers, and not easily followed without the

coloured plates.      will therefore give short outline of its
                                                    a

purport here.

        may state for the information of non-entomological
readers that the Papilionidae form one of the most extensive

families of butterflies, and from their large size, elegant forms,,

XXIII]   LIFE IN LONDON              401

and splendid colours were considered by all the older

writers to be the princes of the whole lepidopterous order.

They are usually known by the English term "Swallow-

tailed butterflies," because the only British species, as well as

a great many of the tropical forms, have the hind wings

tailed. They are pretty uniformly distributed over all the

warmer regions, but are especially abundant in the tropical

forests, of which they form one of the greatest ornaments.
In coloration they are wonderfully varied. The ground

colour is very frequently black, on which appear bands, spots,
or large patches of brilliant colours -- pale or golden yellow,

rich crimsons or gorgeous metallic blues and greens, which

colours sometimes spread over nearly the whole wing surface.

Some are thickly speckled with golden green dots and

adorned with large patches of intense metallic green or azure

blue, others are simply black and white in a great variety

of patterns many very striking and beautiful, while others

again have crimson or golden patches, which when viewed at

certain angles change to quite different opalescent hues,

unsurpassed by the rarest gems.

But it is not this grand development of size and colour

that constitutes the attraction of these insects to the student
of evolution, but the fact that they exhibit, in a remarkable

degree, almost every kind of variation, as well as some of the

most beautiful examples of polymorphism and of mimicry.

Besides these features, the family presents us with examples of

differences of size, form, and colour, characteristic of certain

localities, which are among the most singular and mysterious

phenomena known to naturalists. A short statement of the

nature of these phenomena will be useful to show the great

interest of the subject.
     In all parts of the world there are certain insects which,

from a disagreeable smell or taste, are rarely attacked or

devoured by enemies. Such groups are said to be "protected,"

and they almost always have distinctive and conspicuous

colours. In the Malay Archipelago there are several groups

of butterflies which have this kind of protection ; and

one group is coloured black, with rich blue glosses and
                                 2D
VOL. I.

- 402      MY LIFE                                      [Chap.

ornamented with white bands or spots. These are excessively

abundant, and, having few enemies, they fly slowly. Now

there are also several different kinds of papilios, which in

colour are so exactly like these, that when on the wing they

cannot be distinguished, although they frequent the same

places and are often found intermingled. Other protected

butterflies are of paler colours with dark stripes, and these

are also closely imitated by other papilios. Altogether there

are about fifteen species which thus closely resemble pro

tected butterflies externally, although in structure and trans

formations they have no affinity with them. In some cases
both sexes possess this resemblance, or " mimicry," as it is

termed, but most frequently it is the female only that is thus

modified, especially when she lays her eggs on low-growing

plants ; while the male, whose flight is stronger and can take

care of himself, does not possess       and often so different
                                     it,
                                                  a is
from his mate as to have been considered distinct species.
     This leads us to the phenomenon of dimorphism and

polymorphism, in which the females of one species present

two or three different forms. Several such cases occur in the

Malay Archipelago, in which there are two distinct kinds of

females, sometimes even three, to single male, which differsa

from either of them. In one case four females are known to

one male, though only two of them appear to occur in one

locality. These have been almost always described as

distinct species, but observation has now proved them to be

one, and has further been noticed that each of the females,
       it

which are very unlike the male, resembles more or less
closely some " protected " species.
                                        has also been proved
                                        It

                                                                                        in
by experimental breeding that eggs laid by any one of these
females are capable of producing butterflies of all the

different forms, which in the few cases recorded are quite

distinct from each other, without intermediate gradations.

       The local diversities of form are illustrated by outline

figures (as regards two species of papilio from Celebes)
my "Malay Archipelago" (p. 216), and similar local pecu
liarities of colour, both in papilio and other groups, are
described in my "Natural Selection and Tropical Nature"

xxni]               LIFE IN LONDON  403

(pp. 384, 385), while extraordinary development of size in
Amboyna is referred to at p. 307 of my " Malay Archipelago."

     This brief outline of the paper will, perhaps, enable my

readers to understand the intense interest I felt in working

out all these strange phenomena, and showing how they
could almost all be explained by that law of " Natural
Selection " which Darwin had discovered many years before,

and which I had also been so fortunate as to hit upon.
    The only other groups of insects upon which I did any

systematic work were the families of Pieridae among butter
flies and Cetoniidae among beetles. Of the former family,

which contains our common whites, our brimstone and orange

tip butterflies, I gave a list of all known from the Indian and

Australian regions, describing fifty new species, mostly from
my own collection. This paper is in the " Transactions of

the Entomological Society for 1867," and is illustrated by four

coloured plates. The other paper, which is contained in the

same volume, is a catalogue of the Cetoniidae (or Rose-
chafers, named after our common species) of the Malay

Archipelago, in which I described seventy new species, the

majority of which were collected by myself, and it is illus

trated by four coloured plates, beautifully executed by the

late Mr. E. W. Robinson, in which thirty-two of the species

are figured. These two papers, filling about 200 pages of the
society's "Transactions," occupied me for several months,

and if I had not had wider and more varied interests--

evolution, distribution, physical geography, anthropology,

the glacial period, geological time, sociology, and several

others --I might have spent the rest of my life upon similar

work, for  which    mdoywonwnintcoolalercetgiounlaraf"fosrpdeecdiesa-mmpolnegemr.a"teriFaolsr,
and thus   settled

even in this humble occupation there is a great fascination ;

constant difficulties are encountered in unravelling the

mistakes of previous describers who have had imperfect
materials, while the detection of those minute differences,

which often serve to distinguish allied species, and the many

curious modifications of structure which characterize genera

or their subdivisions, become intensely interesting, especially

404  MY LIFE  [Chap.

when, after weeks of study, a whole series of specimens,
which seemed at first hardly distinguishable, are gradually
separated into well-defined species, and order arises out of

chaos.

     The series of papers on birds and insects now described,
together with others on the physical geography of the archi
pelago and its various races of man, furnished me with the
necessary materials for that general sketch of the natural
history of the islands and of the various interesting problems
which arise from its study, which has made my "Malay

Archipelago " the most popular of my books. At the same

time it opened up so many fields of research as to render me

 indisposed for further technical work in the mere description

of my collections, which I should certainly never have been
 able to complete. I therefore now began to dispose of

 various portions of my insects to students of special groups,
 who undertook to publish lists of them with descriptions of

 the new species, reserving for myself only a few boxes of
 duplicates to serve as mementoes of the exquisite or fantastic

 organisms which I had procured during my eight years'

 wanderings.
      In order that my scientific friends might be able to see the

 chief treasures which I had brought home, I displayed a

 series of the rarest and most beautiful of my birds and butter
 flies in Mr. Sims's large photographic gallery in the same

 manner as I had found so effective with my New Guinea

 collections at Ternate. The entire series of my parrots,

 pigeons, and paradise birds, when laid out on long tables
 covered with white paper, formed a display of brilliant

  colours, strange forms, and exquisite texture that could hardly

  be surpassed ; and when to these were added the most curious

  and beautiful among the warblers, flycatchers, drongos, star

  lings, gapers, ground thrushes, woodpeckers, barbets, cuckoos,

  trogons, kingfishers, hornbills, and pheasants, the general
 effect of the whole, and the impression it gave of the

 inexhaustible variety and beauty of nature in her richest
 treasure houses, was far superior to that of any collection of

 stuffed and mounted birds I have ever seen.

XXIII]  LIFE IN LONDON  405

     This mode of exhibiting bird skins is especially suitable

for artificial light, and I believe that if a portion of the

enormous wealth of the national collection in unmounted

bird skins were used for evening display in the public
galleries, it would be exceedingly attractive. Different
regions or subregions might be illustrated by showing
specimens of all the most distinct and remarkable species

that characterize them, and each month during the winter a
fresh series might be shown, and thus all parts of the world

in turn represented. And in the case of insects the per

manent series shown in the public galleries might be thus
arranged, those of each region or of the well-marked sub-
regions being kept quite separate. This would be not only
more instructive, but very much more interesting, because
such large numbers of persons have now visited or resided
in various foreign countries, and a still larger number have
friends or relatives living abroad, and all these would be
especially interested in seeing the butterflies, beetles, and
birds which are found there. In this way it would be possible

to supply the great want in all public museums--a geogra

phical rather than a purely systematic arrangement for the
bulk of the collections exhibited to the public. The syste

matic portion so exhibited might be limited to the most
distinctive types of organization, and these might be given

in a moderate-sized room.

     Having thus prepared the way by these preliminary
studies, I devoted the larger portion of my time in the years

1867 and 1868 to writing my "Malay Archipelago." I had
previously read what works I could procure on the islands,

and had made numerous extracts from the old voyagers on

the parts I myself was acquainted with. These added much

to the interest of my own accounts of the manners and
character of the people, and by means of a tolerably full

journal and the various papers I had written, I had no

difficulty in going steadily on with my work. As my

publishers wished the book to be well illustrated, I had to

spend a good deal of time in deciding on the plates and

406       MY LIFE                                    [Cha?.

getting them drawn, either from my own sketches, from

photographs, or from actual specimens, and having obtained

Ithe services of the best artists and wood engravers then in
London, the result was, on the whole, satisfactory.  would

particularly indicate the frontispiece by Wolf as a most

artistic and spirited picture, while the two plates of beetles

by Robinson, the "twelve-wired" and "king" birds of

paradise by Keulemaus, and the head of the black cockatoo

by Wood, are admirable specimens of life-like drawing and

fine wood engraving. I was especially indebted to Mr. T.

Baines, the well-known African traveller, and the first artist

to depict the Victoria Falls and numerous scenes of Kaffir

life, for the skill with which he has infused life and movement
into an outline sketch of my own, of " Dobbo in the Trading

Season."

     The book was published in 1869, but during its progress,

and while it was slowly passing through the press, I wrote

several important papers, among which was one in the
Quarterly Review for April, 1889, on "Geological Climates
and the Origin of Species," which was in large part a review
and eulogy of Sir Charles Lyell's great work, " The Principles
of Geology," which greatly pleased him as well as Darwin.

A considerable part of this article was devoted to a discussion

of Mr. Croll's explanation of the glacial epoch, and, by a
combination of his views with those of Lyell on the great
effect of changed distribution of sea and land, or of differences

in altitude, I showed how we might arrive at a better explana

tion than either view by itself could give us. As the article
was too long, a good deal of it had to be cut out, but it served
as the foundation for my more detailed examination of the
whole question when writing my " Island Life," twelve years

later.

    As soon as the proofs of the " Malay Archipelago " were
out of my hands, I began the preparation of a small volume
of my scattered articles dealing with various aspects of the
theory of Natural Selection. Many of these had appeared

in little known periodicals, and were now carefully revised,

XXIII]         LIFE IN LONDON                      407

or partially rewritten, while two new ones were added. The

longest article, occupying nearly a quarter of the volume,
was one which I had written in 1865-6, but which was not

published (in  "thMeimiWcreys,tmainndsteorthReerviPerwo)tecttiilvl eJuRlye,se1m86b7la,ncaensd
was entitled
among Animals." In this article I endeavoured to give a

general account of the whole subject of protective resemblance,
of which theory, what was termed by Bates " mimicry," is a
Ivery curious special case.
                             called attention to the wide

extent of the phenomenon, and showed that it pervades

animal life from mammals to fishes and through every grade

of the insect tribes. I pointed out that the whole series of

phenomena depend upon the great principle of the utility

of every character, upon the need of protection or of con

cealment by almost all animals, and upon the known fact

that no character are so variable as colour, and that there

fore concealment has been most easily obtained by colour

modification.

    Coming to the subject of "mimicry" I gave a popular

account of its principle, with numerous illustrations of its

existence in all the chief groups of insects, not only in the

tropics, but even in our own country. I also showed, I think

for the first time, that it occurs among birds in a few well-

marked cases, and also in at least one instance among

mammalia, and I explained why we could not expect it to

occur more frequently among these higher animals.

     Two other articles which may be just mentioned are those

entitled "A Theory of Birds' Nests" and "The Limits of
Natural Selection applied to Man." In the first I pointed

out the important relation that exists between concealed

nests and the bright colours of female birds, leading to

conclusions adverse to Mr. Darwin's theory of colours and

ornaments in the males being the result of female choice.
In the other (the last in the volume) I apply Darwin's
principle of natural selection, acting solely by means of
" utilities," to show that certain physical modifications and

mental faculties in man could not have been acquired through

the preservation of useful variations, because there is some

408                  MY LIFE                     [Chap. XXIII]

direct evidence to show that they were not and are not useful

in the ordinary sense, or, as Professor Lloyd Morgan well
puts not of " life-preserving value," while there is absolutely
no evidence to show that they were so. In reply, Darwin has
is
         it,appealed to the effects of female choice in developing these

characteristics, of which, however, not particle of evidence
                        I
to be found among existing savage races.
                              a
                                     a

                                  I

                                                                    in in in
     Besides the literary and scientific work now described,

the last three years of the period now dealt with contributed

about twenty letters or short papers to various periodicals,

delivered several lectures, and reviewed dozen books,
cluding such important works as Darwin's " Descent of Man "
and Galton's " Hereditary Genius." also gave a Presidential

Address to the Entomological Society in January, 1871,

which discussed the interesting problems arising from the
       I
peculiarities of insular insects as especially illustrated by the
          it
beetles of Madeira.

     As       was during the ten years of which  have now
                                          I
                                            I

                                                         it
                                                                   of
sketched my scientific and literary work that saw most

my various scientific friends and acquaintances, and was
also in this period that the course of my future life and work

was mainly determined, will devote the next five chapters
                     I

to short summary of my more personal affairs, together
a
   a
with few recollections of those friends with whom became
                                                 I

most familiar.

               CHAPTER XXIV

HOME LIFE --MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-- SIR
                              CHARLES LYELL

SOON after my return home in the spring of 1862, my oldest

friend and schoolfellow, Mr. George Silk, introduced me to a

small circle of his friends, who had formed a private chess
club, and thereafter, while I lived in the vicinity of Kensing
ton, I was invited to attend the meetings of the club. One
of these friends was a Mr. L
                              , a widower with two
daughters, and a son who was at Cambridge University. I

sometimes went there with Silk on Sunday afternoons, and

after a few months was asked to call on them whenever I
liked in the evening to play a game with Mr. L
                                                . On

these occasions the young ladies were present, and we had

tea or supper together, and soon became very friendly. The
eldest Miss L  was, I think, about seven or eight and

twenty, very agreeable though quiet, pleasant looking, well

educated, and fond of art and literature, and I soon began to

feel an affection for her, and to hope that she would become

my wife. In about a year after my first visit there, thinking
I was then sufficiently known, and being too shy to make a

verbal offer, I wrote to her, describing my feelings and asking

if she could in any way respond to my affection. Her reply

was a negative, but not a very decided one. Evidently my

undemonstrative manner had given her no intimation of my

intentions. She concluded her letter, which was a very kind

one, by begging that I would not allow her refusal to break

off my visits to her father.

    At first I was inclined not to go again, but on showing

               409

410                      MY LIFE           [Chap.

the letter to my sister and mother, they thought the young

lady was favourably disposed, and that I had better go on

as before, and make another offer later on. Another year

passed, and thinking I saw signs of a change in her feelings
towards me, but fearing another refusal, I wrote to her father,

stating the whole circumstances, and asking him to ascertain

his daughter's wishes, and, if she was now favourable, to grant
me a private interview. In reply I was asked to call on
Mr. L
       , who inquired as to my means, etc., told me that
his daughter had a small income of her own, and asked that I

should settle an equal amount on her. This was satisfactorily

arranged, and at a subsequent meeting we were engaged.

     Everything went on smoothly for some months. We met

two or three times a week, and after delays, owing to Miss

L 's ill-health and other causes, the wedding day was fixed
and all details arranged. I had brought her to visit my
mother and sister, and I was quite unaware of any cause of

doubt or uncertainty when one day, on making my usual call,
I was informed by the servant that Miss L
                                           was not at

home, that she had gone away that morning, and would write.

I came home completely staggered, and the next morning
had a letter from Mr. L
                         , saying that his daughter wished

to break off the engagement and would write to me shortly.

The blow was very severe, and I have never in my life

experienced such intensely painful emotion.

    When the letter came I was hardly more enlightened.
The alleged cause was that I was silent as to myself and
family, that I seemed to have something to conceal, and that

I had told her nothing about a widow lady, a friend of my

mother's, that I had almost been engaged to. All this was

to me the wildest delusion. The lady was the widow of an

Indian officer, very pleasant and good-natured, and very

gossipy, but as utterly remote in my mind from all ideas of

marriage as would have been an aunt or a grandmother. As

to concealment, it was the furthest thing possible from my

thoughts ; but it never occurs to me at any time to talk about

myself, even my own children say that they know nothing

about my early life ; but if any one asks me and wishes to

XXIV]  HOME LIFE  411

know, I am willing to tell all that I know or remember. I
was dreadfully hurt. I wrote, I am afraid, too strongly, and

perhaps bitterly, trying to explain my real feelings towards

her, and assuring her that I had never had a moment's

thought of any one but her, and hoping that this explanation

would suffice. But I received no reply, and from that day
I never saw, or heard of, any of the family.

     While these events were in progress, my dear friend, Dr.
Richard Spruce, came home from Peru in very weak health,

and, after staying a short time in London, went to live at
Hurstpierpoint, in Sussex, in order to be near Mr. William

Mitten, then the greatest English authority on mosses, and

who had undertaken to describe his great collections from
South America. This was in the autumn of 1864, and in the

spring of 1865 I took a small house for myself and my

mother, in St. Mark's Crescent, Regent's Park, quite near the

Zoological Gardens, and within a pleasant walk across the

park of the society's library in Hanover Square, where I had
to go very often to consult books of reference. Here I lived

five years, having Dr. W. B. Carpenter for a near neighbour,

and it was while living in this house that I saw most of my

few scientific friends.

    During the summer and autumn I often went to Hurst

pierpoint to enjoy the society of my friend, and thus became
intimate with Mr. Mitten and his family. Mr. Mitten was

an enthusiastic botanist and gardener, and knew every wild

plant in the very rich district which surrounds the village,

and all his family were lovers of wild flowers. I remember

my delight, on the occasion of my first or second visit there,
at seeing a vase full of the delicate and fantastic flowers of

the large butterfly-orchis and the curious fly-orchis, neither

of which I had ever seen before, and which I was surprised

to hear were abundant in the woods at the foot of the downs.

It was an immense delight to me to be taken to these woods,

and to some fields on the downs where the bee-orchis and
half a dozen other species grew abundantly, with giant cow

slips nearly two feet high, the dyers' broom, and many other

412  MY LIFE  [Chap.

interesting plants. The richness of this district may be

judged by the fact that within a walk more than twenty
species of orchises have been found. This similarity of taste
led to a close intimacy, and in the spring of the following

year I was married to Mr. Mitten's eldest daughter, then

about eighteen years old.
     After a week at Windsor we came to live in London, and

in early autumn went for a month to North Wales, staying

at Llanberris and Dolgelly. I took with me Sir Andrew

Ramsay's little book on "The Old Glaciers of Switzerland
and North Wales," and thoroughly enjoyed the fine examples
of ice-groovings and striations, smoothed rock-surfaces, roches

moutonm'es, moraines, perched blocks, and rock-basins, with

which the valleys around Snowdon abound. Every day
revealed some fresh object of interest as we climbed among

the higher cwms of Snowdon ; and from what I saw during

that first visit the Ice Age became almost as much a reality
to me as any fact of direct observation. Every future tour

to Scotland, to the lake district, or to Switzerland became

doubled in interest. I read a good deal of the literature of
the subject, and have, I believe, in my later writings been

able to set forth the evidence in favour of the glacial origin
of lake-basins more forcibly than it has ever been done
before. As a result of my observations I wrote my first
article on the subject, " Ice-marks in North Wales," which

appeared in the Quarterly Journal of Science of January,
 1867. In this paper I gave a sketch of the more important

phenomena, which were then by no means so well known as

they are now ; and I also gave reasons for doubting the

conclusions of Mr. Macintosh in the Journal of the Geological
 Society, that most of the valleys and rocky cwms of North

Wales had been formed by the action of the sea. I also
gave, I think for the first time, a detailed explanation of

 how glaciers can have formed lake-basins, by grinding due

 to unequal pressure, not by "scooping out," as usually

supposed.

     In 1867 I spent the month of June in Switzerland with

 my wife, staying at Champery, opposite the beautiful Dent

XXIV]  HOME LIFE  413

du Midi, where at first we were the only visitors in a huge
new hotel, but for the second week had the company of an
English clergyman, his wife, and son. We greatly enjoyed

the beautiful subalpine flowers then in perfection, and one

day I went with the clergyman and his son, a boy of about

thirteen, to see how far we could get on the way to the great
mountain's summit. On the alp above the pine forest we
had our lunch at a cow-herd's hut, with a large jug of cream,
and then got the man to act as guide. He took us over a
ravine filled with snow, and then up a zigzag path among

the rocks along a mauvais pas, where an iron bar was fixed
on the face of a precipice, and then up to an ice-smoothed
plateau of limestone rock, still partly snow-clad, all the

crevices of which were full of alpine flowers. I was just

beginning to gather specimens of these and thought to enjoy

an hour's botanizing when our guide warned us that a snow

 storm was coming, and we must return directly, and the
black clouds and a few snowflakes made us only too willing

to follow him. We got back safely, but I have always
 regretted that hasty peep of the alpine rock-flora at a time
 of year when I never afterwards had an opportunity of

 seeing it.
      We then went by Martigny over the St. Bernard, reaching

 the hospice after dark through deep snow, and next day

 walked down to Aosta, a place which had been recommended
 to me by Mr. William Mathews, a well-known Alpine

 climber. It was a very hot place, and its chief interest

 to us was an excursion on mules to the Becca de Nona,

 which took us a long day, going up by the easiest and
 descending the most precipitous road --the latter a mere

 staircase of rock. The last thousand feet I walked up alone,

 and was highly delighted with the summit and the wonderful
 scene of fractured rocks, ridges, and peaks all around, but
 more especially with the summit itself, hardly so large as
 that of Snowdon and exhibiting far grander precipices and
 rock-masses, all in a state of visible degradation, and showing
 how powerfully the atmospheric forces of denudation are in
 constant action at this altitude -- 10,380 feet. Hardly less

414  MY LIFE  [Chap.

interesting were the charming little alpine plants in the
patches of turf and the crevices in the rocks, among which
were two species of the exquisite Androsaces, the true gems
of the primrose tribe. I also one day took a lonely walk up
a wild valley which terminated in the glacier that descends
from Mount Emilius ; and on another day we drove up the
main valley to Villeneuve, and then walked up a little way
into the Val Savaranches. This is one of those large open
valleys which have been the outlet of a great glacier, and in

which the subglacial torrent has cut a deep narrow chasm

through hard rocks at its termination, through which the
river now empties itself into the main stream of the Dora

Baltea. This was the first of the kind I had specially noticed,
though I had seen the Gorge of the Trient on my first visit
to Switzerland at a time when I had barely heard of the

glacial epoch.

     Returning over the St. Bernard we went to Interlachen

and Grindelwald, saw the glaciers there, and then went over

the Wengern Alp, staying two days at the hotel to see the

avalanches and botanize among the pastures and moraines.
Then down to Lauterbrunnen to see the Staubbach, and

thence home.

    As I had found that amid the distractions and excitement

of London, its scientific meetings, dinner parties and sight

seeing, I could not settle down to work at the more scientific
chapters of my " Malay Archipelago," I let my house in

London for a year, from Midsummer, 1867, and went to live

with my wife's family at Hurstpierpoint. There, in perfect

quiet, and with beautiful fields and downs around me, I was
able to work steadily, having all my materials already
prepared. Returning to London in the summer of 1868,

I was fully occupied in arranging for the illustrations and

correcting the proofs. The work appeared at the end of the
year, and my volume on " Natural Selection" in the following

March.

    I may here state that although the proceeds of my eight

years' collecting in the East brought me in a sufficient income

XXIV]             HOME LIFE                                                             415

to live quietly as a single man, I was always on the lookout

for some permanent congenial employment which would yet

leave time for the study of my collections. The possibility

of ever earning anything substantial either by lecturing or

by writing never occurred to me. My deficient organ of

language prevented me from ever becoming a good lecturer

or having         taste for                             while  the experience of my     first
work on "         Amazon "                           did not   encourage me to think    that
I          any
                                                  it,The

could write anything that would much more than pay

expenses. The first vacancy that occurred was the assistant

secretaryship of the Royal Geographical Society, for which

Bates and myself were candidates. Bates had just published
his " Naturalist on the Amazon," and was, besides, much

better qualified than myself by his business experience and

his knowledge of German, which he had taught himself when

abroad. Besides, the confinement and the London life

would,     am sure, have soon become uncongenial to me,
        II
and would, I      feel equally certain, have greatly shortened
               I
my life.    am therefore glad did not get and do not
                                                       I
think
                                                               I
                                                                                    it,
                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                I
                                                                                                    it
          felt any disappointment at the time and as

brought Bates to live in London, was able to see him

frequently in his private room and occasionally at his home,

and talk over old times or of scientific matters that interested

us both, while we frequently met at the Entomological or

other societies' evening meetings. This was in 1864, and
                                                                     it

                                                                         I
was too busy with my descriptive work and writings to

think much more on the subject till 1869, when                                          was

decided by the Government to establish branch museum
                                                               a

                                                                  I
in Bethnal Green which should combine art and natural

history for the instruction of the people.                           thought this

would suit me very well                                if   could get the directorship.

                                                         I

Lord Ripon, then Lord President of the Council, was                                     a

friend of Sir Charles Lyell, and after an interview with him

he promised to help me with the Government, while Huxley

(I  think) introduced me to Sir Henry Cole, then head of the

Science and Art Department at South Kensington.                                         also
                                                               I
                                                                                  it I
had the kind assistance of several other friends, but though

the museum was built and opened, think, in 1872, was

416                                 MY LIFE  [Chap.

managed from South Kensington and no special director
was required. Partly because (in my inexperience of such
matters) I felt rather confident of getting this appointment,

and also because I was becoming tired of London and wished
for a country life, I took a small house at Barking in 1870,

and in 1871 leased four acres of ground at Grays, including a

very picturesque well-timbered old chalk-pit, above which I

built a house having a very fine view across to the hills of

North Kent and down a reach of the Thames to Gravesend.

     Seven years later, in 1878, when Epping Forest had been

acquired by the Corporation of London, a superintendent

was to be appointed to see to its protection and improvement
while preserving its " natural aspect " in accordance with the

Act of Parliament which restored it to the public. This
position would have suited me exactly, and if I had obtained

it and had been allowed to utilize the large extent of open

unwooded land in the way I suggested in my article in the

Fortnightly Review (" Epping Forest, and how best to deal
with it an experiment in illustration of the geographical
     "),
distribution of plants would have been made which would
         I
have been both unique and educational, as well as generally

interesting.      obtained recommendations and testimonials

from the presidents of all the natural history societies in

London, from numerous residents near the forest and
                                             a
London, from many eminent men and members of Parlia;                    is in
ment--seventy in all but the City merchants and tradesmen
with whom the appointment lay wanted a " practical man "

to carry out their own ideas, which were to utilize all the

open spaces for games and sports, to build a large hotel

close to Queen Elizabeth's hunting lodge, and to encourage
excursions and school treats, allowing swings, round-abouts,

and other such amusements more suited to beer-garden or

village fair than to tract of land secured at enormous cost
I

                       it
                              is a
and much hardship to individuals in order to preserve an

example of the wild natural woodland wastes of our country

for the enjoyment and instruction of successive generations of

nature-lovers.

     still think                    much to be regretted that no effort

xxiv]        SIR CHARLES LYELL                                                                    417

made to carry out my suggestion in the article above referred
to (reprinted in my " Studies," vol. ii., under the title, " Epping

Forest and Temperate Forest Regions "). There still remains
in the open moors and bare wastes, forming outlying parts
of the New Forest, ample space on which to try the experi

ment, and at all events to extend the forest character of the

scenery.

    My failure to obtain the post at Epping Forest was

certainly a disappointment to me, but I am inclined to think

now that even that was really for the best, since it left me

free to do literary work which I should certainly not have
done if I had had permanent employment so engrossing and
interesting as that at Epping. In that case I should not

have gone to lecture in America, and should not have written

" Darwinism," perhaps none of my later books, and very few
of the articles contained in my "Studies." This body of

                if

                                 is,

                               I
                                                I
literary and popular scientific work  perhaps, what was

best fitted to perform, and so, neither nor my readers
have any reason to regret my failure to obtain the post of

superintendent and guardian of Epping Forest.

Among the eminent men of science with whom became
                                               I

more or less intimate during the period of my residence in

London, give the first place to Sir Charles Lyell, not only
         II
on account of his great abilities and his position as one

of the brightest ornaments of the nineteenth century, but

because      saw more of him than of any other man at all

approaching him as thinker and leader in the world of
             a

science, while my correspondence with him was more varied
in the subjects touched upon, and in some respects of more

general interest, than my more extensive correspondence with

Darwin. My friend, Sir Leonard Lyell, has kindly lent me

a volume containing the letters from his scientific corre

spondence which have been preserved, and am therefore
         L

                             I

                                                          I

                                                                                               2

                                                                                 E
able to see what subjects wrote about, and to give such
portions of the letters as seem to be of general interest.

     Early in 1864 Sir Charles was preparing his presidential
address for the meeting of the British Association at Bath,

VOL.

4i8                     MY LIFE                                        [Chap.

and wishing to introduce a paragraph as to the division of

the Malay Archipelago into two regions, and the relation of

this division to the races of man, and also as to the probable

rate of change of insects, he asked me for a short statement

of my conclusions on these subjects. On the latter point I

wrote :--

    "As regards insects changing rapidly, I see nothing

     it,
                                            a

                                                                    ;
improbable in because, though in totally different way,

they are as highly specialized as are birds or mammals, and,

through the transformations they undergo, have still more

complicated relations with the organic and inorganic worlds.

For instance, they are subject to different kinds of danger

in their larva, pupa, and imago state they have different

enemies and special means of protection in each of these

states, and changes of climate may probably affect them

differently in each state. We may therefore expect very

slight changes in the proportions of other animals, in physical

geography, or in climate, to produce an immediate change in

their numbers, and often in their organization. The fact that

they do change rapidly;         think, shown by the large number

                          iIs,
of peculiar species of insects in Madeira as compared with

the birds and plants the same thing occurs in Corsica, where

there are many peculiar species of insects also, we see the
                                                                       ;

                                                                               I

                                                                                                                     ?
very limited of range of many insects as found by Bates and

myself. Again, your rule of the slow change of mollusca

applies to aquatic species only. The land-shells, presume,

change much more rapidly or why are almost every species
                        ;

in Madeira and in each of the West Indian islands peculiar

Being terrestrial, they are affected as insects are by physical

changes, and more still by organic changes. Such changes

are certainly much slower in the sea."
     Later on, in May, after reading my article on " The Races

of Man and Natural Selection," which Darwin thought so

highly of, though at the same time he was quite distressed

at my conclusion that natural selection could not have done
   all, Sir Charles objected (May 22, 1864) --very naturally

for geologist, and for one who had so recently become

convert to Darwin's views --that my suggestion of man's
it

        a
                                                                                                                           a

xxiv]             SIR CHARLES LYELL                                              419

possible origination, so early as the Miocene, was due tois
my " want of appreciation of the immensity of time at ouris,
disposal, without going back beyond the Newer Pliocene."
a                    is,
    To this objection I replied (May 24) as follows : " Witha
regard to the probable antiquity of man, I will say a fewa
words. First, you will see, I argue for the possibility rathera

than for the necessity of man having existed in Miocene;

times, and I still maintain this possibility, and even pro

bability, for the following reasons. The question of time
cannot be judged of positively, but only comparatively. We
cannot say a priori that ten millions or a thousand millions
of years would be required for any given modification in man.
We must judge only by analogy, and by a comparison with
the rate of change of other highly organized animals. Now,

several existing genera lived in the Miocene age, and also
anthropoid apes allied to Hylobates. But man is classed,
even by Huxley, as a distinct family. The origin of that

family--that its common origin with other families of the
Primates --must therefore date back from an earlier period
than the Miocene. Now, the greater part of the family

difference manifested in the head and cranium. A being

almost exactly like man in the rest of the skeleton, but with

   cranium as little developed as that of chimpanzee, would
certainly not form distinct family, only distinct genus of
Primates. My argument, therefore, that this great cranial
difference has been slowly developing, while the rest of the

 skeleton has remained nearly stationary and while the

 Miocene Dryopithecus has been modified into the existing

 gorilla, Speechless and ape-brained man (but yet man) has
 been developed into great-brained, speech-forming man.

      " The majority of Pliocene mammals, on the other hand,
 are, believe, of existing genera, and as my whole argument

      to show how man has undergone more than generic
 change in brain and cranium, while the rest of his body has
 hardly changed specifically, cannot consistently admit that
 all this change has been brought about in less period than

 has sufficed to change most other mammals generically, except
 by assuming that in his case the change has been more
is

    I

                                        I

                                                                       a
                                                                              a

420                  MY LIFE           [Chap.

rapid, which may, indeed, have been so, but which we have
no evidence yet to prove. I conceive, therefore, that the
immensity of time, measured in years, does not affect the

argument. My paper was written too hastily and too briefly

to explain the subject fully and clearly, but I hope these

few remarks may give my ideas on the point you have

especially referred to."

    In 1867, when a new edition of the " Principles of Geology "
was in progress, I had much correspondence and many talks

with Sir Charles, chiefly on questions relating to distribution

and dispersal, in which he, like myself, was greatly interested.

He was by nature so exceedingly cautious and conservative,

and always gave such great weight to difficulties that occurred

to himself or that were put forth by others, that it was not

easy to satisfy him on any novel view upon which two opinions

existed or were possible. We used often to discuss these

various points, but in any case that seemed to him important

he usually preferred to write to me, stating his objections,

sometimes at great length, and asking me to give my views.

In reply to some such inquiries I sent him my paper on the

birds of the Lombok to Timor groups, and wrote to him at

the same time more fully explaining its bearing, as afterwards

given in my " Malay Archipelago." I also wrote him on the

curious facts as to the distribution of pigs in the whole

archipelago, as illustrated by facts he had himself given

showing the remarkable power of swimming possessed by

these animals. Another fact he wanted explained was the

presence of a few non-marsupial mammals in Australia, and

why there were not   more of them, and why none were
found in the caves.  IOn these points
                                       wrote to him as
follows :--

    "My dear Sir Charles,

         "I think the fact that the only placental land

mammals in Australia (truly indigenous) are the smallest of

all mammals is a very suggestive fact as to how they got
there. Mice would not only be carried by canoes, but they

xxiV]  SIR CHARLES LYELL                                                                    421

would also be transported occasionally by floating trees
carried down by floods. I think myself, however, that it is
most likely they were carried by the earliest canoes of pre
historic man, and that they afford an example of rapid change

of specific form, owing to the ancestral species having been

subjected to a great change of conditions, both as regards
climate and food, and having had an immense area of new

country to roam over and multiply in, in every part of which
they would be subjected to different conditions. These con

siderations, I think, fully meet the facts, and there ought to

be no large rodents found in the caves of Australia, and no

other rodents of very distinct type from those now living.
When any such are found it will be time enough to consider
how to account for them. It as you say, most important

fact that, in three such distinct localities as New Zealand,

Australia, and Mauritius, no bones of extinct carnivora or
       I
                                I is,

                                                                                    a
                                                                                                         a
other mammalia should be found along with the wingless
birds and marsupials, while abundance of remains of these
groups are found. We may, think, fairly claim this as
proof that such placental mammals did not exist in those

countries, and the fact that the only exception in the existing

Australia fauna are mice indicates very clearly that they are
a recent introduction. When all the known facts are in our
favour, do not think we need trouble ourselves to answer

objections and overcome difficulties that have not yet arisen,
and probably never will arise."

      Some months later (November, 1867) he wrote me about
the dispersal and the colours of the races of man. On the
first point replied at some length, principally to show why
we should not expect the primary regions which show the
great features of the distribution of birds, reptiles, and mam
malia should also apply to man. On the question of colour

   replied as follows " Why the colour of man sometimes
constant over large areas while in other cases varies, we

cannot certainly tell but we may well suppose to be due
to its being more or less correlated with constitutional cha
racters favourable to life. By far the most common colour
I
            I

                                                         ;:

                                                                                  it it is

422                                    MY LIFE                 [Chap.

of man is a warm brown, not very different from that of the

American Indian. White and black are alike deviations from

this, and are probably correlated with mental or physical

peculiarities which have been favourable to the increase and

maintenance of the particular race. I should infer, therefore,
that the brown or red was the original colour of man, and

that it maintains itself throughout all climates in America

because accidental deviations from it have not been accom

panied by any useful constitutional peculiarities. It is Bates's

opinion that the Indians are recent immigrants into the
tropical plains of South America, and are not yet fully

acclimatized."

    In the following year, when I was living at Hurstpierpoint,
in a letter I wrote to Sir Charles, thanking him for the

trouble he had taken in regard to the Bethnal Green Museum,

I added some remarks on Darwin's new theory of " Pan
genesis," which I will quote, because the disproof of which
                                                           it is is
   thought would not be given, was not long in coming, and,         it '
with the more satisfactory theory of Weismann, led me                      it,
II
          I                            wrote (February 20, 1868)            it
                                       Animals and Plants under                  it
                                  '),
entirely to change my opinion.         (' I                                             is is :
" am reading Darwin's book
                                                        '
Domestication                          and have read the Pangenesis chapter

first, for could not wait. The hypothesis                  sublime in its

simplicity and the wonderful manner in which                   explains

the most mysterious of the phenomena of life. To me

satisfying in the extreme.             feel can never give up,
                                       II I
unless  it  be positively disproved, which  I              impossible, or

replaced by one which better explains the facts, whichit I

highly improbable. Darwin has here decidedly gone ahead

of Spencer in generalization.          consider the most won

derful thing he has given us, but                       will not be generally

appreciated."

     This was written when was fresh from the spell of this

most ingenious hypothesis. Galton's experiments on blood

transfusion with rabbits first staggered me, as seemed to
                                                           it

me to be the very disproof had thought impossible. And

later on, when Weismann adduced his views on the continuity
of the germ-plasm, and the consequent non-heredity of

xxiv]     SIR CHARLES LYELL                       423

acquired characters ; and further, when he showed that the
supposed transmission of such characters, which Darwin had
accepted and which the hypothesis of pangenesis was con

structed to account for, was not really proved by any evidence

whatever ;-- I was compelled to discard Darwin's view in

favour of that of Weismann, which is now almost everywhere
accepted as being the most probable, as well as being the
most in accordance with all the facts and phenomena of

heredity.

     Towards the end of the year Sir Charles sent me a
number of interesting papers to read, and among them was
a criticism of Darwin by G. H. Lewes. When writing to

thank him for them I replied to this criticism as follows :--
    " I have just been looking through Lewes. I think that

in his great argument about the luminous and electric animals

he completely fails to see their true bearing. He admits the

fact that the organs producing light or electricity differ in

position and form whenever the animals that bear them differ
in general structure, while in their essential minute structure

the (corresponding) organs closely resemble each other, how

ever widely the animals may differ. But this is a necessary
consequence of such organs being modifications of muscular

tissue, which is almost identical in structure throughout the

animal kingdom. If electrical and luminous organs were always

identical in form and position as well as in structure, it would
be a powerful argument in his favour ; but as it
          a it                                    do not

                           a

                            it

                                                                    a

                                                             iIs,

                                                                                                     a
see that  proves anything but that the required special

variation of an (almost) identical tissue occurs very rarely,
and has still more rarely occurred at time and under con

ditions which rendered its accumulation useful to the animal,
in which case alone would be selected and specialized so

as to form perfect electric or luminous organ.
     " Again, to suppose that because one single organ of

simple kind may be produced independently of common

descent, therefore combination of hundreds of organs, many

of them consisting of hundreds of parts, should all be brought

by the action of similar causes to an identity of form, position,

and function (in different animals), appears to me absolutely

424                         MY LIFE                  [Chap.

inconceivable. For instance, I cannot conceive any two

species of vertebrata developed independently from distinct
primal specks of jelly (protoplasm) through the millions of

forms that must have intervened ; but I can conceive verte
brata and mollusca so developed ab initio. If this is all
Lewes claims, Darwin will, I am sure, admit it. If he main

tains a distinct origin for mammals, birds, and fishes, how

does he deal with the identical forms of the embryos up to
a certain stage, which is still that of a vertebrate animal ?

But he never tells us what he does believe in detail, and it
seems to me that his views are utterly groundless if he goes

beyond the four or five primitive forms, which is all that

Darwin claims as essential to his system.
     " His notion of the mammals of Australia having possibly

developed ab initio is too wild to be seriously refuted, and I

think he gives it up in his last part, which you have not sent

me. What of the fossil marsupials in Europe ? The identity
of embryos? The identity of bone, tooth, hair, and nail

structure ? The identical general arrangement of vertebrae,

limbs, muscles, cranium, brains, lungs, tongue, stomach, and

intestines-- all to have been developed independently through,

or out of, forms as low as medusae and actiniae by general
                            It                    "
similarity of conditions !      is  too  absurd
                                                 I

     The subject on which Sir Charles Lyell and myself had

the longest discussions was that of the effects of the glacial

period on the distribution of plants and animals, and on the

origin of lake basins. On the former question he was dis

posed to accept my views in opposition to those of Darwin,
as shown by the following letter of February 2, 1 869 : --

    "Dear Wallace,
            "The more I think over what you said yesterday

about the geographical distribution of tropical animals and

plants in the glacial period, the more I am convinced that

Darwin's difficulty may be removed by duly attending to the
effects of the absence of cold. The intensity of heat, whether

in the sea or in the air, is not so important, as you remarked,

as uniformity of temperature."

xxiv]           SIR CHARLES LYELL                                          425

     He then goes on to give illustrations of this, and urges

that there are no recent deposits in or near the tropics
containing fossil remains proving any change of fauna and

flora such as Darwin had advocated. He then continues --

    " I know of no evidence of this kind, and I don't think

that Darwin has given any time or thought to Croll's eccen

tricity theory, or to my chapters upon and wish much

that he could see your review before he came out with
this new edition (the fifth) of The Origin for am
afraid that he will make too much of the supposed corro
boration afforded by the imaginary warmth of the southern
hemisphere, and of the equally hypothetical expulsion of
tropical forms from the equatorial zone north of the line."
                             1

                              '
                                           it,

                                              ;I
                                                                        '

                                                      I

In the sixth edition of "The Origin," published three

years later, Darwin still held to his views of the extreme

severity of the glacial epoch influencing even the equatorial

zone, and explaining the transmission of so many northern

types of plants and insects to the southern hemisphere, as
shown by the following passage -- " From the foregoing facts,
                     it
                                                         :

                                                               a
namely, the presence of temperate forms on the highlands

across the whole of equatorial Africa, and along the penin

sula of India, to Ceylon and the Malay Archipelago, and in

a less marked manner across the wide expanse of tropical

South America,       appears almost certain that at some

former period, no doubt during the most severe part of                     a

glacial period, the lowlands of these continents were every

where tenanted under the equator by considerable number

of temperate forms. At this period the equatorial climate at

the level of the sea was probably about the same with that

now experienced at the height of from five to six thousand
feet under the same latitude, or perhaps even rather cooler "

(P- 338)-  " Island  Life "  have discussed at some length all

    In my
1
           a

                         I
these facts, and many others which Darwin did not take

into consideration, and have explained them on the theory

     My Quarterly Review article on " Geological Climates and the Origin of

Species," proof of which Sir Charles had seen.

426             MY LIFE  [Chap.

that the glacial epoch had no effect whatever in lowering

the temperature of equatorial plains, while it might easily

lower the snow-line on even equatorial mountains. Those

interested in this question, after reading Darwin's exposition

of his views, should read the twenty-third chapter of my
" Island Life," the facts and arguments in which, so far as I

am aware, have never been controverted. Darwin himself,

however, never accepted them.

    On the question of the ice-origin of Alpine lakes I

had much correspondence with Sir Charles, but I could never

get him to accept my extreme views. In March, 1869, I

received from him a letter of thirteen pages, and another of

thirty pages, on this and allied questions, setting forth the

reasons why he rejected ice action as having ground out

the larger lakes, much as he states them in the fourth

edition of "The Antiquity of Man." At page 361 he says
that "the gravest objection to the hypothesis of glacial

erosion on a stupendous scale is afforded by the entire

absence of lakes of the first magnitude in several areas

where they ought to exist, if the enormous glaciers which

once occupied those spaces had possessed the deep excavat
ing power ascribed to them." He then goes on to adduce

numerous places where he thinks there ought to have been

lakes on the glacier theory, which are the same as he adduced

in letters to myself, and which I answered in each case, and

sometimes at great length, by similar arguments to those I
have adduced in vol. i. chap. v. of my " Studies, Scientific
Ifand Social."
                any one who is interested in these questions,

after considering Sir Charles Lyell's difficulties and objections
in his "Antiquity of Man," will read the above cnapter,

giving special attention to the sections headed The Con

ditions that favour the Production of Lakes by Ice-erosion, and
the following section on Objections of Modern Writers

considered, I think he will, if he had paid any attention to the
Iphenomena in glaciated regions, admit that show the theory

of ice-erosion to be the only one that explains all the facts.

During the same year (1869) I find passages of interest

xxiV]         SIR CHARLES LYELL                         427

in my letters on quite different subjects, some of which I

wrote upon at a much later period. On February 25,
in a letter about the Bethnal Green Museum, I added,
" Have you seen the curious paper in the Atlantic Monthly of
                                                   '    It contains
February  on  ' The  Birth  of the  Solar  System    ?

a new nebular hypothesis, quite distinct from the old one.

The writer maintains that all we know about the formation
of the planets is that they are slowly increasing in bulk from
the falling in of meteoritic bodies. He maintains, therefore,
that this is the origin of all planets and suns, space being full
of cold meteoric dust, heat being produced by its agglomera
tion. Thus all small bodies in space are cold, all large ones

hot ; the earth is therefore getting hotter instead of colder,

and early geological action was less violent than it is now.
Is not that turning the tables on the convulsionists ?

    " Many of the author's statements are, I think, inaccurate,

but the view of the formation of the solar system by the
agglomeration of cold dust instead of hot vapour seems to
have some show of probability."

    This hypothesis was new to me, and I had quite forgotten

all about it when I met with it in Sir Norman Lockyer's
works while writing my " Wonderful Century," and definitely

adopted it as more accordant with facts and more intelligible
than Laplace's theory of the intensely heated solar nebula.

     On April 28, after referring to Darwin's regret at the
concluding passages of my Quarterly Review article on
" Man," which he " would have thought written by some one

else," I add the following summary of my position, perhaps

more simply and forcibly stated than in any of my published
works :--

    " It seems to me that if we once admit the necessity of

any action beyond ' natural selection ' in developing man,

we have no reason whatever for confining that agency to his

brain. On the mere doctrine of chances it seems to me in

the highest degree improbable that so many points of

structure, all tending to favour his mental development,

should concur in man alone of all animals. If the erect

posture, the freedom of the anterior limbs from purposes of

428                        MY LIFE          [Chap.

locomotion, the powerful and opposable thumb, the naked

skin, the great symmetery of form, the perfect organs of

speech, and, in his mental faculties, calculation of numbers,
ideas of symmetry, of justice, of abstract reasoning, of the

infinite, of a future state, and many others, cannot be shown

to be each and all useful to man in the very lowest state of
civilization --how are we to explain their co-existence in him

alone of the whole series of organized beings ? Years ago I

saw in London a bushman boy and girl, and the girl played

s very nicely on the piano. Blind Tom, the half-idiot negro
           slave, had a ' musical ear ' or brain, superior, perhaps, to that
         of the best living musicians. Unless Darwin can show me

          how this latent musical faculty in the lowest races can have
been developed through survival of the fittest, can have been

of use to the individual or the race, so as to cause those who

possessed it in a fractionally greater degree than others to

win in the struggle for life, I must believe that some other

power (than natural selection) caused that development. It
seems to me that the onus probandi will lie with those who

maintain that man, body and  mind, could    hsaevleecbteioenn.'d"eveloped
from a quadrumanous animal    by ' natural

     In a letter to Darwin, written a week later and printed in
the " Life, Letters, and Journals," Sir Charles quotes the pre

ceding argument entire, and goes on to express his general

agreement with it.
     He then refers to the glacial-lake theory as follows :--

" As to the scooping out of lake basins by glaciers, I have

had a long, amicable, but controversial correspondence with

Wallace on that subject, and I cannot get over (as, indeed, I

have admitted in print) an intimate connection between the

number of lakes of modern date and the glaciation of the

regions containing them. But as we do not know how ice

can scoop out Lago Maggiore to a depth of 2600 feet, of

which all but 600 is below the level of the sea, getting rid of

the rock supposed to be worn away as if it was salt that had

Imelted, feel that it is a dangerous causation to admit in

explanation of every cavity which we have to account for,

including Lake Superior."

xxiv]  SIR CHARLES LYELL  429

This passage shows, I think, that he was somewhat

staggered by my arguments, but could not take so great a

step without further consideration and examination of the

evidence. I feel sure, therefore, that if he had had before

him the numerous facts since made known, of erratic blocks

carried by the ice to heights far above their place of origin

in North America, and even in our own islands, as described
at p. 75 and p. 90 of my " Studies" (vol. i.), with evidence of
such action now occurring in Greenland (p. 91), of the Moel

Tryfan beds having been forced up by the glacier that filled

the Irish sea, he would have seen, I feel sure, that his

objections were all answered by actual phenomena, and that

the gradual erosion of Lago Maggiore was far within the

powers of such enormous accumulations of ice as must have

existed over its site.

    The following letter I quote entire, because it calls atten

tion to a very original but much neglected book which,
though probably not wholly sound in its theoretical basis,
contains suggestions which may help towards the solution of

a still unsolved problem :--

"Dear Sir Charles,        " May 3, 1871.

       " I have just been reading a book which has struck

me amazingly, but which has been somewhat pooh-pooh'd by

the critics, and which therefore you may not have thought

worth looking at. It is W. Mattieu Williams' ' Fuel of the

Sun.' Whether the theory is true or false, the book is the

work of a man of original genius. Its originality is so

startling that I have found it to require reading twice to take

it in thoroughly ; and it is so different from all modern

theories of the sun that I can quite see why such a work by
an outsider should not have received due attention. If

sound, it completely solves the problem of the perpetuity of

the sun's heat, and gives geologists and Darwinians any

amount of time they require. It seems to be reasonable, it

is beautifully worked out, it is quite intelligible, and till

430                      MY LIFE                                                    [Chat.

shown to be a fallacy I hold by its main doctrine. I hope

you will read        and, you see no fallacy in                                     get Sir John
                     it,
                           it

                              if
                                             if

                                                                      is
                                                                                 a

                                                                               it,
Herschell to read and tell us there              positive fallacy

which destroys its whole value or no."

     Some weeks later Sir Charles thanked me for recommend

ing the book to him, which he had read with great pleasure,
adding, "
           It        as interesting as any novel ever read." The
                         it
              it is               is

                                          I
fundamental idea of the book that the sun in its motion

through space comes into contact with an excessively diffused

space-atmosphere, which  collects and condenses by its

gravitative force, thus forming the sun's photosphere. Then,

on cooling, the outer portion of this gaseous envelope                              is

left behind or expelled, so that the mass of the sun does

not increase. The value of the explanation will of course

depend upon whether this latter part of the theory, which

the author explains at considerable length, dynamically
                         I

                                is
                                                      a is
possible. In view of modern discoveries as to the nature

of matter,           might be well for some competent physicist

to re-examine this work, which largely founded on the

author's own observations and experiments as metallurgical

chemist.

     In the latter part of 1872 was assisting Sir Charles by
reading over the completed MSS. and afterwards the proofs

of Part III. of "The Antiquity of Man," dealing with "The

Origin of Species as bearing on Man's Place in Nature." In

one of the letters wrote made suggestion (which he did
not adopt, nor did expect him to do so), but which will
       I
               it

                      is

                  aI I
                            I

                                                               a

                                         I
                                                               I
here give as         subject on which wrote afterwards, and

which       still consider to be of very great importance.

Readers of the "Antiquity" will see that part of his own

MSS. has been omitted.

     "Dear Sir Charles,                 " November 10, 1872.

           "I have read the MSS. with very great interest

Two points of importance are, Milton's advocacy of scientific

as against classical education (which should think would be
                         I

xxiv]                      SIR CHARLES LYELL                431

new to most persons), and freedom of thought as essential to
intellectual progress. The latter point (occupying pp. 13-23
of your MSS.) is of such immense importance, and your

opinion on clearly expressed, would have so much weight,
that should much wish to be developed in little more
'                             it               a
                                           it            a
    I
                      it,

                I
detail, though cannot see how can possibly be got into

 The Antiquity of Man.' The points that may be more fully
treated seem to me to be -- 1st, to show in little more detail

that there was such practical freedom of thought in Greek

schools and academies 2nd, to put forward strongly, the
                           ;

fact that, ever since the establishment of Christianity, the

education of Europe has been wholly in the hands of men

bound down by penalties to fixed dogmas, that philosophy

and science have been taught largely under the same in

fluences, and that, even at the present day and among the
most civilized nations, causes the greater part of the intel
                it)
lectual strength of the world to be wasted in endeavours toa
                          it it
reconcile old dogmas with modern thought, while no step inis

advance can be made without the fiercest opposition by those

whose vested interests are bound up in these dogmas.

"3rd. should like to see (though, perhaps, you are not
a
prepared to do             strong passage following up your con
    I
cluding words, pointing out that    it         disgrace to civilization

                                        is
                                            a

and crime against posterity, that the great mass of the

instructors of our youth should still be those who are fettered

by creeds and dogmas which they are under penalty to
                                               a
teach, and urging that              the very first duty of the Governis

ment of free people to take away all such restraints from
       a

the national church, and so allow the national teachers to

represent the most advanced thought, the highest intellect,

and the purest morality the age can produce. It equally

the duty of the State to disqualify as teachers, in all schools

and colleges under its control, those whose interests are in

any way bound up with the promulgation of fixed creeds or

dogmas of whatever nature.                     you could do something
     " should be exceedingly glad
I
                   I

                                         if
of this kind, because look with great alarm on the move

ment for the disestablishment of the Church of England,

432  MY LIFE                                                                                                                 [Chap.

a step which I fear would retard freedom of thought for
centuries. This would inevitably be its effect if any similar
proportion of its revenues, as in the case of the Irish Church,
was handed over to the disestablished Church of England,

which would then still retain much of its prestige and

respectability, would have enormous wealth, which might be

indefinitely increased by further private endowments, and

might have a ruling episcopacy with absolute power, who

would keep up creeds and dogmas, and repress all freedom

of thought and action, and thus do irreparable injury to the

nation. Besides this, we should lose a grand organization

for education and a splendid endowment which might confer
incalculable benefits on society if only its recipients were

rendered absolutely free. What might have been the result

during the last hundred years, the twenty thousand sermons
if,

   I
            I

                            it

                                                     a

                                                 if

                                                                                                                          ?

                                                          if
which are preached every Sunday in Great Britain, instead

of being rigidly confined to one monotonous subject, had
been true lessons in civilization, morality, the laws of health,

and other useful (or elevating) knowledge, and the teachers
had been the high class of men who, unfettered, would have
gladly entered this the noblest of professions

     " so much fear that Miall's premature agitation may force

some future Government to (carry) disestablishment on any
terms, that think of the greatest importance to point out

what may be lost by such step."

     The passages referred to in the beginning of the above
letter were both omitted by Sir Charles, being thought,
apparently, rather out of place. The book did not appear
till the following summer, and from that time till his death
he undertook no more literary work. My remarks on the
question of disestablishment, however, seemed to me so

important that elaborated my ideas into an article, which

appeared in Macmillan's Magazine (April, 1873), and
reprinted in the second volume of my " Studies," under the
title, " Disestablishment and Disendowment with proposal
for really National Church of England." In putting this
suggestion before the country have done what was my
     a

                 I
                                     I

                                                                                                                   :

                                                                                          a
                                                                                                              in

                                                                                                                                      is

xxiv]        SIR CHARLES LYELL                      433

power to indicate a method by which, when the time for
legislation comes, the present institution may be replaced by
one that will be a great educational and moral power in every

part of our land.

   I do not remember when I first saw Sir Charles Lyell,

but I probably met him at some of the evening meetings of
the scientific societies. I first lunched with him in the

summer of 1863, and then met, for the first time, Lady Lyell

and Miss Arabella B. Buckley. Miss Buckley had become

Sir Charles's private secretary early in that year, and she
informs me that she remembers this visit because Lady

Lyell gave her impressions of me afterwards -- I am afraid
not very favourable ones, as I was shy, awkward, and quite
unused to good society. With Sir Charles I soon felt at

home, owing to his refined and gentle manners, his fund of

quiet humour, and his intense love and extensive knowledge
of natural science. His great liberality of thought and wide

general interests were also attractive to me ; and although
when he had once arrived at a definite conclusion he held
by it very tenaciously until a considerable body of well-

  ascertained facts could be adduced againstityet he was
                          it,
  always willing to listen to the arguments of his opponents,

  and to give them careful and repeated consideration. This

  was well shown in the time and trouble he gave to the

  discussion with myself as to the glacial origin of the larger

  alpine lake basins, writing me one letter of thirty pages
  on the subject. Considering his position as the greatest

  living authority on physical geology, certainly showed

  remarkable open-mindedness that he should condescend to

discuss the subject with such mere amateur and tyro as
             Ia
II  then was. The theory was, however, too new and too

  revolutionary for him to make up his mind at once, but he

  certainly was somewhat influenced by the facts and arguments

    set before him, as shown by the expressions in his corre

  spondence with Darwin, which have quoted.

      In the much vaster and more important problem of the

  development of man from the lower animals, though convinced

    VOL.  L                                   2

                                                 F

434     MY LIFE                                                                                                                              [Chap.

of the general truth of Darwin's views, with which he had

been generally acquainted for twenty years, he was yet loth

to express himself definitely ; and Darwin himself was as

much disappointed with his pronouncement in the recently

published "Antiquity of Man," as he was with my rejection

of the sufficiency of natural selection to explain the origin

of man's mental and moral nature. Sir Charles Lyell's

character is well exhibited in what he wrote Darwin soon
"Iafter its publication (March u, 1863).
                                          find myself,

after reasoning through a whole chapter, in favour of man's

coming from the animals, relapsing to my old views whenever

I read again a few pages of the 'Principles/ or yearn for
fossil types of intermediate grade. Truly, I ought to be

charitable to Sedgwick and others. Hundreds who have

bought my book in the hope that I should demolish heresy

will be awfully confounded and disappointed. . . . What

I am anxious to effect is to avoid positive inconsistencies in

different parts of my book, owing probably to the old trains

of thought, the old ruts, interfering with the new course.

But you ought to be satisfied, as I shall bring hundreds
towards you, who, if I treated the matter more dogmatically,
would have rebelled. I have spoken out to the utmost

extent of my tether, so far as my reason goes, and further
than my imagination and sentiment can follow, which, I

suppose, has caused occasional incongruities" ("Life of Sir

Charles Lyell," vol. p. 363). These passages well exhibit
the difficulties with which the writer had to contend, and
is
                                  ii.

                                           I

                                                                            a

                                                                                                                                          ;
serve to explain that careful setting forth of opposing facts

and arguments without stating any definite conclusion, which

     felt to be unsatisfactory in some portions of his great

works.

     During the ten years 1863-72, saw good deal of Sir

Charles. If he had any special subject on which he wished

for information, he would sometimes walk across the park to
St. Mark's Crescent for an hour's conversation at other

times he would ask me to lunch with him, either to meet

some interesting visitor or for friendly talk. After my

xxiv]  SIR CHARLES LYELL  435

marriage we occasionally dined with him or went to his

evening receptions. These latter were very interesting, both
because they were not overcrowded and on account of the
number of scientific and other men of eminence to be met
there. Among these were Professor Tyndall, Sir Charles
Wheatstone, Sir Charles Bunbury, Mr. Lecky, and a great

many others. The Duke of Argyll was frequently there, and

although we criticized each other's theories rather strongly,

he was always very friendly, and we generally had some

minutes' conversation whenever I met him. Miss Buckley

(now Mrs. Fisher) was a very constant guest, and would point
out to me the various celebrities who happened to be present,

and thus began a cordial friendship which has continued

unbroken, and has been a mutual pleasure and advantage.

I therefore look back upon my friendship with Sir Charles

Lyell with unalloyed satisfaction as one of the most instruc

tive and enjoyable episodes in my life-experience.

       END OF VOL. I


MY
LIFE
A RECORD OF EVENTS AND OPINIONS
BY
ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE
AUTHOR OF
" MAN'S PLACE IN THE UNIVERSE," "THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO," " DARWINISM,"
"GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ANIMALS," 'NATURAL
SELECTION AND TROPICAL NATURE," ETC.
WITH FACSIMIILE LETTERS, ILLUSTRA TIONS
AND PORTRAITS
TWO VOLUME
VOLUME II
LONDON: CHAPMAN & HALL, LD,
I905


CONTENTS

CHAPTER XXV

PAGE

MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-DARWIN..       I

CHAPTER XXVI

MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-SPENCER, HUXLEY, MIVART,

ETC............ 23

CHAPTER XXVII

MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-SIR JAMES BROOKE, PROFESSOR ROLLESTON, MR. AUG. MONGREDIEN, SIR RICHARD

OWEN, DR. RICHARD SPRUCE...51

CHAPTER XXVIII

MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-DR. PURLAND, MR. SAMUEL

BUTLER, PROFESSOR HAUGHTON.    75

CHAPTER XXIX

SKETCH OF MY LIFE AND WORK, I87I-I886.. 90

CHAPTER XXX

AN AMERICAN LECTURE TOUR-BOSTON TO WASHINGTON. 107

CHAPTER XXXI

LECTURING TOUR IN AMERICA - WASHINGTON TO SAN

FRANCISCO......36

CHAPTER XXXII

LECTURING TOUR IN AMERICA-CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC..171

vi CONTENTS
CHAPTER XXXIII
PAGE
LITERARY WORK, ETC., 1887-1905...... 200
CHAPTER XXXIV
LAND NATIONALIZATION TO SOCIALISM, AND THE FRIENDS
THEY BROUGHT ME........ 235
CHAPTER XXXV
MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM-CORRESPONDENCE WITH SCIENTIFIC AND LITERARY MEN....... 275
CHAPTER XXXVI
Two BIOLOGICAL INQUIRERS: AN EPISODE IN THE HISTORY
OF SPIRITUALISM..... 300
CHAPTER XXXVII
SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES IN ENGLAND AND AMERICA. 327
CHAPTER XXXVIII
THE ANTI-VACCINATION CRUSADE.. 351
CHAPTER XXXIX
A CHAPTER ON MONEY MATTERS-EARNINGS AND LOSSESSPECULATIONS AND LAW-SUITS... 360
CHAPTER XL
MY CHARACTER-NEW IDEAS-PREDICTIONS FULFILLED.. 382
ADDENDUM (CHAPTER XXXIIIA)
EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS... 401
INDEX............ 419

ILLUSTRATIONS
"OLD ORCHARD," BROADSTONE
(Built in I902)
MY FIRST LETTER FROM DR. PURLAND
ENVELOPE OF SECOND LETTER.
A LETTER FROM DR. PURLAND.
A FULL SIGNATURE
HEADING OF LETTER FROM DR. PURLAND.
AN ILLUSTRATED LETTER
MY LAST LETTER FROM DR. PURLAND
"THE DELL," GRAYS, ESSEX.
ALFRED R. WALLACE. 1878.
"NUTWOOD COTTAGE," GODALMING.
THE SARACEN'S TENT, LURAY CAVERN
SAUK RAPIDS, MINNESOTA. EFFECTS OF A TORNADO
ON THE DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILWAY.
"THE SQUATTER," GARDEN OF THE GODS, COL.
GATEWAY TO GARDEN OF THE GODS: WITH PIKE'S
PEAK
THE SEAL AND BEAR, GARDEN OF THE GODS
"CATHEDRAL SPIRES," GARDEN OF THE GODS
Frontispiece
To face p. 76
77,, 77,, 78,, 79
5. 80
To face p. 8I,, 92,, 98,, 103,, 137,, 150,, 176, I79, 80, I80, 80

viii ILLUSTRATIONS
DIAGRAMS ILLUSTRATING EXPERIMENTS TO SHOW CONVEXITY OF THE EARTH..... j5. 366-368
LLANRHAIDWR WATERFALL...... Toface i. 403
NOTE.
The portraits of the Author illustrating this work show him at the
following ages:AGE 25. BEFORE GO1 TG TO THE AMAZON., 30. BEFORE THE MALAYAN JOURNEY.,, 46. AT PUBLICATION OF " MALAY ARCHIPELAGO.",, 55. AT PUBLICATION OF "TROPICAL NATURE.", 80. FRONTISPIECE.
The Frontispiece to " Darwinism " (age 66) completes the Series.

MY LIFE

A RECORD OF EVENTS AND OPINIONS

CHAPTER XXV

MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-DARWIN

SOON after I returned home, in the summer of 1862, Mr.

Darwin invited me to come to Down for a night, where I

had the great pleasure of seeing him in his quiet home, and

in the midst of his family. A year or two later I spent a

week-end with him in company with Bates, Jenner Weir,

and a few other naturalists; but my most frequent interviews with him were when he spent a few weeks with his

brother, Dr. Erasmus Darwin, in Queen Anne Street, which

he usually did every year when he was well enough, in order

to see his friends and collect information for his various

works. On these occasions I usually lunched with him and

his brother, and sometimes one other visitor, and had a little

talk on some of the matters specially interesting him. He

also sometimes called on me in St. Mark's Crescent for a

quiet talk or to see some of my collections.

My first letter from him dealing with scientific matters

was in August, 1862, and our correspondence was very extensive during the period occupied in writing or correcting

his earlier books on evolution, down to the publication of

"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals,"

in 1872, and afterwards, at longer intervals, to within less

than a year of his death. A considerable selection of our

VOL. II.     I  B

2
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
correspondence has been published in the "Life and Letters "
(I887), and especially in "More Letters" (I903); while
several of the more interesting of these were contained in the
one-volume life, entitled "Charles Darwin," which appeared in
1892. As many of my readers, however, may not have these
works to refer to, I will here give a few of his letters to
myself which have not yet been published, together with
some of my own, and also occasional extracts from some of
Darwin's that have already appeared, in order to make clear
the nature of our discussions, and also, perhaps, to throw a
little light upon our respective characters.
In a letter entirely without date, but which was evidently
written in 1863, he gives me some information for which I
had asked about reviews of the " Origin of Species."
"Down, Bromley, Kent (I863).
"MY DEAR MR. WALLACE,
"I write one line to thank you for your note, and
to say that the B. of Oxford wrote the Quarterly R. (paid
~6o), aided by Owen. In the Edinburgh, Owen no doubt
praised himself. Mr. Maw's review in Zoologist is one of the
best, and staggered me in parts, for I did not see the sophistry
of (those) parts. I could lend you any which you might wish
to see, but you would soon be tired. Hopkins in Fraser and
Pictet are two of the best.
"I am glad you like the little orchid book; but it has not
been worth the ten months it has cost me: it was a hobbyhorse, and so beguiled me.
" How puzzled you must be to know what to begin at!
You will do grand work, I do not doubt. My health is, and
always will be, very poor: I am that miserable animal, a
regular valetudinarian.
"Yours very sincerely,
" C. DARWIN."
In March, 1864, he wrote me from Malvern Wells that he
had been very ill at home, having fits of vomiting every day
for two months, and been able to do nothing. These attacks

xxV]
DARWIN
3
were brought on by the least mental excitement, which often
rendered it impossible for him to see his friends, and which
appear to have lasted at intervals throughout his life. This
must always be remembered when we consider the enormous
amount of work he was able to do; but, fortunately, the quiet
interest of carrying out observations or experiments lasting
for months, and often for years, seem to have been beneficial.
On the other hand, writing his books and correcting the
MSS. and the proofs in the very careful manner he always
practised were most wearying and distasteful to him.
On February 23, I867, he wrote to me asking if I could
solve a difficulty for him. He says: " On Monday evening I
called on Bates, and put a difficulty before him which he could
not answer, and, as on some former similar occasion, his first
suggestion was, ' You had better ask Wallace.' My difficulty
is, Why are caterpillars sometimes so beautifully and artistically coloured? Seeing that many are coloured to escape
dangers, I can hardly attribute their bright colour in other
cases to mere physical conditions. Bates says the most
gaudy caterpillar he ever saw in Amazonia was conspicuous
at the distance of yards, from its black and red colours,
whilst feeding on large, green leaves. If any one objected to
male butterflies having been made beautiful by sexual
selection, and asked why they should not have been made
beautiful as well as their caterpillars, what would you answer?
I could not answer, but should maintain my ground. Will
you think over this, and some time, either by letter or when
we meet, tell me what you think? "
On reading this letter, I almost at once saw what seemed
to be a very easy and probable explanation of the facts. I
had then just been preparing for publication (in the Westminster Review) my rather elaborate paper on " Mimicry and
Protective Colouring," and the numerous cases in which
specially showy and slow-flying butterflies were known to
have ar'peculiar odour and taste which protected them from
the attacks of insect-eating birds and other animals, led me at
once to suppose that the gaudily-coloured caterpillars must

4
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
have a similar protection. I had just ascertained from Mr.
Jenner Weir that one of our common white moths (Spilosoma
menthrastri) would not be eaten by most of the small birds
in his aviary, nor by young turkeys. Now, as a white moth
is as conspicuous in the dusk as a coloured caterpillar in the
daylight, this case seemed to me so much on a par with the
other that I felt almost sure my explanation would turn out
correct. I at once wrote to Mr. Darwin to this effect, and
his reply, dated February 26, is as follows:"MY DEAR WALLACE,
" Bates was quite right; you are the man to apply
to in a difficulty. I never heard anything more ingenious
than your suggestion, and I hope you may be able to prove
it true. That is a splendid fact about the white moths; it
warms one's very blood to see a theory thus almost proved to
be true."
The following week I brought the subject to the notice of
the Fellows of the Entomological Society at their evening
meeting (March 4), requesting that any of them who had
the opportunity would make observations or experiments
during the summer in accordance with Mr. Darwin's suggestion. I also wrote a letter to The Field newspaper,
which, as it explains my hypothesis in simple language, I here
give entire:"CATERPILLARS AND BIRDS.
"SIR,
"May I be permitted to ask the co-operation of
your readers in making some observations during the coming
spring and summer which are of great interest to Mr. Darwin
and myself? I will first state what observations are wanted,
and then explain briefly why they are wanted. A number
of our smaller birds devour quantities of caterpillars, but there
is reason to suspect that they do not eat all alike. Now we
want direct evidence as to which species they eat and which

xxv]
DARWIN
5
they reject. This may be obtained in two ways. Those who
keep insectivorous birds, such as thrushes, robins, or any of
the warblers (or any other that will eat caterpillars), may
offer them all the kinds they can obtain, and carefully note
(I) which they eat, (2) which they refuse to touch, and (3)
which they seize but reject. If the name of the caterpillar
cannot be ascertained, a short description of its more prominent characters will do very well, such as whether it is
hairy or smooth, and what are its chief colours, especially
distinguishing such as are green or brown from such as are of
bright and conspicuous colours, as yellow, red, or black. The
food plant of the caterpillar should also be stated when known.
Those who do not keep birds, but have a garden much frequented by birds, may put all the caterpillars they can find
in a soup plate or other vessel, which must be placed in a
larger vessel of water, so that the creatures cannot escape,
and then after a few hours note which have been taken and
which left. If the vessel could be placed where it might be
watched from a window, so that the kind of birds which took
them could also be noted, the experiment would be still more
complete. A third set of observations might be made on
young fowls, turkeys, guinea-fowls, pheasants, etc., in exactly
the same manner.
" Now the purport of these observations is to ascertain the
law which had determined the coloration of caterpillars.
The analogy of many other insects leads us to believe that
all those which are green or brown, or of such speckled or
mottled tints as to resemble closely the leaf or bark of the
plant on which they feed, or the substance on which they
usually repose, are thus to some degree protected from the
attacks of birds and other enemies. We should expect,
therefore, that all which are thus protected would be greedily
eaten by birds whenever they can find them. But there are
other caterpillars which seem coloured on purpose to be conspicuous, and it is very important to know whether they have
another kind of protection, altogether independent of disguise,
such as a disagreeable odour and taste. If they are thus protected, so that the majority of birds will never eat them, we

MY LIFE
[C HAP,
can understand that to get the full benefit of this protection
they should be easily recognized, should have some outward
character by which birds would soon learn to know them and
thus let them alone; because if birds could not tell the eatable from the uneatable till they had seized and tasted them,
the protection would be of no avail, a growing caterpillar
being so delicate that a wound is certain death. If, therefore,
the eatable caterpillars derive a partial protection from their
obscure and imitative colouring, then we can understand that
it would be an advantage to the uneatable kinds to be
well distinguished from them by bright and conspicuous
colours.
"I may add that this question has an important bearing
on the whole theory of the origin of the colours of animals,
and especially of insects. I hope many of your readers may
be thereby induced to make such observations as I have
indicated, and if they will kindly send me their notes at the
end of the summer, or earlier, I will undertake to compare
and tabulate the whole, and to make known the results,
whether they confirm or refute the theory here indicated.
"ALFRED R. WALLACE.
"9, St. Mark's Crescent, Regent's Park, N.W.,
" March, I867."
This letter brought me only one reply, from a gentleman
in Cumberland, who informed me that the common "gooseberry" caterpillar, which is the lava of the magpie moth
(Abraxas grossulariata), is refused by young pheasants, partridges, and wild ducks, as well as sparrows and finches, and
that all birds to whom he offered it rejected it with evident
dread and abhorrence. But in I869 two entomologists, Mr.
Jenner Weir and Mr. A. G. Butler, gave an account of their
two seasons' experiments and observations with several of
our most gaily-coloured caterpillars, and with a considerable
variety of birds, and also with lizards, frogs, and spiders, confirming my explanation in a most remarkable manner. An
account of these experiments is given in the second and all
later editions of my book on "Natural Selection;" but it

XXV]
DARWIN
7
is more fully treated in my "Darwinism," chap. ix., under
the heading " Warning Colours among Insects," and it has thus
led to the establishment of a general principle which is very
widely applicable, and serves to explain a not inconsiderable
proportion of the colours and markings in the animal world.
It is, of course, only a wider application of the same fundamental fact by which Bates had already explained the purpose
of "mimicry" among insects, and it is a matter of surprise to
me that neither Bates himself nor Darwin had seen the probability of the occurrence of inedibility in the larvae as well as
in the perfect insects.
In the year 1870 Mr. A. W. Bennett read a paper before
Section D. of the British Association at Liverpool, entitled
"The Theory of Natural Selection from a Mathematical
Point of View," and this paper was printed in full in Nature
of November Io, 1870. To this I replied on November 17,
and my reply so pleased Mr. Darwin that he at once wrote to
me as follows:"Down, November 22.
"MY DEAR WALLACE,
"' I must ease myself by writing a few words to say
how much I and all in this house admire your article in
Nature. You are certainly an unparalleled master in lucidly
stating a case and in arguing. Nothing ever was better
done than your argument about the term Origin of Species,
and about much being gained if we know nothing about
precise cause of each variation."
At the end of the letter he says something about the
progress of his great work, " The Descent of Man."
"I have finished Ist vol. and am half-way through proofs
of 2nd vol. of my confounded book, which half kills me by
fatigue, and which I fear will quite kill me in your good
estimation.
"If you have leisure, I should much like a little news of
you and your doings and your family,
"Ever yours very sincerely,
"CH. DARWIN."

8
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
The above remark, "kill me in your good estimation,"
refers to his views on the mental and moral nature of man
being very different from mine, this being the first important
question as to which our views had diverged. But I never
had the slightest feeling of the kind he supposed, looking
upon the difference as one which did not at all affect our
general agreement, and also as being one on which no one
could dogmatize, there being much to be said on both sides.
The last paragraph shows the extreme interest he took in the
personal affairs of all his friends.
As my article of which he thought so highly is buried in an
early volume of Nature, I will here reproduce the rather long
paragraph which so specially interested him. It is as follows:" The first objection brought forward (and which had been
already advanced by the Duke of Argyll) is, that the very
title of Mr. Darwin's celebrated work is a misnomer, and that
the real 'origin of species' is that spontaneous tendency to
variation which has not yet been accounted for. Mr. Bennett
further remarks that, throughout my volume of 'Essays,' I
appear to be unconscious that the theory I advocate does
not go to the root of the matter. It is true that I am 'unconscious' of anything of the kind, for I maintain, and am
prepared to prove, that the theory, if true, does go to the very
root of the question of the 'origin of species.' The objection,
which from its being so often made, and now again brought
forward, is evidently thought to be an important one, is
founded on a misapprehension of the right meaning of
words. It ignores the fact that the word 'species' denotes
something more than 'variety' or 'individual.' A species
is an organic form (or group) which, for periods of great
and indefinite length, as compared with the duration of
human life, fluctuates only within narrow limits. But the
'spontaneous tendency to variation' is altogether antagonistic
to such comparative stability, and would, if unchecked, entirely destroy all 'species.' Abolish, if possible, selection
and survival of the fittest, so that every spontaneous variation
should survive in equal proportion with all others, and the
result must inevitably be an endless variety of unstableforms

xxv]
DARWIN
9
no one of which would answer to what we mean by the word
'species.' No other cause but selection has yet been discovered capable of perpetuating and giving stability to some
forms, and causing the disappearance of others, and therefore
Mr. Darwin's book, if there is any truth in it at all, has a
logical claim to its title. It shows how 'species,' or stable
forms, are produced out of unstable spontaneous variations,
which is certainly to trace their 'origin.' The distinction of
'species' and 'individual' is equally important. A horse, or
a number of horses, as such, do not constitute a 'species.' It
is the comparative permanence of the form as distinguished
from the ass, quagga, zebra, tapir, camel, etc., that makes
them one. Were there a mass of intermediate forms connecting all these animals by fine gradations, and hardly a
dozen individuals alike-as would probably be the case had
selection not acted-there might be a few horses, but there
would be no such thing as a species of horse. That could only
be produced by some power capable of eliminating intermediate forms as they arose, and preserving all of the true horse
type; and such a power was first shown to exist by Mr.
Darwin. The origin of varieties and individuals is one thing,
the origin of species another."
It is a remarkable thing that this very simple preliminary
misunderstanding of the very meaning of the term " species "
continued to appear year after year in most of the criticisms
of the theory of natural selection. It was put forward both
by mere literary critics and also by naturalists, and was in
many cases adduced as a discovery which completely overthrew the whole of Darwin's work. So frequent was it that
twenty years later, when writing my "Darwinism," I found it
necessary to devote the first chapter to a thorough explanation of this point, under the heading, "What are 'Species,' and
what is meant by their 'Origin'?" and I think I may feel
confident that to those who have read that work this particular
purely imaginary difficulty will no longer exist.
Soon after the "Descent of Man" appeared, I wrote to
Darwin, giving my impressions of the first volume, to which
he replied (January 30, I87I). This letter is given in the

IO
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
"Life and Letters" (iii. p. 134), but I will quote two short
passages expressing his kind feelings towards myself. He
begins, "Your note has given me very great pleasure, chiefly
because I was so anxious not to treat you with the least disrespect, and it is so difficult to speak fairly when differing
from any one. If I had offended you, it would have grieved
me more than you will readily believe." And the conclusion
is, " Forgive me for scribbling at such length. You have put
me quite in good spirits; I did so dread having been unintentionally unfair towards your views. I hope earnestly the
second volume will escape as well. I care now very little
what others say. As for our not agreeing, really, in such
complex bsubjects, it is almost impossible for two men who
arrive independently at their conclusions to agree fully; it
would be unnatural for them to do so."
I reviewed "The Descent," in The Academy, early in
March, and Darwin wrote to me on the I6th, expressing his
gratification at its whole tone and matter, and then, referring
to the differences between us, making what was then a good
point against me-that my objections to sexual selection
having produced certain results in man, had not much force
if, as he believed, I admitted that the plumes of the birds of
paradise had been thus gained. At that time, though I had
begun to doubt, I had not definitely rejected the whole of
that part of "sexual selection" depending on female preference for certain colours and ornaments.
On July 9, 187I, he wrote me a long letter, chiefly about
Mr. Mivart's criticisms and accusations in his book on " The
Genesis of Species," and again in a severe article in the
Quarterly Review. These he proposed replying to in a new
edition of the " Origin," but the incident worried him a good
deal. In a postscript he says, " I quite agree with what you
say, that Mivart fully intends to be honourable, but he seems
to me to have the mind of a most able lawyer retained to
plead against us, and especially against me. God knows
whether my strength and spirit will last out to write a chapter
versus Mivart and others; I do so hate controversy, and feel
I shall do it so badly."

XXV]
DARWIN
II
Again, on July 12, he writes: " I feel very doubtful how
far I shall succeed in answering Mivart. It is so difficult to
answer objections to doubtful points and make the discussion
readable. The worst of it is, that I cannot possibly hnnt
through all my references for isolated points-it would take
me three weeks of intolerably hard work. I wish I had your
power of arguing clearly. At present I feel sick of everything,
and if I could occupy my time and forget my daily discomforts,
or rather miseries, I would never publish another word. But
I shall cheer up, I dare say, soon, having only just got over
a bad attack. Farewell. God knows why I bother you about
myself.
"I can say nothing more about missing links than I
have said. I should rely much on pre-Silurian times; but
then comes Sir W. Thompson like an odious spectre.
Farewell."
I give these extracts because they serve to explain why
Darwin did not publish the systematic series of volumes
dealing with the whole of the subjects treated in the
"Origin." With his almost constant and most depressing
ill-health, the real wonder is that he did so much. We can,
therefore, fully understand why, when he had published the
"Descent of Man," in I87I, and the second editions of that
work and of the " Animals and Plants," in I875, with the intervening " Expression of Emotions," in 1872, he should devote
himself almost entirely to the long series of observations and
experiments upon living plants, which constituted his relaxation and delight, and resulted in that series of volumes which
are of the greatest value and interest to all students of the
marvels and mysteries of vegetable life. And when, in I881,
he published his last volume upon "Worms," giving the
result of observations and experiments carried on for fortyfour years, he enjoyed the great satisfaction of its being a
wonderful success, while it was received by the reviewers
with unanimous praise and applause.
During this latter period of his life I had but little correspondence with him, as I had no knowledge whatever of the
subjects he was then working on. But he still continued to

12
MY LIFE
LCHAP.
write to me occasionally, either referring kindly to my own
work or sending me facts or suggestions which he thought
would be of interest to me. I will here give only some
extracts from a few of the latest of the letters I received
from him.
On November 3, I88o, he wrote me the following very
kind letter upon my " Island Life," on which I had asked for
his criticism:" I have now read your book, and it has interested me
deeply. It is quite excellent, and seems to me the best book
which you have ever published; but this may be merely
because I have read it last. As I went on I made a few
notes, chiefly where I differed slightly from you; but God
knows whether they are worth your reading. You will be
disappointed with many of them; but it will show that I
had the will, though I did not know the way to do what
you wanted.
" I have said nothing on the infinitely many passages
and views, which I admired and which were new to me.
My notes are badly expressed, but I thought that you would
excuse my taking any pains with my style. I wish my
confounded handwriting was better. I had a note the other
day from Hooker, and I can see that he is much pleased
with the dedication."
With this came seven foolscap pages of notes, many
giving facts from his extensive reading which I had not
seen. There were also a good many doubts and suggestions
on the very difficult questions in the discussion of the causes
of the glacial epochs. Chapter xxiii., discussing the Arctic
element in south temperate floras, was the part he most
objected to, saying, " This is rather too speculative for my old
noddle. I must think that you overrate the importance of
new surfaces on mountains and dispersal from mountain to
mountain. I still believe in Alpine plants having lived on
the lowlands and in the southern tropical regions having
been cooled during glacial periods, and thus only can I
understand character of floras on the isolated African
mountains. It appears to me that you are not justified

XXV]
DARWIN
13
in arguing from dispersal to oceanic islands to mountains.
Not only in latter cases currents of sea are absent, but what
is there to make birds fly direct from one Alpine summit to
another? There is left only storms of wind, and if it is
probable or possible that seeds may thus be carried for great
distances, I do not believe that there is at present any
evidence of their being thus carried more than a few
miles."
This is the most connected piece of criticism in the notes,
and I therefore give it verbatim. My general reply is printed
in " More Letters," vol. iii. p. 22. Of course I carefully considered all Darwin's suggestions and facts in later editions
of my book, and made use of several of them. The last,
as above quoted, I shall refer to again when considering the
few important matters as to which I arrived at different
conclusions from Darwin. But I will first give another
letter, two months later, in which he recurs to the same
subject.
"Down, January 2, i88I.
"MY DEAR WALLACE,
"The case which you give is a very striking one,
and I had overlooked it in Nature; 1 but I remain as great a
heretic as ever. Any supposition seems to me more probable
than that the seeds of plants should have been blown from
the mountains of Abyssinia, or other central mountains of
Africa, to the mountains of Madagascar. It seems to me
almost infinitely more probable that Madagascar extended
far to the south during the glacial period, and that the
S. hemisphere was, according to Croll, then more temperate;
and that the whole of Africa was then peopled with some
temperate forms, which crossed chiefly by agency of birds
and sea-currents, and some few by the wind, from the shores
of Africa to Madagascar subsequently ascending to the
mountains.
"How lamentable it is that two men should take such
i Nature, December 9, I880. The substance of this article by Mr. Baker, of
Kew, is given in "More Letters," vol. iii. p. 25, in a footnote.

14
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
widely different views, with the same facts before them;
but this seems to be almost regularly our case, and much do
I regret it. I am fairly well, but always feel half dead with
fatigue. I heard but an indifferent account of your health
some time ago, but trust that you are now somewhat
stronger.
"Believe me, my dear Wallace,
"Yours very sincerely,
"CH. DARWIN."
It is really quite pathetic how much he felt difference of
opinion from his friends. I, of course, should have liked to
have been able to convert him to my views, but I did not
feel it so much as he seemed to do. In letters to Sir Joseph
Hooker (in February and August, I88i) he again states his
view as against mine very strongly ("More Letters," iii.
pp. 25 and 27); and this, so far as I know, is the last reference
he made to the subject. The last letter I received from him
was entirely on literary and political subjects, and, as usual,
very kind and friendly. As it makes no reference to our
controversies, and touches on questions never introduced before
in our correspondence, I think it will be interesting to give it
entire.
"Down, July I2, i88i.
"MY DEAR WALLACE,
"I have been heartily glad to get your note and
hear some news of you. I will certainly order 'Progress and
Poverty,' for the subject is a most interesting one. But I
read many years ago some books on political economy, and
they produced a disastrous effect on my mind, viz., utterly
to distrust my own judgment on the subject, and to doubt
much every one else's judgment! So I feel pretty sure that
Mr. George's book will only make my mind worse confounded
than it is at present. I also have just finished a book which
has interested me greatly, but whether it would interest any
one else I know not. It is the ' Creed of Science,' by W.
Graham, A.M. Who or what he is I know not, but he

xxv]
DARWIN
I5
discusses many great subjects, such as the existence of God,
immortality, the moral sense, the progress of society, etc.
I think some of his propositions rest on very uncertain
foundations, and I could get no clear idea of his notions
about God. Notwithstanding this and other blemishes, the
book has interested me extreme/y. Perhaps I have been to
some extent deluded, as he manifestly ranks too high what I
have done.
"I am delighted to hear that you spend so much time
out-of-doors and in your garden. From Newman's old book
(I forget title) about the country near Godalming, it must be
charming.
" We have just returned home after spending five weeks
on Ullswater. The scenery is quite charming, but I cannot
walk, and everything tries me, even seeing scenery, talking
with any one, or reading much. What I shall do with my
few remaining years of life I can hardly tell. I have everything to make me happy and contented, but life has become
very wearysome to me. I heard lately from Miss Buckley
in relation to Lyell's Life, and she mentioned that you were
thinking of Switzerland, which I should think and hope that
you would enjoy much.
" I see that you are going to write on the most difficult
political question, the land. Something ought to be done,
but what is the rub. I hope that you will (not) turn renegade
to natural history; but I suppose that politics are very
tempting.
"With all good wishes for yourself and family,
Believe me, my dear Wallace,
"Yours very sincerely,
" CHARLES DARWIN."
This letter is, to me, perhaps the most interesting I ever
received from Darwin, since it shows that it was only the
engrossing interests of his scientific and literary work, performed under the drawback of almost constant ill-health,
that prevented him from taking a more active part in the
discussion of those social and political questions that so

MY LIFE
[CHAP.
deeply affect the lives and happiness of the great bulk of the
people. It is a great satisfaction that his last letter to me,
written within nine months of his death, and terminating a
correspondence which had extended over a quarter of a
century, should be so cordial, so sympathetic, and broadminded.
In 1870 he had written to me, "I hope it is a satisfaction
to you to reflect-and very few things in my life have been
more satisfactory to me --that we have never felt any jealousy
towards each other, though in some sense rivals. I believe
I can say this of myself with truth, and I am absolutely sure
that it is true of you." The above long letter will show that
this friendly feeling was retained by him to the last, and to
have thus inspired and retained it, notwithstanding our many
differences of opinion, I feel to be one of the greatest honours
of my life. I have myself given an estimate of Darwin's work
in my " Debt of Science to Darwin," published in my " Natural
Selection and Tropical Nature," in I89i. But I cannot here
refrain from quoting a passage from Huxley's striking
obituary notice in Nature, summing up his work in a single
short paragraph: "None have fought better, and none
have been more fortunate than Charles Darwin. He found
a great truth, trodden underfoot, reviled by bigots, and
ridiculed by all the world; he lived long enough to see it,
chiefly by his own efforts, irrefragably established in science,
inseparably incorporated with the common thoughts of men,
and only hated and feared by those who would revile but
dare not. What shall a man desire more than this?"
The Chief Differences of Opinion between Darwin and
myself.-As this subject is often referred to by objectors to
the theory of natural selection, and it is sometimes stated
that I have myself given up the most essential parts of that
theory, I think it will be advisable to give a short statement
of what those differences really are, and how they affect the
theory in question. Our only important differences were on
four subjects, which may be considered separately.
I. The Origin of Man as an Intellectual and Moral

xxv]

DARWIN

17

Being.-On this great problem the belief and teaching of

Darwin was, that man's whole nature-physical, mental,

intellectual, and moral-was developed from the lower animals

by means of the same laws of variation and survival; and, as

a consequence of this belief, that there was no difference in

kind between man's nature and animal nature, but only one

of degree. My view, on the other hand, was, and is, that

there is a difference in kind, intellectually and morally,

between man and other animals; and that while his body

was undoubtedly developed by the continuous modification

of some ancestral animal form, some different agency,

analogous to that which first produced organic life, and then

originated consciousness, came into play in order to develop

the higher intellectual and spiritual nature of man. This

view was first intimated in the last sentence of my paper

on the "Development of Human Races under Natural Selection," in I864, and more fully treated in the last chapter of

my "Essays," in 1870.

These views caused much distress of mind to Darwin,

but, as I have shown, they do not in the least affect the

general doctrine of natural selection. It might be as well

urged that because man has produced the pouter-pigeon,.

the bull-dog, and the dray-horse, none of which could have

been produced by natural selection alone, therefore the

agency of natural selection is weakened or disproved.

Neither, I urge, is it weakened or disproved if my theory

of the origin of man is the true one.

2. Sexua SeSelection through Female Choice.-Darwin's

theory of sexual selection consists of two quite distinct

parts-the combats of males so common among polygamous

mammals and birds, and the choice of more musical or

more ornamental male birds by the females. The first is

an observed fact, and the development of weapons such as

horns, canine teeth, spurs, etc., is a result of natural selection

acting through such combats. The second is an inference

from the observed facts of the display of the male plumage

or ornaments; but the statement that ornaments have been

developed by the female's choice of the most beautiful male

VOL. II.               C

I8
MY LIFE
[CHAP
because he is the most beautiful, is an inference supported by
singularly little evidence. The first kind of sexual selection
I hold as strongly and as thoroughly as Darwin himself; the
latter I at first accepted, following Darwin's conclusions
from what appeared to be strong evidence explicable
in no other way; but I soon came to doubt the possibility
of such an explanation, at first from considering the fact that
in butterflies sexual differences are as strongly marked as in
birds, and it was to me impossible to accept female choice in
their case, while, as the whole question of colour came to be
better understood, I saw equally valid reasons for its total
rejection even in birds and mammalia.
But here my view really extends the influence of natural
selection, because I show in how many unsuspected ways
colour and marking is of use to its possessor. I first stated
my objections to "female choice" in my review of the
"Descent of Man" (I871), and more fully developed it in my
"Tropical Nature" (1878), while in my "Darwinism" (I889),
I again discussed the whole subject, giving the results of more
mature consideration. I had, however, already discussed the
matter at some length with Darwin, and in a letter of
September I8, 1869, I gave him my general argument as
follows:"I have a general and a special argument to submit.
". Female birds and insects are usually exposed to more
danger than the male, and in the case of insects their existence is necessary for a longer period. They therefore require,
in some way or other, an increased amount of protection.
"2. If the male and female were distinct species, with
different habits and organizations, you would, I think, admit
that a difference of colour, serving to make that one less
conspicuous which evidently required more protection than
the other, had been acquired by natural selection.
"3. But you admit that variations appearing in one sex
are (sometimes) transmitted to that sex only. There is,
therefore, nothing to prevent natural selection acting on the
two sexes as if they were two species.
"4. Your objection that the same protection would, to a

XXV]
DARWIN
19
certain extent, be useful to the male seems to me quite unsound, and directly opposed to your own doctrine so convincingly urged in the 'Origin,' that natural selection never
improves an animal beyond its needs. Admitting, therefore,
abundant variation of colour in both sexes, it is impossible
that the male can be brought by natural selection to
resemble the female (unless such variations are always
transmitted), because the difference in their colours is for
the purpose of making up for their different organization
and habits, and natural selection cannot give to the male
more protection than he requires, which is less than in the
female.
" 5. The striking fact that in allprotected groups the females
usually resemble the males (or are equally brightly coloured)
shows that the usual tendency is to transmit colour to both
sexes when it is not injurious to either.
" Now for the special argument.
"6. In the very weak-flying Leptalis both sexes mimic
Heliconidae. But in the much stronger-flying Papilio, Pieris,
and Diadema, it is the female only that mimics the protected
group, and in these cases the females often acquire brighter
and more conspicuous colours than the male.
" 7. No case is known of a male Papilio, Pieris, or Diadema,
alone, mimicking a protected species; yet colour is more
frequent in males, and variations are always ready for the
purpose of sexual or other forms of selection.
"8. The fair inference seems to be that each species, and
also each sex, can only be modified by selection just as far
as is absolutely necessary-not a step further. A male,
being by structure and habits less exposed to danger, and
therefore requiring less protection than the female, cannot
have an equal amount of protection given to it by natural
selection; but the female must have some extra protection to
balance her greater exposure to danger, and she rapidly
acquires it in one way or another.
" 9. The objection as to male fish, which seem to require
protection, yet have sometimes bright colours, seems to me
of no more weight than is the existence of some unprotected

20
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
species of white Leptalis as a disproof of Bates' theory of
mimicry,-or that only a few species of butterfly resemble
leaves,-or that the habits and instincts that protect one
animal are absent in allied species. These are all illustrations of the many and varied ways in which nature works to
give the exact amount of protection it needs to each species."
3. Arctic Plants in the Southern Hemisphere, and on
Isolated Mountain-tops within the Tropics.-Having paid great
attention to the whole question of the distribution of organisms, I was obliged to reject Mr. Darwin's explanation of the
above phenomena by a cooling of the tropical lowlands of the
whole earth during the glacial period to such an extent as to
allow large numbers of north-temperate and Arctic plants to
spread across the continents to the southern hemisphere, and,
as the cold passed away, to ascend to the summits of isolated
tropical mountains. The study of the floras of oceanic
islands having led me to the conclusion that the greater part
of their flora was derived by aerial transmission of seeds,
either by birds or by gales and storms, I extended this view
to the transmission along mountain ranges, and from
mountain-top to mountain-top, as being most accordant with
the facts at our disposal. I explained my views at some
length in "Island Life," and later, with additional facts, in
"Darwinism."
The difficulties in the way of Darwin's view are twofold.
First, that a lowering of temperature of inter-tropical lowlands to the required extent would inevitably have destroyed
much of the overwhelming luxuriances and variety of plant,
insect, and bird life that characterize those regions. This
has so impressed myself, Bates, and others familiar with the
tropics as to render the idea wholly inconceivable; and the
only reason why Darwin did not feel this appears to be that
he really knew nothing personally of the tropics beyond a
few days at Bahia and Rio, and could have had no conception
of its wonderfully rich and highly specialized fauna and flora.
In the second place, even if a sufficient lowering of temperature had occurred during the ice-age, it would not account for

xxv]
DARWIN
21
the facts, which involve, as Sir Joseph Hooker remarks, "a
continuous current of vegetation from north to south," going
much further back than the glacial period, because it has led
to the transmission not of existing species only, but of distinct
representative species, and even distinct genera, showing that
the process must have been going on long before the cold
period. The reason why Darwin was unaffected by these
various difficulties may perhaps be found in the circumstance
that he had held his views for so many years almost un
challenged. In a letter to Sir Charles Lyell, in I866, he
says, "I feel a strong conviction that soon every one will
believe that the whole world was cooler during the glacial
period. Remember Hooker's wonderful case recently discovered of the identity of so many temperate plants on the
summit of Fernando Po, and on the mountains of Abyssinia.
I look at it as certain that these plants crossed the whole of
Africa, from east to west, during the same period. I wish I
had published a long chapter, written in full, and almost ready
for the press, on this subject which I wrote ten years ago.
It was impossible in the 'Origin' to give a fair abstract"
(" More Letters," vol. i. p. 476). Having thus held his views
for twenty-five years, they had become so firmly impressed
upon his mind that he was unable at once to give them up,
however strong might be the arguments against them. This
particular difference, however, is not one which in any way
affects the theory of natural selection.
4. Pangenesis, and the Heredity of Acquired Characters.
-Darwin always believed in the inheritance of acquired
characters, such as the effects of use and disuse of organs and
of climate, food, etc., on the individual, as did almost every
naturalist, and his theory of pangenesis was invented to
explain this among other affects of heredity. I therefore
accepted pangenesis at first, because I have always felt it
a relief (as did Darwin) to have some hypothesis, however
provisional and improbable, that would serve to explain the
facts; and I told him that " I shall never be able to give it
up till a better one supplies its place." I never imagined

22
MY LIFE
[CHAP. XXV]
that it could be directly disproved, but Mr. F. Galton's
experiments of transfusing a large quantity of the blood of
rabbits into other individuals of quite different breeds, and
afterwards finding that the progeny was not in the slightest
degree altered, did seem to me to be very nearly a disproof,
although Darwin did not accept it as such. But when, at
a much later period, Dr. Weismann showed that there is
actually no valid evidence for the transmission of such
characters, and when he further set forth a mass of evidence
in support of his theory of the continuity of the germ-plasm,
the "better theory " was found, and I finally gave up pangenesis as untenable. But this new theory really simplifies
and strengthens the fundamental doctrine of natural selection.
It will thus appear that none of my differences of opinion
from Darwin imply any real divergence as to the overwhelming importance of the great principle of natural
selection, while in several directions I believe that I have
extended and strengthened it The principle of "utility,"
which is one of its chief foundation-stones, I have always
advocated unreservedly; while in extending this principle
to almost every kind and degree of coloration, and in
maintaining the power of natural selection to increase the
infertility of hybrid unions, I have considerably extended
its range. Hence it is that some of my critics declare that
I am more Darwinian than Darwin himself, and in this, I
admit, they are not far wrong.

CHAPTER XXVI
MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-SPENCER, HUXLEY,
MIVART, ETC.
SOON after my return home, in 1862 or 1863, Bates and
I, having both read " First Principles " and been immensely
impressed by it, went together to call on Herbert Spencer,
I think by appointment. Our thoughts were full of the
great unsolved problem of the origin of life-a problem
which Darwin's " Origin of Species " left in as much obscurity
as ever-and we looked to Spencer as the one man living
who could give us some clue to it. His wonderful exposition
of the fundamental laws and conditions, actions and interactions of the material universe seemed to penetrate so
deeply into that "nature of things" after which the early
philosophers searched in vain and whose blind gropings are
so finely expressed in the grand poem of Lucretius, that we
both hoped he could throw some light on that great problem
of problems. I forget the details of the interview, but I
think Bates was chief spokesman, and expressed our immense
admiration of his work, and that as young students of nature
we wished to have the honour of his acquaintance. He was
very pleasant, spoke appreciatively of what we had both
done for the practical exposition of evolution, and hoped
we would continue to work at the subject. But when we
ventured to touch upon the great problem, and whether he
had arrived at even one of the first steps towards its solution,
our hopes were dashed at once. That, he said, was too fundamental a problem to even think of solving at present. We
did not yet know enough of matter in its essential constitution
nor of the various forces of nature; and all he could say was
23

24
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
that everything pointed to its having been a development
out of matter-a phase of that continuous process of evolution
by which the whole universe had been brought to its present
condition. So we had to wait and work contentedly at
minor problems. And now, after forty years, though
Spencer and Darwin and Weismann have thrown floods of
light on the phenomena of life, its essential nature and its
origin remain as great a mystery as ever. Whatever light
we do possess is from a source which Spencer and Darwin
neglected or ignored.
In i865, when Spencer was, I believe, one of the editors
of The Reader, he asked me to write an article on the treatment of savage races, with special reference to some cases of
the barbarity of settlers in Australia that had recently been
published. This I did, and the article appeared in the issue
of June I7. Ten years later, on November 13, i875, he wrote
to ask me where and when this article had appeared, adding,
" I ask the question because I contemplate giving Dr.
Bridges a castigation for the unwarranted sneer at the close
of his article in the Fortnightly." I may add that I have
reprinted my article (with some additions referring to recent
facts) in my "Studies Scientific and Social," vol. ii. p. io7.
The first letter I received from Spencer was when I sent
him my paper on "' The Origin of Human Races under the
Law of Natural Selection." He said that he had read it
with great interest, and added, " Its leading idea is, I think,
undoubtedly true, concluding with a hope that I would
pursue the inquiry.
Soon afterwards he invited me to dine with him in Bayswater, where he lived for many years in a boarding-house with
rather a commonplace set of people-retired Indian officers
and others; and I afterwards visited him there several times.
I was amused when some popular error was solemnly put
forth at dinner as the explanation of some phenomenon;
Spencer would coolly tell them that it was quite incorrect,
and then proceed to explain why it was'so, and on principles
of evolution could not be otherwise. In the evening, after we

XXVI]
HERBERT SPENCER
25
had had a little private conversation, we would go into the
drawing-room where there was music, and Spencer would
sometimes play on his flute. On remarking to him one day
that I wondered he could live among such unintellectual
people, he said that he had purposely chosen such a home in
order to avoid the mental excitement of too much interesting
conversation; that he suffered greatly from insomnia, and
that he found that when his evenings were spent in commonplace conversation, hearing the news of the day or taking
part in a little music, he had a better chance of sleeping.
In the autumn of i867 I read the Duke of Argyll's
"Reign of Law," and though I found much that was
erroneous and weak in argument, I thought his discussion
of the mode of flight in birds, founded largely on personal
observation, was very good; in fact, the best I had seen.
Spencer had also read this, and differed from me, thinking
that important parts of the duke's theory of flight was not
true, because they would not apply equally to bats; and we
had quite a discussion on the subject. The next day, after
thinking the matter over, I wrote him a long letter of eight
pages, trying to show that the general principles of flight
in birds, bats, and insects were the same; but that in birds
there were additional special adaptations that render their
flight more perfect, and their power of motion through the
air, under adverse conditions, more varied and more complete.
The duke, dealing with birds only, had dwelt most on these
special adaptations (chiefly, if I remember, the beautiful
overlapping and movements of the separate feathers increasing resistance during the downward, and decreasing it during
the upward stroke) which did not exist in bats or in insects.
I also showed that although this adaptation was absent in
the wings of insects, the general form and movements of the
wings were similar and produced similar, but not identical
results. In his reply he admitted the accuracy of my
description of the flight of insects, but made the following
remark in furtherance of his former objection as regards the
duke's account of the flight of birds: " If you will move
an outstretched wing backwards and forwards with equal

26
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
velocity, I think you will find that the difference of resistance is nothing like commensurate with the difference
of size between the muscles that raise the wings and the
muscles that depress them." The reason of this great
difference could not be accurately explained at that time,
but a few years later, Marey, by his ingenious experiments
and photographs, showed that while the whole upward
motion of the wing is very gradual, the downward stroke,
though equally gradual at the beginning and the end, is two
or three times as rapid in the middle, thus giving the great
upward and onward impulse, necessitating the extremely
large muscles noted by Spencer. An excellent short account
of the whole mechanism of the flight of birds, with many of
Marey's diagrams and illustrations, is given in Professor
A. Newton's "Dictionary of Birds," in the article "Flight,"
and is the clearest exposition of the subject I have yet seen.
In 1872, in my presidential address to the Entomological
Society, I endeavoured to expound Herbert Spencer's theory
of the origin of insects, on the view that they are fundamentally compound animals, each segment representing one
of the original independent organisms. This theory is expounded at some length in the second volume of his
"Principles of Biology" (chapter iv., "The Morphological
Composition of Animals "), but had apparently been almost
unnoticed by English entomologists. On sending him a
copy of the address, he wrote to me as follows: "It is
gratifying to me to find that your extended knowledge
does not lead you to scepticism respecting the speculation
of mine which you quote, but rather enables you to cite
further facts in justification of it. Possibly your exposition
will lead some of those, in whose lines of investigation the
question lies, to give deliberate attention to it."
This communication gave me much pleasure, because the
subject was one quite out of my own domain, and though I
had taken a good deal of trouble to understand his views and
to represent them accurately, and had also adduced a few
additional facts in support of it, yet the subject was so novel
and so complex that I was rather afraid I might have made

xxvI]
HERBERT SPENCER
27
some blunders in my abstract of it. I was much relieved,
therefore, to find that my account of his views was satisfactory
to him.
In I874, when writing "The Principles of Sociology,"
Herbert Spencer asked me to look over the proofs of the
first six chapters, and give him the benefit of my criticisms,
"alike as naturalist, anthropologist, and 'traveller." I found
very little indeed requiring emendation, but I sent him a
couple of pages of notes with suggestions on points of detail,
which, I believe, were of some use to him.
During the year I88 I had several letters from him,
dealing with subjects of general interest. In consequence
of an article I wrote on " How to Nationalize the Land,"
especially showing how to avoid the supposed insuperable
objection of State management, a "Land Nationalization
Society" was formed, of which I was chosen president. As
I had been induced to study the question by Herbert
Spencer's early volume on "Social Statics," I sent him a
copy of our programme and asked if he would join us. His
reply is very instructive, as showing how nearly he agreed
with us at that time, and also how slight were the difficulties
he suggested as the most important.
The letter is as follows:" 38, Queen's Gardens, Bayswater, W.,
"April 25, I88I.
"DEAR MR. WALLACE,
"As you may suppose, I fully sympathize in the
general aims of your proposed Land Nationalization Society;
but for sundry reasons I hesitate to commit myself, at the
present stage of the question, to a programme so definite as
that which you send me. It seems to me that before formulatingthe idea in a specific shape, it is needful to generate
a body of public opinion on the general issue, and that it
must be some time before there can be produced such
recognition of the general principle involved as is needful
before definite plans can be set forth to any purpose.

28
MY LIFE
[CHAP,.
"It seems to me that the thing to be done at present is
to arouse public attention to (I) the abstract inequity of the
present condition of things; (2) to show that even now there
is in our law a tacit denial of absolute private ownership,
since the State reserves the power of resuming possession of
land on making compensation; (3) that this tacitly admitted
ownership ought to be overtly asserted; (4) and that having
been overtly asserted, the landowner should be distinctly
placed in the position of a tenant of the State on something
like the terms proposed in your scheme: namely, that while
the land itself should be regarded as public property, such
value as has been given to it should vest in the existing
so-called owner.
"The question is surrounded with such difficulties that I
fear anything like a specific scheme for resumption by the
State will tend, by the objections made, to prevent recognition of a general truth which might otherwise be admitted.
For example, in definitely making the proposed distinction
between 'inherent value as dependent on natural conditions,
etc.,' and the 'increased value given by the owner,' there is
raised the questions-How are the two to be distinguished?
How far back are we to go in taking account of the labour
and money expended in giving fertility? In respect of newly
enclosed tracts, some estimation may be made; but in respect
of the greater part, long reduced to cultivation, I do not see
how the valuations, differing in all cases, are to be made.
"I name this as one point; and there are many others in
respect of which I do not see my way. It appears to me
that at present we are far off from the time at which action
may advantageously be taken.
"Truly yours,
"HERBERT SPENCER."
On this I may remark that, during the twenty-five years
that has elapsed, the Land Nationalization Society has been
continuously at work, doing the very things that our critic
seemed to think ought to be done before we formed the
society. We have now " generated a body of public opinion "

xxvI]
HERBERT SPENCERR
29
in our favour, which could hardly have been effected without
the work of a society, and we have long since satisfied most
thinking men that the special difficulty as to the valuation
of the owners' improvements is a purely imaginary one, since
it is continually done. But the remarkable thing is, that only
ten years later, in his volume on "Justice," the writer of this
letter should have so far changed his opinions as to arrive
ultimately at the conclusion thus stated: "A fuller consideration of the matter has led me to the conclusion that individual
ownership, subject to State suzerainty, should be maintained."
Those who care to understand what were the supposed facts
leading to this most impotent conclusion, will find them
stated and exposed in vol. ii., chap. xviii. of my " Studies." 1
They were first given in an address to the Land Nationalization Society in I892.
A few months later he wrote me again on the land
question, in reply to my recommendation of Henry George's
book "Progress and Poverty," and this letter, as exhibiting
his ideas on human progress generally, and also his somewhat
hasty judgments on particular writers, seems well worthy of
preservation, and I therefore give it verbatim.
" 38, Queen's Gardens, Bayswater, July 6, I88I.
"DEAR MR. WALLACE,
" I have already seen the work you name-' Progress and Poverty;' having had a copy, or rather two copies,
sent me. I gathered, from what little I glanced at, that I
should fundamentally disagree with the writer, and have not
read more.
"I demur entirely to the supposition, which is implied in
the book, that, by any possible social arrangements whatever,
the distress which humanity has had to suffer in the course of
civilization could have been prevented. The whole process,
1 H. Spencer's treatment of the land question in this work is criticized
and controverted in great detail by Henry George in " A Perplexed Philosopher,'
published in I893. Neither H. Spencer nor any of his disciples have refuted
these destructive criticisms.

30
MY LIFE
CHAP.
with all its horrors and tyrannies, and slaveries and abominations of all kinds, has been an inevitable one accompanying
the survival and spread of the strongest, and the consolidation
of small tribes into large societies; and among other things,
the lapse of land into private ownership has been, like the
lapse of individuals into slavery, at one period of the process
altogether indispensable. I do not in the least believe that
from the primitive system of communistic ownership to a high
and finished system of State ownership, such as we may
look for in the future, there could be any transition without
passing through such stages as we have seen, and which
exist now.
"Argument aside, however, I should be disinclined to
commit myself to any scheme of immediate action, which, as
I have indicated to you, I believe, at present, premature.
For myself, I feel that I have to consider not only what I
may do on special questions, but also how the action I take
on special questions may affect my general influence; and
I am disinclined to give more handles against me than are
needful. Already, as you will see by the enclosed circular, I
am doing in the way of positive action more than may be
altogether prudent.
"Sincerely yours,
"HERBERT SPENCER."
I do not remember, and I do not think that Henry George
either stated or implied that the course of civilization " might
have been different" from what it has been. His whole work
was devoted to showing the injustice and the evils of private
property in land, just as Herbert Spencer himself had done
in " Social Statics;" and both works are alike beneficial, inasmuch as they demonstrate these facts and serve as incentives
and guides for our future attempts to remedy them. If Mr.
Spencer had not hastily laid aside the book, owing to this
prepossession against it, even he might have been benefited
by the thorough examination of the whole subject which
Mr. George gave, while he could hardly have failed to
admire its admirable and forcible exposition of the problem

XXVI]
HERBERT SPENCER
3I
and his often eloquent delineations of its results. I remember
that some years earlier, when I asked Herbert Spencer what
he thought of Buckle's " History of Civilization," which I took
for granted that he had read, his reply was somewhat similar
to that here given in the case of Henry George-that on
looking into the book he saw that its fundamental assumption
was erroneous, and therefore he did not care to read it. I
believe he referred to Buckle's view of the immense influence
of the aspects of nature in influencing human character, which,
even if much exaggerated, cannot be said to be wholly untrue,
and certainly does not destroy the value of a work of such
research, eloquence, and illumination as the " History of
Civilization."
The next letter of much interest I have from Herbert
Spencer is, when acknowledging receipt of a copy of my little
book, entitled "Bad Times," on November 2I, I885. In it
he says, " Much of what I read I quite agreed with, especially
the chapters on ' Foreign Loans' and ' War Expenditure.'...
There is one factor which seems to me not an improbable
one, which neither you nor any others have taken account of.
During the past generation, one of the causes of the great
exaltation of prosperity has been the development of the
railway system, which while it had the effect of opening up
sources of supply and means of distribution, had also the
effect during a long period of greatly exalting certain industries concerned in construction. There was consequently
a somewhat abnormal degree of prosperity, which lasted long
enough to furnish a standard of good times, and to be mistaken for the normal condition. Now that this unusual and
temporary cause of prosperity has in considerable measure
diminished, we are feeling the effect."
This was no doubt true, and in the case of America I
had adduced the railway mania in the United States, from
I869 to 1873, and our own over-production of shipping
while we were supplying the whole world with rails and
engines, as causes of the subsequent depression in both
countries.

32
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
The last three letters I received from Herbert Spencer
were in I894 and I895, all on the subject of what he termed
"the absurdity of Lord Salisbury's representation of the
process of natural selection" in his British Association
address at Oxford, wishing me to write to the Times, pointing out his errors, which were influencing many persons and
writers in the press, and suggesting certain points I should
especially deal with. He concluded, " It behoves you of all
men to take up the gauntlet he has thus thrown down." I
replied, declining the task, on the ground that I did not think
Lord Salisbury's influence in a matter of science of much
importance, and that I thought my time better employed
in writing such articles on social and political, as well as
general scientific questions which then interested me. To
this he replied that he did not at all agree with me, and that
" articles in the papers show that Lord Salisbury's argument
is received with triumph, and unless it is disposed of, it will
lead to a public reaction against the doctrine of evolution at
large."
As I still declined to go into this controversy, having
dealt with the whole matter in my "Darwinism," and still
being sceptical as to any great effects being produced by the
address in question, he wrote me a month later as follows:
"As I cannot get you to deal with Lord Salisbury, I have
decided to do it myself, having been finally exasperated into
doing it by this honour paid to his address in France-the
presentation of a translation to the French Academy. The
impression produced upon some millions of people in England
cannot be allowed to be thus further confirmed without protest." He then asked me for some references, which I sent
him, and his criticism of Lord Salisbury duly appeared, and
was thoroughly well done, so that I had no reason to regret
not having undertaken it myself. This was the latest letter I
received from him; but during his last illness my wife, being
in Brighton, called to make inquiries after his health, and left
our cards, and I received a kindly expressed card in reply,
written by his amanuensis, but signed with his own initials.
It is dated November 28, I903, ten days before his death.

XXVI]

HERBERT SPENCER

33

Among his intimate friends, Herbert Spencer was always

interesting from the often unexpected way in which he would

apply the principles of evolution to the commonest topics of

conversation, and he was always ready to take part in any

social amusement. He once or twice honoured me by coming

to informal meetings of friends at my little house in St. Mark's

Crescent, and I also met him at Sir John Lubbock's very

pleasant week-end visits, and also at Huxley's, in St. John's

Wood. Once I remember dining informally with Huxley,

the only other guests being Tyndall and Herbert Spencer.

The latter appeared in a dress-coat, whereupon Huxley and

Tyndall chaffed him, as setting a bad example, and of being

untrue to his principles, quoting his Essay on "Manners and

Fashion," but all with the most good-humoured banter.

Spencer took it in good part, and defended himself well,

declaring that the coat was a relic of his early unregenerate

days, and where could he wear it out if not at the houses of

his best friends? " Besides," he concluded, "you will please

to observe that I amp true to principle in that I do not wear a

white tie! "

Those who are acquainted only with the volumes of

Herbert Spencer's " Synthetic Philosophy " can have no idea

of the lightness, the energy, and the bright satire of some

of his more popular writings. Such are many of his earlier

Essays, and in his volume on " The Study of Sociology " we

find abundant examples of these qualities. In conclusion,

I may remark that, although I differ greatly from him on

certain important matters, both of natural and social science,

and have never hesitated to state my reasons for those

differences with whatever force of fact and argument I could

bring to bear upon them, I yet look upon these as but spots

on the sun of his great intellectual powers, and feel it to be

an honour to have been his contemporary, and, to a limited

extent, his friend and coadjutor.

With the remainder of my scientific friends I had, for the

most part, only social intercourse, with no correspondence of

general interest. Those I saw most of during my residence

VOL. II.         D

34
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
in London, and with whom I became most intimate, were
Huxley, Tyndall, Sir John Lubbock, Dr. W. B. Carpenter,
Sir William Crookes, Sir Joseph Hooker, Mr. Francis Galton,
Professor Alfred Newton, Dr. P. L. Slater, Mr. St. George
Mivart, Sir William Flower, Sir Norman Lockyer, Professor
R. Meldola, and many others whose names are only known
to specialists. All these I met very frequently at scientific
meetings, or at some of their houses at which I was occasionally a guest. To all of them I have been more or less
indebted for valuable information or useful suggestions in the
course of my work, and to these I must also add Professor
E. B. Poulton, of Oxford; F. W. H. Myers, Professors W. F.
Barrett and Percival Wright, of Dublin, with Professors
Patrick Geddes, of Edinburgh, and J. A. Thomson, of Aberdeen. For the last quarter of a century I have lived so
completely in the country that I have ceased to have personal
intercourse with most of them; and of those still among us,
I can only say here that I hope and believe they all continue
to be my very good friends. In future chapters I may have
to refer to some of them again, in connection with special
conditions of my life. Here I will only give a few indications
as to my personal relations with a few of them.
Of all those I have mentioned I became, I think, most
intimate with Huxley. At an early date after my return
home he asked me to his house in Marlborough Place, where
I soon became very friendly with his children, then all quite
young, all very animated, and not at all shy. Mrs. Huxley
was also exceedingly kind and pleasant, and the whole
domestic tone of the house was such as to make me quite
at my ease, which is what happens to me with only a few
persons. I used often to go there on Sunday afternoons, or
to spend the evening, while I was several times asked to dine
to meet persons of similar pursuits to my own. One of those
occasions that I particularly remember was to meet Dr.
Miklucho Maklay, a Russian anthropologist, who was going
to New Guinea, and as I was the only Englishman who had
lived some months alone in that country, Huxley thought
we should be interested with each other.

XXVI]
HUXLEY
35
Maklay was a small, wiry man, somewhat younger than
myself; he spoke English well, and told us all about what
he was going to do. His idea was that you could really
learn nothing about natives unless you lived with them and
became almost one of themselves; above all, you must win
their confidence, and must therefore begin by trusting them
absolutely. He proposed to go in a Russian warship, and
be left for a year at some part of the north coast where
Europeans were wholly unknown, with one servant, but without visible arms. This was, I think, in the winter of I870-71.
Both Huxley and myself thought this plan exceedingly risky,
but he determined to try it; and he succeeded, but through
the exercise of an amount of coolness and courage which very
few men indeed possess. He returned to Russia to complete
his preparations, and in September, I87I, was landed in
Astrolabe Bay with two servants, one a Swede and the other
a Polynesian. The ship's carpenter built him a small hut,
fourteen feet by seven feet, and then the ship sailed away
and left him totally unprotected. As soon as it was seen
that the ship was completely out of sight, large numbers of
natives, armed with knives, bows, and spears, gathered round
his hut and soon began to make warlike demonstrations,
which went on more or less for some days. They would
shoot arrows close to his head or body, or draw their bow
to the full with the arrow directed to his chest, and then
loose the string with a twang, while holding back the arrow;
but he sat still and smiled, knowing, I suppose, that if they
really meant to kill him that was hardly the way they would
do it, and that in any case he could not possibly escape
them. At other times they would run at him with their
spears, or press the spear-point against his teeth till he was
forced to open his mouth. But finding that he was brave,
that he did not try to escape them, and also finding that he
was a "medicine" man, could heal their wounds and cure
the sick, they gradually came to consider him as a friend
and even as a supernatural being. Soon one servant died,
and the other was almost constantly ill, so that the doctor
had plenty to do; but he lived with these people for fifteen

36
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
months, learnt their language, studied them minutely, and
explored much of the surrounding country. I know of no
more daring feat by any traveller. A short account of this
exploration is given in Nature, vol. ix. p. 328.
I used often to call in at Jermyn Street if I had any
question to ask Huxley, and he was always ready to give
me all the information in his power; while I am pretty sure
I owe partly, if not largely, to his influence the grant of the
royal medal of the Royal Society, and perhaps also of the
Darwin medal. Once only there was a partial disturbance
of our friendly relations, of the exact cause of which I have
no record or recollection. I had published some paper in
which, I believe, I had stated some view which he had
originated without mentioning his name, and in such a way
as to leave the impression that I put it forth as original.
This I had no notion of doing; but I think it was an idea
which had become quite familiar to me, and that I had quite
forgotten who originated it. I fancy some one must have
called Huxley's attention to it, and when I next met him, I
think just as he was leaving Jermyn Street to go home, he
was much put out, and said something intimating that after
what I had said in this paper, he wondered at my speaking
to him again. I forget what more was said, but on going
home I looked at the article, and found that I had used
some expression that might be interpreted as a slight to
him. I immediately wrote a letter of explanation and
regret, and I here give his reply, which greatly relieved
me, and our relations at once resumed their usual friendly
character.
"MY DEAR WALLACE,
" Very many thanks for your kind letter.
"I am exceedingly callous to the proceedings of my
enemies, but (I suppose by way of compensation) I am very
sensitive to those of valued friends, and I certainly felt rather
sore when I read your paper. But I dare say I should have
'consumed my own smoke' in that matter as I do in most,
if I had not been very tired, very hungry, very cold, and

XXVII

HUXTIEY

37

consequently very irritable, when I met you yesterday. Pray

forgive me if I was too plain spoken,

"And believe me, as always,

"Yours very faithfully,

"T. H. HUXLEY.

"Jermyn Street, February 14, I870."

In a letter he wrote me, in I88I, on another matter he

refers to my former intimacy with his children. " Your little

friends are grown to be big friends. Two are married, and

one has made me a grandfather. Leonard, my eldest boy,

is six feet high, and at Balliol; even the smallest of the

mites you knew is taller than her mother. All within reach

unite with me in kindest regards and remembrances."

In I891 I had read two books by Mr. Arthur J. Bell, a

Devonshire gentleman who had devoted himself to the study

of the modern physical sciences in their relation to the

deepest problems of our nature and destiny. The first was

entitled, "Whence comes Man, from 'Nature' or from 'God'?"

The second, published two years after the first, as a sequel

to it, was called, "Why does Man Exist?"  I was greatly

struck with the power of reasoning, the clearness of style,

and the broad grasp of the whole subject displayed by the

author, and having written to him to say how much I had

enjoyed his books, he called upon me at Parkstone, and in

the course of conversation he expressed a great desire that

Huxley should be induced to read them-at all events the

second, which, though a sequel to the first, is quite independent

of it.1 I therefore wrote to Huxley, telling him the author

1 As I am sure that there are many persons who have never heard of these

books who would greatly enjoy them, I will here quote the subject-matter of the

second as stated in the last page of the first work, as follows:'"Before replying to the question with which we started-the question,

Whence comes Man,from " Nature " or from " God "?'-we must, I think, state

what man is.

"As it seems to me, man is the highest development of the ' Power' called

'Life'-a Power added, at a comparatively late period of geological time, to

Powers already existing.

" To the question, then, 'Whence comes man; does he come from Nature or

from God?' we must, I think, reply that not only man, but Nature also, owe

38

MY LIFE

[CHAP.

would be pleased to send him the books if he would like to

have them, and in that case would be glad if he would give

his opinion of the work. His reply, dated November 23,

I89X, is a characteristic example of his style, and as it is

also the last letter of his I possess, I here reproduce it.

"Hodeshea, Eastbourne.

"MY DEAR WALLACE,

" The instinct of self-preservation leads me, as a

rule, to decline to read and still more to give an opinion

about books that are sent to me.      But, then, they do not

usually come with such a recommendation as yours, and if

your friend Mr. Bell is kind enough to send me a copy of

his book, I will not only read it, but pay him the highest

compliment in my power, by doing my best to pick holes in

it! I 'can't say no fairer.'

their existence to the Infinite Eternal Being-God, who 'created' all things."

Then follows the striking passage which he reprints as the " Argument " of the

second work, " Why does Man Exist? "

C ARGUMENT.

"Supposing these answers to be accepted, other questions suggest themselves.

We want to know why man exists. We want to know why God 'created' him.

Did God desire that man should be good? Is there any reason why he should

be good? If there be, then why does evil exist? And there arises also the

further question, that, supposing there be a good reason why man should be good,

is goodness possible to him? If his character be made for him, not by him, how

can he be good if his character, which he did not make himself, be not good?

Does his existence terminate at death? Does he come into the world only for

the sake of what he therein does-suffers-enjoys? or is his existence continued

after death? Is that existence, if it be continued after death, to be desired or to

be dreaded? Is the having been born a misfortune or a blessing? What is the

character of God? Is He a Being to be feared-to be hated --or to be loved?

What are man's relations to his fellow-man? What are man's relations to Godthat awful Being whose power over us seems to be absolute? And that last, most

terrible of questions, Is man's existence owing to God's malevolence-to His

indifference-or to His love? "

Here are surely subjects enough for a volume of 420 pages, and Mr. Bell

discusses them all thoroughly and honestly, with wonderful knowledge and

sagacity, with sound logic, and in clear, forcible, and often brilliant language.

And he arrives at a grand --a magnificent conclusion-a conclusion that comes as

near to a satisfactory solution of these seemingly insoluble problems as with our

limited faculties we can attain to.

XXVI]
HUXLEY
39
" I get along very well under condition of keeping quiet
here, and I am happy to say that my wife, who joins with
me in kind remembrances, has greatly improved in health
since we settled here.
"Ever yours very faithfully,
"T. H. HUXLEY."
Although Huxley was as kind and genial a friend and
companion as Darwin himself, and that I was quite at ease
with him in his family circle, or in after-dinner talk with a
few of his intimates (and although he was two years younger
than myself), yet I never got over a feeling of awe and
inferiority when discussing any problem in evolution or allied
subjects-an inferiority which I did not feel either with
Darwin or Sir Charles Lyell. This was due, I think, to the
fact that the enormous amount of Huxley's knowledge was
of a kind of which I possessed only an irreducible minimum,
and of which I often felt the want. In the general anatomy
and physiology of the whole animal kingdom, living and
extinct, Huxley was a master, the equal-perhaps the
superior-of the greatest authorities on these subjects in
the scientific world; whereas I had never had an hour's
instruction in either of them, had never seen a dissection of
any kind, and never had any inclination to practise the art
myself. Whenever I had to touch upon these subjects, or
to use them to enforce my arguments, I had to get both
my facts and my arguments at second hand, and appeal to
authority both for facts and conclusions from them. And:
because I was thus ignorant, and because I had a positive
distaste for all forms of anatomical and physiological experiment, I perhaps over-estimated this branch of knowledge
and looked up to those who possessed it in a pre-eminent
degree as altogether above myself.
With Darwin and Lyell, on the other hand, although both
possessed stores of knowledge far beyond my own, yet I did
possess some knowledge of the same kind, and felt myself in
a position to make use of their facts and those of all other
students in the same fields of research quite as well as the

40
MY LIF'E
[CHAP.
majority of those who had observed and recorded them. I
had, however, very early in life noticed, that men with immense knowledge did not always know how to draw just
conclusions from that knowledge, and that I myself was
quite able to detect their errors of reasoning. I also found
that when, in my early solitary studies in physics or
mechanics, I came upon some conclusion which seemed to
me, for want of clear statement in the books at my command,
contrary to what it ought to be, yet when, later, the matter
was clearly explained, I at once saw where my error lay and
had no further difficulty. I will here mention one of these
smaller stumbling-blocks, which I know are to this day quite
impassable by large numbers of persons who are interested
in physical science. It is the fact that degrees of latitudle
increase in length from the equator to the pole, the only
explanation usually given being that this is due to the cornpression at the poles, or, in other words, of the polar
diameter being less than the equatorial. Now nine persons
out of ten (probably more) who know what a " degree" is,
and have an elementary knowledge of geometry, and perhaps
a much more than elementary knowledge of several other
sciences, could not explain offhand why this is so; while
many of them, meeting with the statement for the first time
and trying to understand it, would come to the conclusion
that it was a mistake-perhaps a printer's error, and that
degrees really decrease towards the pole. For they know that
a circle is divided into 360 parts, each being a degree, and
if you draw a circle round the earth, passing through the two
poles with a radius of half the equatorial diameter, and
divide it into 360 equal parts, each of those parts will be
a degree. But the earth's radius at the poles will be about
132 miles less than at the equator; therefore the degrees will
be proportionately less, not more as stated. I possess a pamphlet addressed to the President of the Royal Astronomical
Society by a Mr. Gumpel, pointing this out, and asking them
to correct so important an error. But I presume he was
only laughed at, as what Professor de Morgan called a
"paradoxer," and the Americans a "crank," and I dare say

xxvi] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
41
the poor man lived and died in the conviction that astro.
nomers were ashamed to confess their error. Now the
essential point, rarely explained in popular books, is, that if
the earth were of exactly the same shape it is now, but did
not turn on its axis, then degrees of latitude at and near the
pole would really be shorter than those at and near the
equator; but the bulging out at the equator is caused by
the rotation, owing to centrifugal force diminishing the force
of gravity there, and causing the true sphere, which gravity
would produce in a non-rotating fluid or flexible mass, to be
changed into a spheroid of greater diameter at the equator,
where the rotating motion is swifter, and therefore the
centrifugal force greater. The surface will therefore become
a surface of equilibrium, due to the two forces everywhere
acting upon it, and the direction of a plumb-line will be also
determined by the same two forces, and will necessarily be
at right angles to that surface. It follows that as the curvature along a meridian is more rapid near the equator than
that of a sphere of the mean diameter of the earth, and less
rapid or flatter near the poles, therefore two or more plumblines near the equator will meet at a point nearer than the
geometrical centre of the earth, while those near the poles
will meet at a point beyond the geometrical centre, and therefore the degrees near the latter, being measured on a circle
of longer radius, will be longer than those near the equator.
It appears, then, that the problem is not a geometrical one,
as the mere statement of the fact seems to make it, but one
of mechanics and the laws of motion, and what we really
measure is the amount of curvature on different parts of the
earth's surface, not an equal angle measured from its centre,
which is what the term "degree" usually and properly
means. From this point of view the astronomers are all
wrong, since they use the term "degree" of latitude in a
technical sense, which is not its geometrical meaning, and
they very rarely explain this to their readers. Degrees of
latitude are dynamical, not geometrical quantities.
This rather long digression may be considered to be out
of place, but it is given in order to illustrate the steps by

42
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
which I gradually acquired confidence in my own judgment,
so that in dealing with any body of facts bearing upon a
question in dispute, if I clearly understood the nature of the
facts and gave the necessary attention to them, I would
always draw my own inferences from them, even though I
had men of far greater and more varied knowledge against
me. Thus I have never hesitated to differ from Lyell,
Darwin, and even Spencer, and, so far as I can judge, in all
the cases in which I have so differed, the weight of scientific,opinion is gradually turning in my direction. In reasoning
I power upon the general phenomena of nature or of society,
I feel able to hold my own with them; my inferiority consists
in my limited knowledge, and perhaps also in my smaller
power of concentration for long periods of time.
With Huxley also I felt quite on an equality when dealing with problems arising out of facts equally well known to
both of us; but wherever the structure or functions of animals
were concerned, he had the command of a body of facts so
extensive and so complex that no one who had not devoted
years to their practical study could safely attempt to make
use of them. I therefore never ventured to infringe in any
way on his special departments of study, though I occasionally made use of some of the results which he so lucidly
explained.
One of my near neighbours while I lived in London was
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, the well-known physiologist and microscopist, and a voluminous writer on various branches of natural
science. I often called on him in the evening, when I usually
found him at work with his microscope, and he always took
pleasure in showing me some special structure or some
obscure organism, and explaining the nature of what I saw.
The great controversy was then at its height as to the alleged
animal nature of a substance found in the Laurentian formation of Canada, supposed to be the oldest of all the stratified
rocks. Dr. Carpenter maintained that it was a low form of
Foraminifera, a group of which he had made a special study.
This supposed organism had been named by Sir William

XXVI]
DR. W. B. CARPENTER
43
Dawson, the geologist, Eozoon Canadense, and he was supported in his view by Dr. Carpenter, to whom he sent the
finest procurable specimens. By making sections in various
directions, and by the knowledge he possessed of the minute
structure of living and fossil Foraminifers, he arrived at his
conclusions; while other observers declared that this supposed primitive organism was entirely of mineral origin,
and that all the apparent details of organic structure were
deceptive. Dr. Carpenter showed me these specimens, and
pointed out the details of structure on which he relied, but
having no knowledge of the actual structures with which
he compared them, I could myself see nothing sufficiently
definite to settle such an important question. The discussion
went on very fiercely for years, but the general opinion now
is that all the appearances are due to forms of crystallization
in these very ancient metamorphic rocks. Dr. Carpenter
was also at work on the anatomy and physiology of the
Crinoidea or sea-lilies, on which he published some important
papers, and these, too, he would dilate upon and explain,
though not much to my enlightenment.
We often walked across the Regent's Park into town
together, and we were very friendly, though never really
intimate; and a few years later we entered on a rather acute
controversy upon mesmerism and clairvoyance, to which I
shall refer later on.
Among the more prominent naturalists, one of my chief
friends, and the one whose society I most enjoyed, was
Professor St. George Mivart, who for some years lived not
far from us in London. He was a rather singular compound
mentally, inasmuch as he was a sincere but thoroughly liberal
Catholic, and an anti-Darwinian evolutionist. But his
friendly geniality, his refined manners, his interesting conversation and fund of anecdote of the most varied kind, rendered
him a charming companion. His most intimate friends seemed
to be priests, one or two of whom were almost always among
the guests, and often the only ones, when I dined with him.
And they, too, were excellent company, full of humour and

44
MY LIFE
LCHAP.
anecdote of the most varied kind, though also ready for
serious talk or discussion; but in either case, with none of
the reserve or somewhat rigid decorum of the majority of our
clergy. Mivart visited a good deal in the country houses of
the aristocracy and country gentlemen, and he used often to
tell me things that happened in some of them, or that were
spoken of as common knowledge, which I could not have
believed on less direct authority, and which went to prove
that some of the worst features of society morals, such as are
occasionally revealed in the divorce courts, are by no means
uncommon.
Mivart thoroughly enjoyed a good dinner (as did I myself)
and was rather fond of illustrative stories on gastronomic
subjects. One that has remained in my memory for its
almost pathetic humour was of two friends recalling old times
together. "Do you remember," said one, "that splendid
dinner we had at Grantham, and how we did enjoy it? " I
do indeed," said his friend, "and it has been a constant
regret to me ever since that I did not have a second helping
of that magnificent haunch of mutton! "
He would also sometimes tell of the incredible doings of
some of the fashionable roues among the wealthy, and if I
doubted the possibility of such things being true, would
appeal to the priests, who would assure me that such things,
and worse, did really occur.
Mivart was a very severe and often an unfair critic of
Darwin, and I never concealed my opinion that he was not
justified in going so far as he did. I also criticized some of
his own writings, but he took it all very good-naturedly, and
we always remained excellent friends. Besides natural history
we had other tastes in common. He enjoyed country life,
and for some time had a small country house in the wilds of
Sussex, about midway between Forest Row and Hayward's
Heath, where we sometimes spent a few days; and some
years later he built a house on the Duke of Norfolk's estate
near Albury, where he had to make a new garden and began
to take an interest in horticulture. He was also greatly
interested in psychical research and spiritualistic phenomena;

XXVI]
ST. GEORGE MIVART
45
but this I shall refer to again when I come to my own
experiences and inquiries on this intensely interesting subject.
Even more completely than Darwin, Mivart was almost a
self-taught biologist. He was educated and trained for the,
bar, but never practised, his father being a wealthy man.
When about five and twenty he began to take an interest
in anatomy, and determined to study it systematically;
and he one day told me that when he announced his
intention, his father remarked, " Well, you never have earned
a penny yet, and I suppose you never will." This rather
put him on his mettle, and shortly afterwards he wrote
an article for some periodical, and on receiving a liberal
honorarium he produced the cheque, jokingly telling his
father that he had earned it to prove that his prediction was
a wrong one. This is a curious parallel to Darwin's statement that when he left school he was considered by his
masters and by his father as "a very ordinary boy, rather
below the common standard in intellect."
Considering the period of life at which Mivart first turned
his attention either to science or literature, the amount of
knowledge of comparative anatomy he acquired, largely from
dissections and study carried on at home, was very great, and
placed him in the first rank among the many great anatomists
of his time. This is the opinion of the very competent writer
of his obituary notice in Nature (vol. lxi. p. 569). His
writings on biological subjects were almost as extensive as
those of Darwin himself, and his total literary work, largely
metaphysical and generally of high merit, was very much
larger. In the excellent obituary notice already referred to
full justice is done both to the wide knowledge, the intellectual ability, and the charming personality of one whose
friendship I continue to look back upon with pleasure and
satisfaction.
I will conclude this chapter with a few words about the
meetings of the British Association at which I was present.
In 1862 I was invited by my kind friend, Professor Alfred
Newton, to be his guest at Magdalen College during the

46
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
meeting, in company with a party of scientific friends, chiefly
ornithologists. This was both my first visit to Cambridge
and to the Association, and under such pleasant conditions I
thoroughly enjoyed both. Besides the number of eminent
men of science I had the opportunity of hearing or seeing,
I had the pleasure of spending an evening with Charles
Kingsley in his own house, and enjoying his stimulating
conversation. There was also a slight recrudescence of the
evolution controversy in the rather painful dispute between
Professor Richard Owen and Huxley, supported by Flower,
on certain alleged differences between the brains of man and
apes.
I so much enjoyed the meeting, both in its scientific and
social aspects, that I attended the next eleven meetings, and
generally took part in some of the discussions, besides occasionally reading short papers. One of the most enjoyable
meetings socially was that at Exeter, where I and a large
party of scientific men were hospitably entertained at a
country mansion eight or ten miles from the city, into which
we were driven and brought back every day. Among the
guests there was Professor Rankin, who entertained us by
singing some of his own descriptive or witty compositions,
especially the " Song of the Engine Driver," and that inimitable Irish descriptive song on "The City of Mullingar." On
this occasion there appeared one of the most humorous
parodies of the work of the association that has ever been
written, called "Exeter Change for the British Lions." It
was in the form of a small magazine, giving reports of the
meetings, with absurd papers, witty verses, and clever
parodies of the leading members, all worthy of Hood himself
in his most humorous vein. One of the best of the parodies
is the following, as all will admit who are familiar with the
style of the supposed author.

XXVI] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
47
ON THE ALCOHOLIC COMPOUND TERMED PUNCH.
BY JOHN T --ND --LL, LL.D., F.R.S.
Chastened and invigorated by the discipline of physical research, the
philosopher fearlessly climbs the never-trodden peaks of pure thought,
whence he surveys without dizziness the shadowy domain which lies
beyond the horizon of ordinary observation. The empirical art of punchbrewing is co-extensive with civilization. But the molecular commotion
which agitates the palate of the punch-drinker and awakes in his brain
an indescribable feeling of satisfaction could only be apprehended by
one whose mind had been previously exercised on the parallel bars of
accoustics and optics.
Taste is due to vibratory motion. A peppermint lozenge, for example,
dissolving in the mouth, may be likened to a vast collection of minute
tuning-forks vibrating synchronously. Pulses are imparted to the nervous
filaments of the tongue and palate, and are translated by the internal
sense into peppermint. What was molecular agitation is now taste.
With punch properly compounded, we obtain saporous vibrations of
various degrees of rapidity, but so related that their simultaneous action
on the organ of taste produces an agreeable harmony. The saccharine,
acid, and ethylic trills are rhythmical, and a glass of punch is truly the
analogue of the sonnet. The instinct of man has detected many such
harmonies which have yet to be investigated. For example: what
palate is insensible to the harmonious effect of roast hare and currantjelly? But where is the philosopher who can lay his hand upon his
heart and say he has determined the relation of the saporous vibrations
of the jelly to those of the hare? My own researches on this point have
deepened my natural humility, and I now eat my currant-jelly with the
simple faith of a little child.
Experiment has proved that the juice of three or four lemons, and
three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar dissolved in about three pints of
boiling water, give saporous waves which strike the palate at such
intervals that the thrilling acidity of the lemon-juice and the cloying
sweetness of the sugar are no longer distinguishable. We have, in fact,
a harmony of saporific notes. The pitch, however, is too low, and to
heighten it, we infuse in the boiling water the fragrant yellow rind of
one lemon. Here we might pause, if the soul of man craved no higher
result than lemonade. But to attain the culminating saporosity of punch,
we must dash into the bowl, at least, a pint of rum and nearly the same
volume of brandy. The molecules of alcohol, sugar, and citric acid
collide, and an entirely new series of vibrations are produced-tremors to
which the dullest palate is attuned.
In punch, then, we have rhythm within rhythm, and all that philosophy can do is to take kindly to its subtle harmonies. It will depend

48
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
in some measure upon previous habits, whether the punch, when mixed,
will be taken in excess or in moderation. It may become a dangerous
ally of gravity and bring a sentient being to the gutter. But, on the
other hand, it may become the potent inner stimulus of a noble outward
life.
I was also honoured by being admitted to the fraternity
of the " Red Lions," who fed together during each meeting
of the association and expressed applause by gentle roars
and wagging of (coat) tails. On these occasions all kinds of
jokes were permissible, and speeches were made and songs
sung by the scientific humourists assembled. At Edinburgh
in I87I, Lord Neaves, a well-known wit and song-writer, was
a guest, and gave us some of his own compositions, especially
that on "The Origin of Species a la Darwin "-which he
recited standing up and with very fine humour. The following verses are samples:"A very tall Pig with a very long nose
Sends forth a proboscis right down to his toes,
And then by the name of an Elephant goes,
Which Nobody can Deny!
"An Ape with a pliable thumb and big brain,
When the gift of the gab he had managed to gain,
As Lord of Creation established his reign,
Which Nobody can Deny!"
And so on for twelve verses, and encouraging roars and great
final tail-wagging.
The most deplorable event in my experience of the
association was the choice of the late Duke of Buccleuch
as President for 1867, at Dundee; proposed, as I understood,
by Sir Roderick Murchison and weakly agreed to by his
colleagues. The President's Address has, in every other case,
been considered a very serious affair, requiring the labour of
some months to compose, in order to render it worthy of an
audience consisting practically of the best scientific intellect
of our country. But the president on this occasion evidently
considered it a condescension on his part to be there at all.
He began by telling us that he had never written a speech
in his life, and never intended to; that he knew very little

XXVII FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES

49

about science, though no doubt it was very useful in its way.

Of course it helped us to find coal, " and that kind of thing,"

to support our manufactures; chemistry, too, very useful,

dyeing, manure, and many other things-and thus he went

on, with a lot of commonplaces hardly up to the level of

an audience of tenant-farmers, for, I suppose, nearly an hour;

and then there were complimentary speeches! The address

-or rather air address-was, of course, printed, but I never

read it, as I felt sure it would be so altered and almost

wholly remodelled that it would not at all resemble the

poor stuff we had been compelled to hear.

At Glasgow, in I876, I was President of the Biological

Section, and our meeting was rendered rather lively by the

announcement of a paper by Professor W. F. Barrett on

experiments in thought-reading. The reading of this was

opposed by Dr. W. B. Carpenter and others, but as it had

been accepted by the section, it was read. Then followed a

rather heated discussion; but there were several supporters

of the paper, among whom was Lord Rayleigh, and the

public evidently took the greatest interest in the subject,

the hall being crowded. After having studied the matter

some years longer, Professor Barrett, with the assistance of

the late Frederick Myers, Professor Sidgwick, Edmund

Gurney, and a few other friends, founded the Society for

Psychical Research, which has collected a very large amount

of evidence and is still actively at work.

I and my wife were entertained at Glasgow by Mr. and

Mrs. Mirlees, and at one of their dinner-parties we enjoyed

the company of William Pengelly, of Torquay, the wellknown explorer of Kent's Cavern, whose acquaintance I had

made some years before while spending a few days at

Torquay with my friend and publisher, Mr. A. Macmillan.

He sat on one side of our hostess, and I and my wife on the

other, and during the whole dinner he kept up such a flow of

amusing and witty conversation that the entire party (a

large one) looked at us with envy. He was certainly among

the most genial and witty men I have ever met, and could

make even dry scientific subjects attractive by his humorous

VOL II.  E

50       MY LIFE  [CHAP. XXVI]

way of narrating them. It was a rather curious coincidence

that on this occasion, when "psychical research" had first

been introduced to the British Association, I learnt from Mr.

Pengelly that he had himself had one of the most amazing

psychical experiences on record, which I may perhaps find

an opportunity of narrating when I give an account of my

own investigation of these subjects.

After this year I felt that I had pretty well exhausted

the interests of the association meetings, and preferred to

take my autumn holiday, with my wife and two children,

either by the sea or among the mountains, where we could

quietly enjoy the beauties of nature in aspects somewhat

new to us; the only exception I afterwards made being the

jubilee meeting at York, and even here the chief attractions

were the beautiful Alpine gardens of Mr. Backhouse, the

excursion to Rievaulx Abbey, and a visit afterwards to my

friend Dr. Spruce in his retirement at Welburn, near Castle

Howard.

CHAPTER XXVII
MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES: SIR JAMES BROOKE,
PROFESSOR ROLLESTON, MR. AUG. MONGREDIEN, SIR
RICHARD OWEN, DR. RICHARD SPRUCE
ABOUT a year or two after I had returned home, Sir James
Brooke had also returned to England, and had retired to
a small estate at the foot of Dartmoor, where he lived in
a comfortable cottage-farmhouse amid the wild scenery in
which he delighted. I had met him once or twice in London,
and, I think in the summer of 1863 or 1864, he invited me
to spend a week with him in Devonshire, to meet his former
private secretary and my old friend in Sarawak, Mr. (now Sir
Spencer) St. John. We had a very pleasant time, strolling
about the district or taking rides over Dartmoor; while at
meals we had old-time events to talk over, with discussions
of all kinds of political and social problems in the evening.
At the same time Lady Burdett-Coutts, with her friend Mrs.
Brown, were staying near, and often drove over and took us
all for some more distant excursions.
This meeting and my friendship with Sir James Brooke
led to my receiving several invitations to dine in Stratton
Street, where my friend George Silk was also a frequent
guest; but my unfortunate habit of speaking my thoughts too -
plainly broke off the acquaintance. The rajah's nephew,
Captain Brooke, who had been formerly designated as Sir
James's successor under the Malay title of Tuan Muda (young
lord), had done or written something (I forget what) to which
Sir James objected, and a disagreement ensued, which resulted in the captain being deposed from the heirship, and
5I

52
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
his younger brother Charles, the present rajah, being nominated instead. As I was equally friendly and intimate with
both parties and heard both sides, I thought the captain had
been rather hardly treated, and one day, when the subject was
mentioned at Stratton Street, I ventured to say so. This
evidently displeased Lady Burdett-Coutts, and I was never
invited again-a matter which did not at all disturb me, as the
people I met there were not very interesting to me. When
Sir James Brooke heard of my indiscretion, he wrote to me
very kindly, saying that he knew that I was the captain's
friend and had a perfect right to take his part, and that my
doing so did not in the least offend him and would make
no difference in our relations, and I continued to receive
friendly letters from him till he went to Borneo for the last
time, in i866. Soon after his return he died at his Devonshire home, in June, I868. I have given my estimate of his
character and of his beneficent work at Sarawak in my "Malay
Archipelago."
One of my early friends, though I did not see a great deal
of him, was Professor George Rolleston, whose death in the
prime of life (in I885) was a great loss to the biological
sciences. I possess, however, only one letter from him,
accompanying some remarks by a friend of his, Dr. Kay,
principal of a theological college in Calcutta, on my article
in The Reader on " How to Civilize Savages," in which I had
criticized missionary work, and, by implication, popular ideas
of the value of Christianity. The MSS. sent has been lost,
but I happen to have a rough copy of my reply, and as it
argues the missionary question more fully than was thought
necessary in the article (included with additions in my
"Studies "), I think it may be well to print it here.
"9, St. Mark's Crescent, Regent's Park,
" September 23, I865.
"DEAR ROLLESTON,
"Your friend has very fairly stated my argument,
yet does not seem to me to touch the point of it in his

xxvII FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
53
answer. For instance, he says, 'the principal doctrines of
Christianity were held at the beginning as now.' True, but
what was that beginning? and where did the doctrines and
dogmas of Christianity spring up? It was in the very focus
of all the highest and most ancient civilizations of the world
-the Jewish, the Egyptian, the Assyrian, the Greek, and the
Roman. These peoples had already gone through the long
process of mental development which the savage has not even
begun. The doctrines (of Christianity) grew among them,
as they do not grow among savages, because they were adapted
to the mental state in the one case, but are not in the other.
"What savage nations have (as he asserts) been raised out
of their degradation by Christianity? The Abyssinians are
a good case to show that Christianity alone does nothing.
The circumstances have not been favourable to the growth of
civilization in Abyssinia, and therefore, though they have had
Christianity as long as we have (or longer), they are scarcely
equal morally to many pagan and certainly inferior to some
Mohammedan nations. This is a crucial instance.
" He says the Britons did not arrive at any 'great moral
elevation' under the Romans. But will he point out any
savages who have arrived at a 'great moral elevation' in the
same time under Christianity? I know of none. No doubt
there has been often a superficial improvement, as in some
of the South Sea islands; but it is an open question how
much of that is due to the purely moral influence of a higher
and more civilized race.
" Of course, if you claim all virtue as Christian virtue, and
impute all want of goodness to want of true Christianity, you
may prove the value of any religion. The Mohammedan
argues exactly the same (see Lady Duff Gordon's ' Letters
from Egypt'). Your friend would no doubt impute whatever
scraps of goodness there may exist in myself to the Christianity
in which I was educated; but I know and feel (though it
would no doubt shock him to hear) that I acted from lower
motives than I do now, and that I was really inferior
morally as a Christian than I am now as, what he would
call, an infidel.

54
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
"I look upon the doctrine of future rewards and punishments as a motive to action to be radically bad, and as bad
for savages as for civilized men. I look upon it, above all, as
a bad preparation for a future state. I believe that the only
way to teach and to civilize, whether children or savages, is
through the influence of love and sympathy; and the great
thing to teach them is to have the most absolute respect for
the rights of others, and to accustom them to receive pleasure
from the happiness of others. After this education of habit,
they should be taught the great laws of the universe and of
the human mind, and the precepts of morality must be placed
on their only sure foundation-the conviction that they
alone can guide mankind to the truest and most widespread
happiness.
" I cannot see that the teaching of all this can be furthered
by the dogmas of any religion, and I do not believe that
those dogmas really have any effect in advancing morality in
one case out of a thousand.
" My article, by-the-bye, was considerably pruned, and I,
of course, think spoilt by the editor.
"Yours very sincerely,
" ALFRED R. WALLACE."
In the year I869 it was proposed to establish a scientific
weekly paper to serve as a record of progress for workers, to
furnish reviews of scientific books by specialists dealing with
them on their merits alone, to give reports of the meetings
of societies, and popular yet accurate accounts of all remarkable new facts or theories of general interest. I took
part in the meetings at which the subject was discussed,
and undertook to contribute occasionally to its pages, and
for the next quarter of a century almost every volume of
Nlatzre, as the new periodical was called, contains either
reviews, letters, or articles from my pen. In the fifth issue
(December 2, I869) there was an article on science reform,
giving an account of the report of a committee of the British
Association on a question suggested by a paper read by
Lieut.-Colonel Strange, entitled, "On the Necessity for State

xxvII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
55
Intervention to secure the Progress of Physical Science."
The committee, almost all professors or officially employed
men of science, reported that State aid was required, and the
article in Nature supported the view. Believing that this
was not only injudicious, but wrong, I thought it advisable to
state my reasons for opposing it, and sent a rather long letter
to the editor. It was published on January I3, 1870, but in
order to counteract its supposed dangerous tendency a
leading article accompanied it, headed, "Government Aid
to Science," strongly controverting my views, somewhat misrepresenting them, and omitting to deal with the main ethical
question which I raised. As my letter is buried in the first
volume of a periodical which few of my readers will possess,
and as I hold the same views still, and consider their advocacy
to be now more important than ever, I here reproduce my
letter.
"GOVERNMENT AID TO SCIENCE.
"The public mind seems now to be going wild on the
subject of education; the Government is obliged to give way
to the clamour, and men of science seem inclined to seize the
opportunity to get, if possible, some share of the public
money. Art education is already to a considerable extent
supplied by the State, technical education (which I presume
means education in ' the arts') is vigorously pressed upon the
Government, and science also is now urging her claims to a
modicum of State patronage and support.
"Now, I protest most earnestly against the application of
public money to any of the above-specified purposes, as being
radically vicious in principle, and as being, in the present state
of society, a positive wrong. In order to clear the ground, let
me state that, for the purpose of the present argument, I
admit the right and duty of the State to educate its citizens.
I uphold national, but I object absolutely to all sectional or
class education; and all the above-named schemes are simply
forms of class education. The broad principle I go upon is
this-that the State has no moral right to apply funds raised
by the taxation of all its members to any purpose which is

MY LIFE
[CHAP.
not directly available for the benefit of all. As it has no
right to give class preferences in legislation, so it has no right
to give class preferences in the expenditure of public money.
If we follow this principle, national education is not forbidden,
whether given in schools supported by the State, or in
museums, or galleries, or gardens fairly distributed over the
whole kingdom, and so regulated as to be equally available
for the instruction or amusement of all classes of the community. But here a line must be drawn. The schools, the
museums, the galleries, the gardens must all alike be popular
-that is, adapted for and capable of being fully used and
enjoyed by the people at large-and must be developed by
means of public money to such an extent only as is needful
for the highest attainable popular instruction and benefit.
All beyond this should be left to private munificence, to
societies, or to the classes benefited, to supply.
" In art, all that is needed only for the special instruction of
artists or for the delight of amateurs, should be provided by
artists or amateurs. To expend public money on third-rate
prints or pictures, or on an intrinsically worthless book, both
of immense money value on account of their rarity, and as
such of great interest to a small class of literary and art
amateurs, and to them only, I conceive to be absolutely
wrong. So, in science, to provide museums such as will at
once elevate, instruct, and entertain all who visit them may
be a worthy and just expenditure of public money; but to
spend many times as much as is necessary for this purpose in
forming enormous collections of all the rarities that can be
obtained, however obscure and generally uninteresting they
may be, and however limited the class who can value or
appreciate them, is, as plainly, an unjust expenditure. It
will perhaps surprise some of your readers to find a naturalist
advocating such doctrines as these; but though I love nature
much, I love justice more, and would not wish that any man
should be compelled to contribute towards the support of an
institution of no interest to the great mass of my countrymen,
however interesting to myself.
" For the same reason, T maintain that all schools of art or

xXVII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
57
of science, or for technical education, should be supported by
the parties who are directly interested in them or benefited
by them. If designs are not forthcoming for the English
manufacturer, and he is thus unable to compete with
foreigners, who should provide schools of design but the
manufacturers and the pupils who are the parties directly
interested? It seems to me as entirely beyond the proper
sphere of the State to interfere in this matter, as it would be
to teach English bootmakers or English cooks at the public
expense in order that they may be able to compete with
French artistes in these departments. In both cases such
interference amounts to protection and class legislation, and
I have yet to learn that these can be justified by the urgent
necessity of our producing shawls and calicoes, or hardware
and crockery, as elegantly designed as those of our neighbours. And if our men of science want more complete
laboratories, or finer telescopes, or more costly apparatus of
any kind, who but our scientific associations and the large
and wealthy class now interested in science should supply
the want? They have hitherto done so nobly, and I should
myself feel that it was better that the march of scientific
discovery should be a little less rapid (and of late years the
pace has not been bad) than that science should descend
one step from her lofty independence and sue in forlnd
pauperis to the already overburthened taxpayer. In like
manner, if our mechanics are not so well able as they
might be to improve the various arts they are engaged in,
surely the parties who ought to provide the special education
required are the great employers of labour, who by their
assistance are daily building up colossal fortunes; and also
that great and wealthy class which is, professionally or
otherwise, interested in the constructive or decorative arts.
"I maintain further, not only that money spent by
Government for the purposes here indicated is wrongly spent,
but also that it is, in a great measure, money wasted. The
best collectors (whether in art or science) are usually private
amateurs; the best workers are usually home-workers or the
empioyts of scientific associations, not of Governments. Could

58
MY LIFE
(CHAP.
any Government institution have produced results so much
superior to those of our Royal Institution, with its Davy,
Faraday, and Tyndall, as to justify the infringement of a
great principle? Would the grand series of scientific and
mechanical inventions of this century have been more
thoroughly or more fruitfully worked out if Government had
taken science and invention under its special patronage in
the year i800, and had subjected them to a process of forcing
(in a kind of Laputa College) from that day to this? No
one can really believe we should have got on any better
under such a regime, while it is certain that much power
would have been wasted in the attempt to develop inventions
and discoveries before the age was ripe for them, and which
would therefore have inevitably languished and been laid
aside without producing any great results. Experience shows
that free competition ensures a greater supply of the materials
and a greater demand for the products of science and art,
and is thus a greater stimulus to true and healthy progress
than any Government patronage. Let it but become an
established rule that all institutions solely for the advancement of science and art must be supported by private
munificence, and we may be sure that such institutions would
be quite as well kept up as they are now, and I believe much
better. If they were not, it would only prove more clearly
how unjust it is to take money from the public purse to pay
for that which science and art lovers would very much like
to have, but are not willing themselves to pay for.
"The very common line of argument, which attempts to
prove the widespread uses and high educating influence of
art and of science, is entirely beside the question. Every
product of the human intellect is more or less valuable; but
it does not therefore follow that it is just to provide any
special product for those who want it at the expense of those
who either do not want or are not in a condition to make
use of it. Good architecture, for instance, is a very good
thing, and one we are much in want of; but it will hardly
be maintained that architects should be taught their profession at the public expense. The history of old china, of old

XXVII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
59
clothes, or of postage-stamps are each of great interest to
more or less extensive sections of the community, and much
may be said in each case to prove the value of the study;
but surely no honest representative of the nation would vote,
say, the moderate sum of a million sterling for three museums
to exhibit these objects, with a full staff of beadles, curators,
and professors at an equally moderate expenditure of CIo,ooo
annually, with perhaps a like sum for the purchase of
specimens. But if we once admit the right of the Government to support institutions for the benefit of any class of
students and amateurs, however large and respectable, we
adopt a principle which will lead us to offer but a weak
resistance to the claims of less and less extensive interests
whenever they happen to become the fashion.
"If it be asked (as it will be) what we are to do with
existing institutions supported by Government, I am prepared
to answer. Taking the typical examples of the National
Gallery and the British Museum, I would propose that these
institutions should be reorganized, so as to make them in the
highest degree instructive and entertaining to the mass of
the people; that no public money should be spent on the
purchase of specimens, but what they already contain should
be so thoroughly cared for and utilized as to render these
establishments the safest, the best, and the most worthy
receptacles for the treasures accumulated by wealthy amateurs
and students, who would then be ready to bestow them on
the nation to a greater extent than they do at present. From
the duplicates which would thus accumulate in these institutions the other great centres of population in the kingdom
should be proportionately supplied, and from the Metropolitan
centres trained officers should be sent to organize and superintend local institutions, such a proportion of their salaries
being paid by Government as fairly to equalize the expenditure of public money over the whole kingdom, and thus not
infringe that great principle of equality and justice which, I
maintain, should be our guide in all such cases.
" ALFRED R. WALLACE."

60
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
I received one solitary letter from a scientific man supporting my views-Mr. G. R. Crotch, of the University
Library, Cambridge, a very good naturalist and reasoner.
But the process of forcing on expenditure for scientific purposes has gone on increasing: the Challenger expedition, with
its enormously costly publication of results in thirty-seven
large quarto volumes, of not the least interest to any but
specialists in biology and physics; the new buildings at South
Kensington for the Science and Art Department; the enormous and unending increase of new buildings for the housing
of all the output of the modern book trade, and of the
hundreds and thousands of daily and weekly newspapers, and
the monthly magazines and endless trade and art and specialist
periodicals-huge mountains of rubbish that each succeeding
year will render more utterly impossible of examination by
any human being who may live in the next century. In
connection with South Kensington, the suggestion has been
put forward that a million of money is required to properly
house the various scientific departments there; while, most
recent of all, there has been an influential request for an
anthropometrical survey and sickness registration of the whole
population, at a cost comparable with that of the geological
survey I the grounds being that it is the only way to ascertain
if there is any physical deterioration of the people, and thus
enable the Government to stave off any fundamental remedial
measures by the excuse of want of further information I
Among the many pleasant episodes of my life was my
connection with Mr. Augustus Mongredien, a member of the
Corn Exchange, a writer on free trade, and author of a book
published by Murray in 1870-" Trees and Shrubs for English
Gardens." When I got my chalk-pit at Grays in 1871, built
a house there, and began to take a great interest in gardening,
I bought this book, and in consequence wrote to the author.
Soon afterwards he invited me to visit him at Heatherside,
on the Bagshot sands, where he had formed a nursery of
several hundred acres, planted with a great variety of trees
and shrubs then just coming to maturity. He then formed

XXVII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES  6i

it into a joint-stock company, and persuaded me, along with

Mr. Fortune, the well-known traveller and plant-collector in

China and Japan, and several other persons connected with

horticulture, to become directors. After two or three years

(there being a mortgage on the property) the company had

to be dissolved, and Mr. Mongredien lost all he had invested

in it. During the time it lasted, however, I and my wife

often spent from Saturday to Monday at Heatherside with

Mr. Mongredien, his wife, and two daughters; and among

the friends we occasionally met there was Professor (afterwards Sir Richard) Owen, the great anatomist, and one of

the most charming of companions. Mr. Mongredien himself

was a highly educated and most energetic man, and a great

converser. He knew most European languages well, including

modern Greek, and was a good classical scholar. He was

also well read in general literature, devotedly fond of plants

and of nature generally, and somewhat of a bon vivant; and

when I add that his wife was agreeable, and his daughters

intellectual, it will be seen that we had all the elements to

make our visits delightful. I had had some correspondence

with Professor Owen many years before about the specimens

of orang-utang I sent home from Borneo, and I had occasionally met him at scientific societies or at the British Museum;

but here I saw him in his social aspect, telling us curious

little anecdotes about animals, or quoting the older poets for

the gratification of the young ladies. He was also very fond

of gardening, and we spent much of our time in long walks

about the grounds, where there were quantities of the finest

species of conifers from about ten to thirty feet high and

in perfect health, and showing all the exquisite beauties of

their special type of vegetation in form, foliage, and colour

more completely than when at a greater age. These visits

gave me a knowledge and love of trees and shrubs, which

has been a constant pleasure to me in the three gardens I

have since had to make, from the very beginning.

Among the dearest of my friends, the one towards whom

I felt more like a brother than to any other person, was Dr.

62
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
Richard Spruce, one of the most cultivated and most charming of men, as well as one of the most enthusiastic and
observing of botanists. As he lived in Yorkshire after I867,
I only saw him at rather long intervals, but I generally took
the opportunity of lecture engagements in the north to pay
him a few days' visit. Our correspondence also was scanty,
as he was a great invalid and could not write much, and I
only preserved such letters as touched upon subjects connected with my own work. I will, however, give a few
extracts from these, both to illustrate the character of a littleknown man of science, and also because some of the matters
touched on are of general scientific interest.
I sent Spruce a copy of my little volume of Essays on
"Natural Selection," in I870, and after reading it he sent it
on to his friend, W. Wilson, of Warrington, a British botanist,
and, like my friend, an enthusiast in mosses. His reply
Spruce sent to me, and it is rather amusing, as showing the
feelings of the older school of naturalists towards the new
heresy of Darwinism.
", MY DEAR FRIEND,
" You will think me a wayward chiel when you hear
my confession that to-day, feeling very squeamish mentally,
I happened to bethink myself of Wallace's book, and ventured to open it with great misgivings about my coming into
rapport with one whom you introduced to me as the champion
of Darwinian philosophy. With fear and trembling I paused
on the threshold of the book, just to see what I should have
to grapple with. The 'Contents,' therefore, engaged such
attention as I could command, and after examining, or rather
glancing, at the contents of the first seven chapters without
much emotion of either attractive or repulsive character,
skipped over to chapter x., the last of the series, not greatly
excited at either pole of the intellect, until I came to 'Matter
is Force; all Force is probably Will-force.' ' Oho!' said I,
'now we come to something of interest and connected with
my friend Rev. T. P. Kirkman's rather unskilfully written
pamphlet on this very subject-we shall have everything in

XXVII]
DR. RICHARD SPRUCE
63
shape and properly argued by the clear-minded Wallace, no
doubt.'
"My inquisitiveness, however, did not prevent my beginning at the beginning of the chapter, and I now write
before I have come to the question of force and matter.
I am delighted and most agreeably surprised to discover
that Wallace, whom I least expected to agree with me,
confirms what I said to you in a previous letter about
Darwin's theory being one truth in conjunction with another
(and perhaps higher) truth; not the only truth in reference
to created entities.
"Well, if Wallace has nothing more contrarient than the
contents of this chapter are likely to present to me, I shall
not fear to read the rest of the book despondent of coming
into complete harmony with him, neither need you fear that
I shall remain sceptical on those points where already I am
willing to receive them in hypothesis for all really useful or
practical purposes in reference to classification. I have as
yet to assure myself that chapter x. is not a delusive phantasmal addition written or dreamed by myself, and which I
shall soon find, on waking, to be unreal and imaginary.
"As it is, all my apprehensions of a soporific, such as I
found Darwin's book to be, are dispelled. The book is a
very readable one, at any rate, and no one need go to sleep
over it... (a long passage here on origin of sense of justice).
" Many, many thanks for the loan of this book. Even
the little I have read would demand a most grateful return,
and I would not have missed it for a good deal. I now
anticipate an intellectual feast over the whole of the book, and
shall carry it with me joyfully and hopefully to Southport.
" I am glad to learn that Terrington Carr is not entirely
obsolete and abolished. I do hope to see it again with my
own eyes, and to gather the sphagnum.
"Ever affectionately and truly yours,
"W. WILSON."
It is curious that this chapter x., which was so grievous
a falling-off to Darwin that he scored it with "No! No!"

64
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
and could hardly believe I wrote it, should have been the
means of attracting one good botanist to read it with attention, and thus probably to make a convert.
A letter from Spruce, dated Welburn, Yorkshire, December 28, 1873, gives some interesting matter on a botanical
subject on which I had consulted him.
"My article on the modifications in plant-structure produced by the agency of ants was never printed. After I
had been told that the MSS. was in the printer's hands, it
was returned to me with the request that I would strike out
of it two or three short passages, amounting altogether to
hardly a page of the Linncaan Yoournal. I declined to do
this, for the obnoxious passages summarized my views on
the permanent effects produced on certain species of plants
by the unceasing operations of ants, extending doubtless
through thousands of ages; and these views were founded on
observations continued during eight consecutive years. The
bare reading of the paper, at the Linnaean, seems to have left
a very erroneous impression on some of the auditors. Somebody-I believe it was at a meeting of your own Entomological Society-has credited me with the theory that plants
take to climbing to get out of the way of the ants! As I
read this absurd statement I thought that none of the plants
I had commented on had a climbing habit; but on looking
over the list of two or three hundred species, I find there is
a single one that climbs.
"When you go to the British Museum or to the Kew
Herbarium, ask to look at the genus Tococa or Myrmidone, in
Melastomaceae, and you will see examples of the curious sacs
on the leaves which are inhabited by ants. Similar sacs are
found on the leaves also of certain Chrysobalaneae, Rubiaceae,
etc., and analogous ones on the branches of cordias and
other plants. I believe that in many cases these sacs have
become inherited structures-as much as the spurs of orchids
and columbines, and thousands of other asymetrical structures, all of which I suppose to have originated in some long
continued external agency.
" I know that I ought to have gone carefully over all my

XXVII]
D>R. SPRUCE
65
specimens again, and to have had drawings prepared to
illustrate my memoir. It is the inability to do this which
has kept me from writing on many subjects which engaged
my attention during the course of my travels....
"The ants cannot be said to be useful to the plants, any
more than fleas and lice are to animals. They make their
habitation in the melastomas, etc., and suck the juice of the
sweet berries; and the plants have to accommodate to their
parasites as they best may. But even an excrescence may be
turned into a 'thing of beauty,' as witness the galls of the
wild rose.
"That diseased structures may become inherited-even
in the human subject-there is plenty of evidence to prove.
Some curious instances are given in Dr. Elam's 'Physician's
Problems.'"
At this period Dr. Spruce was, of course, not aware of
the very strong evidence against the inheritance of acquired
characters of any kind, nor had he the advantage of Kerner's
wonderful series of observations on the nature of protective
plant-structures against enemies of various kinds-" unbidden
guests." Nor was he aware of Belt's remarkable explanation
of the use to the plant of one of the most remarkable of these
ant-structures-the bull's-horn thorns of a species of acacia.
He shows that the ants encouraged by these structures to
inhabit the plants are stinging species, are very pugnacious,
and thus protect the foliage both from browsing mammals,
from other insects, and even from the large leaf-cutting ants.1
In a later letter, however, Dr. Spruce adopts utility to the
plant as a general principle.
In a letter, dated Coneysthorpe, Malton, Yorkshire, July
28, I876, he writes as follows:"I can hardly say that I have ever speculated on the
purport of the odours of leaves, but I have (at your instance) rummaged in my notes and my memory, for such
evidence as I possess on that head, and will lay it before
you.
"Every structure, every secretion, of a plant is (before all)
1 The Naturalist in Nicaragua," pp. 218, 223.
VOL. II.
F

66
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
beneficial to the plant itself. That is, I suppose, an incontrovertible axiom. Odoriferous glands, especially if imbedded
in the leaf, act as a protection against leaf-cutting ants, and
(to some extent) also against catterpillars. I can remember
no instance of seeing insects attracted to a plant, to aid in its
fertilization, or for any other purpose, by their presence. The
glands on which some insects feed are (so far as I know)
always exposed, either in the shape of cups on the petioles,
involucres &c., or of hairs with dilated and hollow bases,
and of sessile or stalked cysts, on the leaves, petioles,
pedicels &c.; and the secretion is either tasteless or slightly
sweet, but inodorous-to our senses at least.
"Trees with aromatic leaves abound in the plains of
equatorial America. Those which have the aromatic (and
often resinous) secretion imbedded in distinct cysts include
all Myrtacea, Myrsineae, Sanydeae, and many Euphorbiaceae,
Compositae etc. The leaves of very few of these are, when
growing, ever touched by leaf-cutting ants. In the few cases,
however, where the secretion is slightly but pleasantly bitter,
and wholesome, as in the Orange, the leaves are quite to their
taste. At a farm house on the Trombetas1 I was shown
orange-trees which had been entirely denuded in a single
night by Safiba ants. Various expedients are resorted to by
the inhabitants of Sauiba-infested lands to protect their fruittrees, such as a small moat, kept constantly filled with water,
around each tree; or wrapping the base of the trunk with
cotton kept soaked with andiroba oil, etc.
[NOTE.-Leaf-cutters in the vicinity of man work chiefly
by night, taught doubtless by painful experience of his vicious
propensity to interfere with their operations..But in the
depths of the forest I have often caught them at work, some
up a tree cutting off leaves and even slender young branches,
others on the ground sawing them up and carrying them off.
When at San Carlos,2 I one day went into the forest to
gather a Securidaca (woody Polygaleous twiner) I had seen
coming into flower a few weeks before. I found it in full
A northern tributary of the Amazon above Santarem.
2 The first village in Venezuela on the Upper Rio Negro.-A. R. W,

xxvIIr
DR. SPRUCE
flower, but the little tree on which it grew-a Phyllanthus,
with slightly milky and quite innocuous juice, had been taken
possession of by a horde of ants, and I had to wait until they
had stripped it of every leaf before I could pull down my
Securidaca, which they had left quite untouched. It was
probably preserved by its drastic properties from sharing the
fate of the Phyllanthus.]
"Many odoriferous leaves seem destitute of special oilglands, and their essential oil probably exists in nearly
every cell, along with the chlorophyll as I have found it in
several aromatic Hepatics. Many Laurineae and Burseraceae
(Amyrideae of Lindley) are in this case. The latter are
eminently resiniferous, and yield the best native pitch (the
brea branca) of the Amazon valley. I have never seen their
leaves mutilated by ants, and I think never by catterpillars.
Oil-glands indeed exist in many plants where they are either
so deeply imbedded or so minute as only to be detected by
close scrutiny. Their presence was denied in the Nutmegs
(see Lindley, etc.) until I found them in the American
species, and one species has them so conspicuous that I have
called it Myristica punctata.
"In nearly all these plants, however, when the essential
oil has been wholly or in part dissipated by drying, the
leaf-cutters find the leaves apt material for their purposewhatever that may be.2 They once fell on some of my dried
specimens, and first cut up a Croton-a genus I had never
seen them touch in the living state. It reminded me of our
cows in England, which cautiously avoid the fresh foliage of
Buttercups, but eat it readily when made into hay. The
acrid principle in these and many other plants, odorous and
inodorous, is known to be highly volatile.
" Where aromatic plants most abound is in the dry-often
nearly treeless-mountainous parts of southern Europe and
Western Asia, especially in the sierras of Spain. When I
i In Lindley's "' Vegetable Kingdom " (3rd ed.) he gives among the characters
of the Order Myristicaceae, " Leaves not dotted."-A. R. W.
2 The ants store these leaves in extensive underground cavities, where fungi
grow on them on which the ants feed (see Bates and Belt).-A. R. W.

68
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
was with Dufour at St. Sever, in April, 1846, he received
a large parcel of plants recently gathered in the Sierra
Guadarama by Prof. Graells, of Madrid. A very large proportion were aromatic, and many of them Labiates.
"I cannot make out that plants with scented leaves
abound more in the tropics than in mid-Europe: nor does
there seem to be a larger proportion of them in any zone of
the equatorial Andes than in the Amazonian plain; although,
as hill-plants are often gregarious, and those of hot plains
very rarely so, odoriferous plants may seem more prevalent
in the high Andes than on the Amazon.
"Plants growing nearest eternal snow in the Andes are,
however (so far as I have observed them), all scentless; but
some acquire an aroma in drying, as, for example the thick
roots of the Valerians that abound there.
"Aromatic plants grow in the Andes up to, perhaps,
13,000 feet, and consist chiefly of Composites, Myrtles,
Labiates and Verbenas. I know a hill-side at about 9000
feet, which at this time of year is one mass of odoriferous foliage and flowers, chiefly of a Labiate undershrub
(Gardoquia fasciculata, Bth.). Another slope of far wider
extent is much gayer with varied colour mainly of the blue
flowers of Dalea Mutisii H. B. K.-a papilionaceous shrub
allied to the Indigos-and of the red-purple foxglove-like
flowers of Lamourouxia virgata H. B. K. (which is parasitic
on the roots of the Dalea) mingled with the yellow flowers of
the Quitenian broom (Genista Quitensis, L.), and of many
other herbs and shrubs with flowers of various shades of
colour; but aromatic plants are almost unrepresented
except by scattered bushes of a Salvia and a Eupatorium.
Analogous contrasts are common enough in our own country.
"In those parts of the Peruvian and Quitenian Andes
I have explored, I have not found odoriferous plants more
abundant than in some parts of England and the Pyrenees;
yet they are quite as much so as in the Amazonian plain,
and often belong to the same Natural Orders. Now leafcutting ants are unknown in the Andes; whence I infer that,
although the presence of a pungent smell and taste may be

XXVII]
DR. SPRUCE
69
protective to leaves in hot forests where such ants do exist,
it has not been acquired originally to provide the requisite
protection.
"I much doubt the correctness of Mr. Belt's theory that
the ants which inhabit leaf-sacs protect the leaves from
leaf-cutting ants; for the leaves of such plants are almost
invariably thin and dry; whereas the Sauba always selects
leaves that are more or less coriaceous, and if it really
wanted the sacciferous leaves I fancy it would make short
work of their frail inhabitants. Besides, there are numbers
of Melastomes, allied to Tococa and Myrmidone, which the
Sauiba never touches, although they have no protective (?)
sacs; but it cuts up readily the coriaceous leaves of other
Melastomes, such as various Bellucias, Henrietteas, &c.
"RICHARD SPRUCE."
This letter was written in pencil lying on a couch, to which
he was confined the greater part of the day during the latter
years of his life, and I have much pleasure in printing it here,
because it serves to show my friend's acuteness of observation,
and the great interest he took, not only in the structure, but
in the whole life and nature of the plants he loved so well,
and in their relations to the animal world. I have no doubt
but that his objections to Belt's theory that the small stinging
ants protected the leaves of the trees or shrubs they inhabited
from the very powerful and destructive Sadba ants, are quite
sound, and that his many years' observations in the Amazonian
forests are to be trusted on this point; yet I believe that
Belt was right in their being protective, and there are many
devourers of leaves that are as destructive as the leaf-cutting
ants. Shrubs which always had colonies of stinging ants
would probably be avoided by the tapir and by deer, while
they would almost certainly check the ravages of caterpillars,
locusts, and the large leaf- and stick-insects.
There is another point that this letter illustrates: the
wonderful complexity and adaptability of organization of
all living things leading to that infinite variety of form and
structure, of colour and motion, which constitute the greatest

70
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
charm of the study of nature. People continually ask, "If
scented leaves are such a protection, why do not all plants
have them? If so many can do without them they cannot
be of any use." And the same objection is made to all the
other wonderful modes of protection by concealing colours or
patterns, by resembling uneatable or dangerous species, by the
production of spines or various kinds of armour. "Why are
not all protected?" they say. " You admit that the majority
are without these kinds of protection, yet they all continue
to exist. The whole idea is therefore a delusion." And they
think they have thus destroyed a large part of Darwin's theory.
But all this shows that they are either ignorant of, or forget,
the main facts on which that theory is founded-the enormous
rate of possible increase of all organisms, the intensity therefore of the struggle to exist, since only the few best adapted
of these enormous numbers can survive to produce offspring;
and also the undoubted fact that species vary enormously in
population, some being common over large areas, some comparatively scarce, others confined to very limited areas, others
again only existing in such small numbers and in such
restricted areas that they are very rarely found. Now, if
some great change of climate comes on slowly, such a mixed
population of species will be affected in different ways and
will require different modifications to become adapted to it.
Some will become extinct, some will be adapted in one way,
some in quite a different way, depending partly on the kind
and amounts of variation that occurs in each species. Some
will therefore become more numerous in individuals, others
less; and when the complete change of climate has been
effected, we should find a new set of species, some differing
very little, others very greatly from the former inhabitants
of the district, but all fairly well adapted to live under the
new conditions. Taking the one case of the protected leaves,
it would be only those which were in some danger of extermination by insect and other enemies that would develop
the various forms of protection by oil-glands, or hairs, or
spines, or by attracting stinging ants; while many which
existed in great numbers and over wide areas, and which

XXVII]
DR. SPRUCE
7I
produced abundance of seed annually ready to fill up all
vacancies caused by death, could (metaphorically) laugh at
all such enemies, and let them devour as they pleased. Such
a plant is our own oak tree, which, though infested by galls
of many kinds and devoured by numerous caterpillars, is
yet not in the least danger of extinction by them, and therefore has developed no special protection against them.
Again, when in any one year much injury is done by
caterpillars, that affords such an increase of food to young
birds that the insects are almost all destroyed, and in the
following year there are comparatively few, giving the trees
time to recuperate and attain to their former vigour; while
in the following year the birds have less food and are thus
diminished in numbers. This wonderful action and reaction
of all living things on each other is beautifully described
by Mr. Hudson in the chapter of his " Naturalist in La Plata,"
entitled "A Wave of Life."
Early in I879 I read Grant Allen's book on the " Colour
Sense " (for the purpose of a review in Nature), and wrote
to Spruce asking for some information as to the colours of
edible fruits in the South American forests. His reply was,
as usual, full of interesting and suggestive facts, and I here
give it.
"To reply fully to the queries in your last letter would
require me to wade through several volumes of my MSS.,
but I have put together a few excerpta which may serve your
present purpose, if they only reach you in time.
"I fear I cannot adduce much evidence as to the fruits
most sought after by birds and monkeys. I have seen birds
feed on various fruits, but on scarcely any that were not food
for man-or at least for Indian man-although a few of
them might be too austere, or too acid, for my taste. If,
as Sterne says, 'dogs syllogize with their noses,' so do birds
with their beaks, monkeys and Indians with their teeth:
insomuch as relates to the choice of food. In my long
voyage on the Cassiquiare, Alto Orinoco, and some of their
tributary streams, my Indians met with many fruits new to

72
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
them, all of which that looked at all promising, they tried
their teeth on; and, if the taste suited they ate on without
dread of consequences. Drupaceous fruits especially were
found almost uniformly wholesome, although the juice of
the bark &c. might be acrid or poisonous. It is curious
that in the Apocynea-an order notable for its abundant
milky, and usually poisonous juice-the fruits are rarely, or
very slightly, milky, and the succulent fruits (which are
found in about half the species) are almost invariably wholesome. You know the Thevetias, whose large bony triangular
endocarps, strung together, form the rattles which the Uanpe
Indians tie round their ankles in their dances. The milk of
the bark is a deadly poison-Humboldt says a scratch from
a thumb-nail anointed with it is almost certain death. At
Marabitanas a well-grown tree of T. neriifolia grew near the
Commandante's house. It bore flowers and ripe fruits-drupes,
with a thin yellowish cuticle, and about as much flesh on
them as on an average plum; and I noticed that the Commandante's fowls greedily ate up the fleshy part of any fruit
that might chance to fall. Seeing this, I thought I might
safely eat of them; so I gathered and ate four. What little
taste they had was rather pleasant, and no ill effects followed.
I had not then seen (as I saw a few years afterwards) what
a quantity of black pepper and tobacco a fowl can swallow
with impunity, or I might have thought the experiment rather
hazardous.
"Many fruits and seeds are sought by animals of all
kinds for the sake of their farinaceous or oleaginous properties. The envelope of these, in any part of the world,
is not often gaily coloured, although some pods of Amazonian
Leguminosae are deep red, and the contained seeds are very
often painted or mottled. I suppose however it is about
the succulent, sweet or acid fruits-the drupes and berriesyou chiefly enquire. The great mass of these are certainly
as vividly coloured as any fruits of temperate climes-more
so indeed, in many cases, than the flowers that precede them.
Call to mind the bright reds and yellows of the Peach-palm,
the Mango, the enlarged fleshy pear-like petiole of the

XXVII]
DR. SPRUCE
73
Cashew, &c. &c. Purple or almost black fruits, often with a
bloom on them, are found in many genera of Palms; in the
delicious little sloe-like fruits called Umirf (species of Humirium); in the Coczras-exquisite grape-like fruits hanging in
dense bunches from little trees of the order Artocarpeae
(Pouruma cecropiafolia, P. retusa, P. apiculata &c.). Among
the smaller Palms (Bactris and Geonoma) some have'bright
red, others black fruits. Papaws have the fruit yellow in the
species of the plain; in the mountain species greenish, although
some of the smaller ones have scarlet fruit. Myrtles (the
berried species, all of which have innocuous, although not
many sapid fruits) have in the great majority of Amazon
species, black-purple fruits; in some they are red and often
intensely acid; in others yellow, &c.
"Succulent fruits with a russet or grey coat are not
numerous on the Amazon. There, as elsewhere, they owe
that peculiarity to the cuticle minutely breaking up and
withering, yet still more or less firmly persisting. Of this
class are the very fine and large fruits called Cuma in the
Tupi language, yielded by two Apocyneous trees of the Rio
Negro (Couma triphylla and C. dulcis) and one of the Orinoko
(C. oblongc). The thickish russet rind contains seeds nestling
in copious pulp, which eats rather like the fruit of the Medlar
or Service, although far sweeter, whence the Portuguese
colonists called the tree Sorveira. The bark abounds in
thick, sweet and wholesome! milk, which is excellent glue.
" As the Greengage (whose coat is sometimes partly russetgrey) is the finest among European plums, so is the homelycoloured Cumi among all the fruits of the Rio Negro.
"I think I could count on my fingers (if I exclude the
melon-tribe) all the edible green drupes and berries of the
Rio Negro. The chief of them are the Alligator-pear and
some Custard-apples, although some of the latter have a
yellow, some a white, and some a red-purple rind."
Then among other home and private matters comes the
remark equally appropriate now, "What an awful state the
country is getting into! 'War and wasteful expenditure'
seems to be the key-note of our Government."

74
MY LIFE
[CHAP. XXVII]
The special points of interest in the above letter are its
complete confirmation of the views derived from European
plants, as to use of the colours of fruits in indicating those
which are edible for birds or arboreal mammals, while the
few exceptions as regards colour are of those large and very
sweet fruits whose attractions are sufficient without the signal
of bright colour. Again, the very frequent occurrence of
acrid or poisonous juice or milk in the bark and leaves,
protecting the young shoots and trees from herbivorous
animals, combined with perfectly innocuous and often agreeable fleshy or juicy fruits in order to assist in their dispersal,
so clearly implies a selective agency in two opposite directions
in the same species, as almost to amount to the required
demonstration of the existence of natural selection.
I cannot forbear calling attention to the extremely careful
wording and punctuation of these letters, written from a sick
couch, and of which I have not altered a word or a comma.
The clearness and accuracy with which the information is
conveyed fittingly corresponds with the writer's careful observation of every aspect and detail of plant life. Had his health
permitted more continuous work for a few years longer, he
would probably have given us a volume upon all the chief
aspects and relations of the vegetation of the forests and
mountains of equatorial America, which would have been of
the greatest scientific and popular interest.

CHAPTER XXVIII
MY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES-DR. PURLAND,
MR. SAMUEL BUTLER, PROFESSOR HAUGHTON
ONE of the most interesting, amusing, and eccentric men I
became acquainted with during my residence in London, and
with whom I soon became quite intimate, was Dr. T. Purland,
a dentist, living in Mortimer Street, Cavendish Square. He
was a stout, dark, middle-aged man, with somewhat Jewish
features, and of immense energy and vitality-one of those
men whose words pour out in a torrent, and who have always
something wise or witty to say. He had been a great coincollector, and had many anecdotes to tell of rarities hit upon
accidentally. He had an unbounded admiration for Greek
coins as works of art, and would dilate upon their beauties as
compared with the poor and inartistic works of our day.
He was something of an Egyptologist, and had many odds
and ends of antiquities, including teeth from mummies and
dentists' instruments found in the old tombs and sarcophagi.
He was a widower with three growing-up children, and had
been obliged to part with all the more valuable parts of his
collection to educate them.
He was a very powerful mesmerist, and helped, with Dr.
Elliotson and others, in establishing the mesmeric hospital
then in existence, and could succeed in sending patients into
the mesmeric trance when other operators failed. He was one
of the few men at that time who had been up in a balloon
(with Green, the celebrated aeronaut, I think), and one evening
at our house in St. Mark's Crescent, when Huxley and Tyndall
were present, he made some remarks which interested
Tyndall, who thereupon asked him many questions as to
his sensations, the general appearance of the earth, clouds, etc.,
75

76
MY LIFE
LCRAP.
to all of which Dr. Purland replied with such promptitude
and intelligence that all our friends were soon gathered
round to hear the discussion, which went on a long time.
Dr. Purland also possessed a most interesting series of
scrap-books, in which he had collected an immense number
of engravings and woodcuts from old magazines, papers, and
books, which, during his life in London, he had picked up at
bookstalls or among his friends. These were beautifully
arranged in a series of uniform quarto volumes, in some of
which he had illustrated his own second marriage by means
of a series of appropriate caricatures, showing the courtship,
the proposal, the ceremony, the wedding breakfast, the
departure, the wedding journey, with numerous incidents to
the return home; and occasionally among friends he would
go through all these, describing the various incidents in a
most humorous manner, so as to keep us all highly amused.
When he came to any of our evening receptions, he usually
appeared with one of these books under his arm, and it was
always a source of much interest to our guests. Besides
these books, he had a great collection of odd duplicate scraps,
some of which he used to gum on to the envelopes of letters
in place of a seal, or inside to illustrate some matter referred
to in the letter.
I possess about a dozen of his letters-replies to invitations, remarks on reading my early books, or other matters
-all so amusing and so well illustrating the character and
individuality of the man that I will now print some of them,
and give a few in facsimile to show his style of caricature
illustration.
The letter opposite was, I think, the first I had from him,
and I only give it to illustrate two of his peculiarites-his
gastronomical taste indicated by " Beer Month " for October,
and the " piece of plate " represented by hatf a beautiful little
print in blue of an old willow-pattern plate pasted in opposite
the signature.
The next letter is in answer to an invitation to tea, He
had been reading my " Malay Archipelago," and the reference

I

II-

-;"r OCI~

%~/om^&Ae 11114 ---- b.-  IO..7,: / )n>

w

1' 1 Of 0

%zc y

n. /4%Z

II?',

i

%ft k

C

to

II

--

/ -0%

"WIPW

_~rmr;     F.% *.

/,7

l

L[ofircep. 76, Vol,. II

4I#

OF -

ENVELOPE OF SECOND LETTER.
[Toface p. 77, VOL. II.

Iit
I

5,4~
090C~4L4
V
I(I*!
*
*4
i / t % 9~
/1/
-ow
701 77e
//
Tofacecp. 77, VoL. II.

XXVIII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
77
on the envelope (here reproduced) is to the description of
the king bird of paradise, and shows how he was able to
introduce appropriate cuts from his large stock. The letter
itself is in hieroglyphic form, intimating that he had other
engagements, indicating himself by his large nose and
scrap-book under his arm.
The next I shall give is an account of the sad results
of reading one of my books aloud. The heading is a
pseudonym for his operating room.
" Fang Castle, June, 1870,
" Therm. 774.
"Thanks worthy Signor for the entertainment afforded
by your Boke on Natural Selection. But good as'Natural
Selection' is, or maybe: I like Mutual Selection much better;
and to my thinking it is of much more importance: ex. gr.
mutual selection is this-A Lady asks me to become her
husband-I ax her to become my wife-that's Mutual Selection-aint it 'Natural'? The question of the ' fittest' is a
subsequent affair: as is the Creation by birth, etc., etc.
"But the pleasure was sadly and suddenly interrupted: I
was reading aloud, and got on pretty well through p. 90-9I.
At 92 Jaws ached terribly! but at p. 94 and 5, even vulcanite
could not stand it; and to my horror my upper set of teeth
gave way with a crash! divided between the right lateral and
the canine. I was helpless; and but for an old piece in
reserve, my enjoyment of a succulent Roast Pig would have
been entirely destroyed: it cost me dear-quite the value of a
collection: I must give up reading scientific (?) names aloud.
"I picked up a good specimen of Lignum ambulans for
a shilling a week ago: and it now forms a prominent feature
in our surgery. We are promised a Phyllium in a few days:
and a Kallima paralekta. The Rosa Canina is a puzzle at
present: I never saw a Red Canine tooth! Speaking of
teeth-Huxley in his Physiology says Bicuspids never have
more than two fangs-He knows nothing about it. I have
them with three-Molars with 4, 5, and 6! In my lecture
case, now before me, there are several: they are not as

78
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
common as dirt or earwigs in the country! but they often
turn up.
"I begin the second reading to-night-not aloud-oh no!
"With our best Salaam to the Lady, I remain
"Thine in amity,
"THEODOSIUS PURLAND."
The next letter is so wholly and heartily gastronomic
that it appeals to me strongly, and reveals the jovial character of the man so amusingly that it must not be omitted.
"Fang Castle, 7, Mortimer St., W.,
"Jan. 9, I870-I.
"Now you're wuss and wuss!
"Tuesday is the ' University' of the High-mighty and pious
College of Dentists of England, and everywhere else: the
'Collection' of Officers, and when I am to give an acct. of
all the four-penny pieces I have received during the yearfor, and on behalf of the Jaw-breakers in general, and the
Council in particular. We begin at 7-close when we have
no more to say; and adjourn to St. James's Hall feeding-Box,
for a trial of the Artificials!
"It was lucky I called there this morning. Our Sec. had
ordered a Cold Collation-Cold Veal, Ham and Fowls! COLD
DEVILS! You may as well eat a Hat-box or Fire-wood.
"I have ordered a Hot Supper-Ducks- Giblet PiesPlum-pudding, and such like Comforts-cold grub indeed, and
the Glass at 26~. So you see, as I cannot well be in two
places at once, and where Duty call one must obey, we shall
not have the pleasure of Banquetting upon the ' Cold Greens.'
"As to ' Alcohol '-I do not think I shall venture outAunt Loo is going to preside at a School treat in the shape of
T., Bunns, Plum cake and sundry indigestibles, one a MagicLanthorn, which they are to devour. Tom and his Cousin
Constance go as well: So I shall be alone, as the Gals are at
Torquay-capital place for females as it is all Talkee!
Talkde!-So, as I said before, I shall be alone-and I contemplate the utter destruction of a KIDNEY PUDDING! Think
of that, Master Brook-a Kidney pudding / and perhaps a bit
of steak or a Sausage or TWO, perhaps THREE: only two of usthe pudding and I! no weggibles, to take up the room the

- -- 0

-O& 6404%ous

/,:roq  4

4,

[ To face pi. 78, VOL I I

6 I/HA ^**f*t ff* OA - 5
/Orr_~~'"
f
[TThis drawinz, and znscription fo-rmed the heading of the third of Dr. Purland's
letters printed on the opposile page.]

xxvIII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
79
pudding ought to occupy! Oh no! And then the ale-think
of the ale-a fresh Cask-Nine Gallons, a shilling a Gallon!
goes down your throat like a wheel-barrow, washing out the
Corners preparatory to a fresh plate of pudding-the idea is
enchanting, and would, if set to Music, be overpowering!
Talk of quartettes and quintettes; what are they to a Solo
upon a Kidney pudding? Answer me that! No, you can't;
it is unanswerable! So with our blessing upon thee and
thine, I remain 'pretty much as usual,'
"Yours,
"T. PURLAND."
I presume the "cold greens" refers to some delicacy (perhaps lobster-salad) I had tempted him with, while "alcohol" in
the next line must imply an invitation to a "spiritual" seance
with some friends, which were very frequent about this period.
In like manner, he puts " university" for " anniversary," and
"collection" for "election"-all in the exuberance of his
spirits, which forbids his writing like other people. But the
frank, open, animal enjoyment of it all is equal to Falstaff or
Dumas's fat monk, Gorenflot, in " Chicot the Jester."
The next is all about family matters, but illustrated, and
in his best style.
"In obedience to thy orders we proceed to indicate the
positions of our satellites-I2-exact time; Thomas Theodosius Constantine is at Bryckden-a place seven miles from
everywhere. T. T. C. will make his triumphal entry into the
Victoria Station at 4.20 p.m., followed by all the game he hath
shot with his cross-bow, which we hope will not be more than
the porters can conveniently carry.
"Mary Ellen, commonly called NELL, is at Gravesend,
whacking into and keeping in order some juvenile cousinsthe progeny of the Rev. Sleap, Bp. Designative of Alsatia,
but at present holding forth at the parish Church of Ware.
"Louisa Harriett, commonly called Loo, is with her Aunt
Loo, at Gosport, superintending the getting up of the festivities necessary on the Marriage of their Cousin the Daughter
of Col. Wright (who has been where you tried to get and
didn't as mentioned in your Boke), and who has a great
desire to hold speech thereon.

80
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
"For ourselves we are supposed to be in charge of the
house, and Thomas Thedosius Constantine will perhaps be
at the Dovers, so that the probability is we shall be as thusA/Vw
"Thus much for this week; next week all the Chicks will
be beneath our wing, and probably able and willing to demolish, or assist in demolishing, any larder however large.
"SECULAR.
" We cancel that part relating to Loo and Aunt Loo-there
is a screw loose. Nell was to have been one of Six! Bridesmaids; but our hilarity on hearing of the absurdity hath given
offence. Nell therefore retires, and we are under a Kibosh!
" As soon as we are able to breathe, we will communicate.
" Thine,
" DENTATUS."

4&
0 -4
4-;

'7 -. rtz1oml;
CI~s4 -4/J9~
44m -i - /
go ~ - CD -- -..?,..A..,r,.^ _. l:
C~Ac
4i3L
MY,AST LETTER FROAM DR. PURLAND.
[ To fce p. 8, VOL. II.

XXVIII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES               81

The next letter refers chiefly to an eccentric friend of his,

Mr. Morgan Kavanagh, author of a work on "The Origin of

Language and of Myths," and always referred to by Purland

as "The Great O," on account of his fundamental idea that

(0) was the sign of the sun, the only permanently circular

object in nature, and that the word "0" was the original

name of the sun (from making the figure with the lips), and

was thus the origin of all language. The book, however, is

full of the most ingenious and suggestive derivations from

Sanscrit and the Eastern languages.

" Sept. 24, 1872.

"No! can't be a bigger man than you-I9 stone. Will

warm the only bed we have-as spare! But the nights are

fine, and a walk home after the Jaw won't hurt you.

" You can grub if you like on what we have. As to the

great 0, he was here on Saturday-Och Murther-as usual,

full of his diskivery-but it is all bosh.

"The true thing is this. Originally, man spoke by signs,

and no wonder-Adam and Eve spoke by signs only, until

one day Adam refused to go round the corner for some hardbake, which put Eve into a passion, and in her rage she broke

Adam's head with the bedpost, which made him cry '! ' and

Eve, alarmed at opening his head and mouth at one blow,

cried ' O' too. That's the origin of Language!

"Some think Adam said 'O Crikey,' but as he was

Crackey at the time it is uncertain.

"Thine,

" NASO."

The last I have was an anecdote of animal sagacity, a

subject then being discussed in the papers, and of which he

had given me some examples. I give a print of it, as it

is a good example of his caricature drawing and of one of

his fantastic signatures.

Our pleasant intimacy came to an end in a most absurd

manner. Dr. Purland was, as I have said, a powerful and

enthusiastic mesmerist, and had given his services for many

VOL. II.                   G

82
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
surgical operations. Just as the opposition of the chiefs of the
medical profession was dying away, and they were beginning
to acknowledge the great value of the mesmeric sleep in
alleviating pain and greatly facilitating serious operations, the
discovery of anaesthetics offered a rival, which, though much
more dangerous, was more certain and more easily applied in
emergencies, and this led to the discontinuance of the use of
mesmerism as a remedial agent. This naturally disgusted
Dr. Purland, who, with the whole energy of his character,
hated chloroform, ether, and nitrous-oxide gas, and would
have nothing to do with them in his profession. Besides, he
despised any one who could not bear 'the pain of toothdrawing, and would turn away any patient who required the
gas to be administered. A year or two after the date of his
last letter my teeth were in a very bad state, and I had a
number of broken stumps which required to be extracted
preparatory to having a complete set of artificials. Entirely
forgetting his objections, which, in fact, I had hardly believed
to be real, after making an appointment I asked him to get
a doctor to administer nitrous-oxide, as I could not stand the
pain of three or four extractions of stumps of molars in
succession. This thoroughly enraged him. He wrote me a
most violent letter, saying he could not continue to be the
friend of a man who could ask him to do such a thing, and
gave me the name of an acquaintance of his who had no such
scruples and whose work was thoroughly good. And that
was the last communication I ever had from Dr. Purland.
The dentist to whom he recommended me was really a
good workman, and made me a set of teeth which I wore
almost constantly for thirty years, and which I have never
had equalled since. While going about lecturing, and
especially when going to America in I886, I had new sets
made, and I think I have had altogether four complete sets
besides the first, but not one of them has been comfortable
or even wearable without great pain; with none could I eat
satisfactorily or speak distinctly, and though I pointed out to
each new dentist how well these old ones fitted me, and bow
comfortable they were, and begged each of them to make the

XXVIII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
83
new ones as nearly as possible the same shape, yet each one
made them differently, and some were so totally unlike that,
when placed side by side, no one would believe they could have
been made for the same mouth. My experience of modern
dentists is that they all want to improve upon nature, and care
nothing for the comfort of those who are to use the teeth.
I will occupy the remainder of this chapter with a few particulars of my relations with persons of some eminence, but
withwhom:I had very few opportunities of personal intercourse.
I made the acquaintance of Mr. Samuel Butler, the author
of "Erewhon," through my friend Miss Buckley, at whose
father's house on Paddington Green I met him two or three
times. He was so good as to send me that wonderfully
clever and original book, and also his less known satirical
religious story, " The Fair Haven," which was reviewed with
approval by some of the Church newspapers as a genuine
piece of biography, which it purports to be. He also sent me
"Life and Habit," and "Evolution Old and New," both of
which I reviewed in Nature in the year i879. The former
is a wonderfully ingenious, brilliant, and witty application of
the theory of Haeckel and others, that every animal cell, or
even every organic molecule, is an independent conscious
organism, with its likes and dislikes, its habits and instincts
like the higher animals. He explains instincts as inherited
memories, which, at the time he wrote, was a permissible
hypothesis, but is now almost universally rejected as implying
the inheritance of acquired characters, which all the available
evidence is opposed to. The book, however, is well worth
reading for its extreme ingenuity, logical arrangement, and
all-pervading wit and humour.
The other work is a very full and careful exposition of
the doctrines, as regards evolution, of Buffon, Lamarck,
Dr. Erasmus Darwin, Mr. Patrick Matthew, and some more
recent writers, with copious quotations from their works, and
an attempt to show not only that their views were of the same
general nature as those of Darwin, but were also of equal if
not greater importance. After reading the volume I wrote

84
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
the following letter to the author, which may be of interest to
those naturalists who either have not seen the work or who
have forgotten its essential features:"Waldron Edge, Duppas Hill, Croydon,
"May 9, I879.
"MY DEAR SIR,
"Please accept my thanks for the copy of 'Evolution Old and New,' and of' Life and Habit,' which you were
so good as to send me.
"I have just finished reading the former with mixed feelings of pleasure and regret. I am glad that a connected
account of the views of Buffon, Dr. Darwin, and Lamarck, and
especially of Mr. Patrick Matthew, should be given to the
world; but I am sorry that you should have, as I think, so
completely failed in a just estimation of the value of their
work as compared with that of Mr. Charles Darwin,-because
it will necessarily prejudice naturalists against you, and will
cause ' Life and Habit' to be neglected; and this I should
greatly regret.
" To my mind, your quotations from Mr. Patrick Matthew
are the most remarkable things in your whole book, because
he appears to have completely anticipated the main ideas
both of the ' Origin of Species' and of' Life and Habit.'
" I should have to write a long article to criticize your book
(which perhaps I may do). In your admiration of Lamarck
you do not seem to observe that his views are all pure conjecture, utterly unsupported by a single fact. Where has it
been proved that, in any one case, desires have caused variation? It is pure theory, with no fact to support it. And even
if desires might, in a long course of generations, produce some
effect, it can be demonstrated that in the same time 'natural
selection' or 'survival of the fittest' would produce so much
greater an effect as to overpower the other unless the two
worked together.
"I am sorry to see also much that seems to me mere
verbal quibbles. For instance, at p. 388 (last par.) you turn

XXVIII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
85
'spontaneous variability' into 'unknown causes,' and then,
of course, make nonsense of Mr. Darwin's words. In this
way I will undertake to make nonsense of any argument.
'Spontaneous variability' is a FACT, as explained, for
example, in my review of Mr. Murphy's book (along with
yours) in Nature. It is an absolutely universal fact in the
organic world (and for all I know in the inorganic too), and
is probably afundamentalfact, due to the impossibility of any
two organisms ever having been subjected to exactly identical
conditions, and the extreme complexity both of organisms
and their environment. This normal variability wants no
other explanation. Its absence is inconceivable, because it
would imply that diversity of conditions produced identity of
result. The wishes or actions of individuals may be one of
the causes of variability, but only one out of myriads. Now
to say that such an universal fact as this cannot be taken as
a basis of reasoning because the exact causes of it are
unknown in each ease, is utterly illogical. The causes of
gravitation, of electricity, of heat, of all the forces of nature
are unknown. Can we not, then, reason on them, and explain
other phenomena by them, without having the words 'unknown causes' substituted, and thus making nonsense?
"I am no blind admirer of Mr. Darwin, as my works
show; but I must say your criticism of him in your present
work completely fails to reach him.
"The mere fact that Lamarck's views, though well put
before the world for many years by Sir Charles Lyell (and
other writers) converted no one, while Darwin has converted
almost all the best naturalists in Europe, is a pretty good
proof that the one theory is more complete than the other.
"Yours very faithfully,
"ALFRED R. WALLACE."
In Nature (June 12) I reviewed this book more fully,
showing by numerous quotations how completely Mr.
Butler has failed to grasp the essential features of natural
selection, while a large portion of his criticism of Mr.
Darwin's work is purely verbal and altogether erroneous

86

MY LIFE

[CHAP.

and misleading. I received no reply either to my letter or to

the review.

When I was at Montreal in I887, Mr. Iles, the manager

of the Windsor Hotel in that city, called my attention to a

most humorous critical rhapsody  which Mr. Butler had

written after his recent visit to Canada and sent to the

Spectator. As I do not think it has appeared elsewhere,

and is a good example of his fantastic genius, I here give

it from a copy furnished me by Mr. Iles.

A PSALM OF MONTREAL.

[The city of Montreal is one of the most rising and, in many respects, most

agreeable on the American continent, but its inhabitants are as yet too busy with

commerce to care greatly about the masterpieces of old Greek Art. A cast, however, of one of these masterpieces-the finest of the several statues of Discoboli,

or Quoit-throwers-was found by the present writer in the Montreal Museum of

Natural History; it was, however, banished from public view, to a room where

were all manner of skins, plants, snakes, insects, etc., and in the middle of these,

an old man stuffing an owl. The dialogue-perhaps true, perhaps imaginary,

perhaps a little of one and a little of the other-between the writer and the old

man gave rise to the lines that follow.]

Stowed away in a Montreal lumber-room,

The Discobolus standeth, and turneth his face to the wall;

Dusty, cobweb-covered, maimed and set at naught,

Beauty crieth in an attic, and no man regardeth.

Oh God! oh Montreal!

Beautiful by night and day, beautiful in summer and winter,

Whole or maimed, always and alike beautiful,

He preacheth gospel of grace to the skins of owls,

And to one who seasoneth the skins of Canadian owls.

Oh God! oh Montreal!

When I saw him, I was wroth, and I said, " O Discobolus!

Beautiful Discobolus, a Prince both among gods and men,

What doest thou here, how camest thou here, Discobolus,

Preaching gospel in vain to the skins of owls? "

Oh God! oh Montreal!

And I turned to the man of skins, and said unto him," Oh! thou man of

skins,

Wherefore hast thou done this, to shame the beauty of the Discobolus?"

But the Lord had hardened the heart of the man of skins,

And he answered, " My brother-in-law is haberdasher to Mr. Spurgeon."

Oh God! oh Montreal!

XXVIII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
87
" The Discobolus is put here because he is vulgar,He hath neither vest nor pants with which to cover his limbs;
I, sir, am a person of most respectable connections,My brother-in-law is haberdasher to Mr. Spurgeon."
Oh God 1 oh Montreal!
Then I said, " O brother-in-law to Mr. Spurgeon's haberdasher!
Who seasonest also the skins of Canadian owls,
Thou callest 'trousers ' pants,' whereas I call them 'trousers,'
Therefore thou art in hell-fire, and may the Lord pity thee!
Oh God! oh Montreal!
" Preferrest thou the gospel of Montreal to the gospel of Hellas,
The gospel of thy connection with Mr. Spurgeon's haberdasher to the
gospel of the Discobolus? "
Yet none the less blasphemed he beauty saying, " The Discobolus hath
no gospel,But my brother-in-law is haberdasher to Mr. Spurgeon."
Oh God! oh Montreal!
In June, I863, an article appeared in the Annals and
Magazine of Natural History by the Rev. S. Haughton,
entitled " On the Bee's Cell and the Origin of Species." At
that time I was eager to enter the lists with any one who
attacked natural selection or Darwin's exposition of it. This
article was full of the usual errors and misconceptions, some
of the most absurd nature, but all set forth as if with the
weight of authority in a scientific periodical. I accordingly
replied in the October number of the Annals, and criticized
the critic rather severely. Mr. Haughton had written: "The
true cause of the shape of the cell is the crowding together of
the bees at work, as was first shown by Buffon"-a view
which Darwin had disproved both by observation of many
distinct species of bees, and by careful experiment with the
honey-bee, as I explained in the article. He then argues that
"if economy of wax" was the essential cause of the bees
forming hexagon cells out of circular ones, by gnawing away
the solid angles, as Darwin observed them doing, we ought
to find a series of species, some making triangular, others
square cells, because these are the forms which geometrically
come next to the hexagon in economy of wax to a given area!
quite overlooking the fact that the primitive cells are proved

88
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
to be circular, and that circles in contact cannot be changed
by any gradual process of modification involving saving of
wax into triangles or squares.
He then charges Darwin with three unwarrantable assumptions, which he declares he "brings to the ground like a
child's house of cards." These are (I) " The indefinite variation of species continuously in the one direction; " (2) " That
the causes of variation, viz. natural advantage in the struggle
for existence (Darwin), are sufficient to account for the effects
asserted to be produced;" and (3) "That succession implies
causation; that the Palaeozoic Cephalopoda produced the
red-sandstone fishes; that these in turn gave birth to the
Liassic reptiles, etc." I easily showed that all these alleged
"assumptions" of Darwin are absurd misrepresentations of
his real statements; and I concluded by applying his own
words with regard to Darwinians as being really applicable to
himself: "No progress in natural science is possible so long
as men will take their rude guesses at truth for facts, and
substitute the fancies of their imagination for the sober rules
of reasoning."
This criticism gave great offence to Dr. John Edward
Gray, of the British Museum, who, when I next met him, told
me that I ought not to have written in such a tone of ridicule
of a man who was much older and more learned than
myself.
Mr. Haughton, however, seems to have taken it in good
part and to have forgotten it, for eighteen years later, when
he was F.R.S., Senior Lecturer of Trinity College, and
Professor of Geology in Dublin University, he sent me a
copy of his "Lectures on Physical Geography," inscribed
"With the best respects of the author."
A little later I received from him the following letter:"Trinity College, Dublin, April, 25, 1882.
"MY DEAR MR. WALLACE,
"I have received your kind letter of 20th inst., for
which I feel much obliged. If the statements about gulfstreams in my last paper support your own views rather

XXVIII] FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES
89
than mine, no one will admit the result more readily than
myself
"C I fear that I shall not have the pleasure of seeing your
degree conferred on the 29th June, as I shall have to attend
the General Medical Council in London on the 27th June.
" I was asked by the Provost and Senior Fellows to
recommend two names for Honorary Degrees in Physical
and Natural Science, and I chose Dr. Siemens and yourself
as worthy representatives of the two 'poles of science.'
"I am, yours very truly,
" SAML. HAUGHTON."
Dr. Haughton did, however, return before I left Dublin,
and I had the great pleasure one morning of breakfasting
with him and the other members of the managing committee
at the Zoological Gardens, and of enjoying his instructive and
witty conversation. The brilliant midsummer morning, the
cosy room looking over the beautiful gardens, and the highly
agreeable and friendly party assembled rendered this one of
the many pleasant recollections of my life.

CHAPTER XXIX
SKETCH OF MY LIFE AND WORK, I87I-I886
HAVING now lived in London eight years, and having finished,
as I then thought, my chief literary work-my " Malay Archipelago "-I had a great longing for life in the country where
I could devote much of my time to gardening and rural
walks. My wife also was very fond of country life, so I
began to look about for a place in which to settle. At this
time it had been decided to build a museum in East London
to illustrate both art and nature, and having the strong
support and influence of Sir Charles Lyell, and through him
of Lord Ripon, I felt much too confident of obtaining the
directorship of it. I therefore determined to look out for a
suitable place in Essex, where I should have easy access to
the museum at Bethnal Green if I obtained the post, while,
at all events, land would be cheaper there than in the more
fashionable districts of the south and west.
As a kind of halfway house, I took an old cottage at
Barking-Holly Lodge-to which we moved in March, I870,
and where I was still almost in London. Though Barking
was a miserable kind of village, surrounded by marshes and
ugly factories, there were yet some pleasant walks along the
Thames and among the meadows, while within a quarter of
a mile of us was a well-preserved tumulus close to an old
farmhouse. Here, too, we had some very pleasant neighbours.
Sir Antonis Brady at Stratford, whom I had often visited with
my friend Silk, and who had a fine collection of fossils from
the gravels of the district; Mr. C. M. Ingleby, the Shakespearean commentator, who was interested in spiritualism;
90

[CH. XXIX] MY FRIENDS AND WORK, I87I1-886 91
and more especially Colonel Hope, V.C., who was living
at Parsloes, an old manor house within an easy walk, and
with whose amiable and intellectual family we spent many
pleasant Sunday afternoons. Colonel Hope had here laid
out a large sewage farm, and had for years carried out experiments demonstrating the fact that many agricultural
crops could be grown on absolutely sterilized sand by the
application of sewage in proper quantities. He had urged
that the whole of the London sewage, instead of being emptied
into the Thames near Barking, should be carried on to the
Maplin sands, where about ten thousand acres of land could
be reclaimed and fertilized so as to grow a large portion of
the vegetable food for London. This would have been the
cheaper method in the end, saving the pollution of the whole
tidal course of the Thames and the enormous annual cost of
dredging required to partially remedy that pollution. Instead
of this wasteful expenditure, the rental of the reclaimed land,
with the fertilizing sewage, might have been so large as to
fully repay the extra expenditure, and at the same time give
us an unpolluted stream in our capital city. But the plan was
too grand to be accepted, and we continue to pay the penalty.
In the following year I found near the village of Grays,
on the Thames, twenty miles from London, a picturesque old
chalk-pit which had been disused so long that a number of
large elms and a few other trees had grown up in its less
precipitous portions. The chalk here was capped by about
twenty feet of Thanet sand and pleistocene gravel, and from
the fields at the top there was a beautiful view over Erith
to the Kent hills and down a reach of the Thames to
Gravesend, forming a most attractive site for a house. After
some difficulty I obtained a lease for ninety-nine years of four
acres, comprising the pit itself, an acre of the field on the
plateau above, and about an equal amount of undulating
cultivable ground between the pit and the lane which gave
access to it. I had to pay seven pounds an acre rent, as the
owner could not sell it, and though I thought it very dear,
as so much of it was unproductive, the site was so picturesque,
and had such capabilities of improvement, that I thought it

92
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
would be a fair investment. The owner lived at Winchester,
and when I went down there to see him and arrange the
terms, I recall one little incident illustrating one of the great
social changes of the last thirty-five years. After our business
was settled and we had had some lunch, he offered to show me
the cathedral, and on our way there a gentleman passed us
on one of the early bicycles, which were then a comparative
novelty. As the cyclist passed, my companion remarked,
" There goes a fool upon rollers "-expressing a very common
opinion among the older portion of the community.
As there was a deep bed of rough gravel on my ground
and there were large cement works at Grays, I thought
it would be economical to build of concrete, and I found
an architect of experience, Mr. Wonnacott, of Farnham, who
made the plans and specifications, while I myself saw that
the gravel was properly washed. In order to obtain water
in ample quantity for building and also for garden and other
purposes, I had a well sunk about a hundred feet into a
water-bearing stratum of the chalk, and purchased a small iron
windmill with a two-inch force pump to obtain the water. I
made two small concrete ponds in the garden-one close to
the windmill-and had a large tank at the top of a low tower
to supply house water. My friend Geach, the mining engineer
whom I had met in Timor and Singapore, was now at home,
and took an immense interest in my work. He helped me
to find the windmill-the only one that we could discover in
any of the engineering shops in London-and the well being
completed, he and I, with the assistance of my gardener, did
all the work of fitting the pump at the bottom of the well
with connecting-rods and guides up to the windmill, which
also we erected and set to work ourselves. As the windmill
had no regulating apparatus, and, when the wind became
strong, revolved far too rapidly, and even bent the connectingrod, I attached to the ends of the iron vanes pieces of plate
iron about a foot square, fixed at right angles to the line of
motion. These acted as brakes as soon as the revolution
became moderately rapid, but had little effect when it was
slow; and the arrangement worked very well.

r
"THE DELL," GRAYS, ESSEX.
[Toface p. 92, VOL. II.

~7>, 1
OF
KIEV-1

XXIX] MY FRIENDS AND WORK, I87I-I886
93
With the help of another labourer I also myself laid down
is-inch galvanized water-pipes to the house, with branches and
taps where required in the garden. I also built concrete walls
round the acre of ground at top, the part facing south about
nine feet high for fruit trees, the rest about five feet; and also
laid out the garden, planted mounds for shelter, made a
winding road from below, which, when the shrubs had grown
up, became exceedingly picturesque; and helped to sift out
hundreds of cubic yards of gravel to improve the land for
the kitchen garden. All this work was immensely interesting,
and I have seldom enjoyed myself more thoroughly, especially as my friend Geach was a continual visitor, was always
ready with his help and advice, and took as much interest in
the work as I did myself. We got into the house in March,
1872, and I began to take that pleasure in gardening, and
especially in growing uncommon and interesting as well as
beautiful plants, which in various places, under many difficulties and with mingled failures and successes, has been a
delight and solace to me ever since.
During my four and a half years' residence at Grays I
received visits from several foreigners of eminence, among
whom I especially recollect three. Russians-Hon. Alexander
Aksakoff, who may almost be called the Myers of Russian
and German spiritualism; Professor Boutleroff, a biologist
and also a spiritualist; and V. S. Solovyoff, also a spiritualist.
These were all delightful people, and they somewhat amused
my wife and myself by their enjoyment of the few delicacies
we were able to give them. On one of the occasions we
had a fine crop of peaches on our concrete wall, small, but
very delicious, and we had feasted on them for some time.
So we put a handsome dish containing a dozen or more
on the tea-table, and as our Russian visitor seemed greatly
to appreciate them, we pressed him to eat as many as he
liked, and he took us at our word and finished the dish.
Another time we had some very good orange-marmalade
on the table, which we offered with bread and butter, but
our guest said, "No; with my tea"-so he asked for half
a cup of tea, of course without milk or sugar, in the Russian

94
MY LI FE
[C HAP
fashion, and then put spoonful after spoonful of marmalade
in, till the cup was full. "That is very nice," he said; and
he had another cup of the same mixture. I love delicacies
myself, and these little eccentricities interested me; but I
draw the line at marmalade and tea.
At this time I was somewhat doubtful in what particular
direction to work, as I found that I could not now feel sufficient interest in any branch of systematic zoology to devote
myself to the minute study required for the classification and
description of any important portion of my collections. There
were many other men who could do that better than I could,
while my special tastes led me to some work which involved
a good deal of reasoning and generalization. It was, I think,
my two friends, Professor A. Newton and Dr. Sclater, who
urged me to undertake a general review of the geographical
distribution of animals, and after a little discussion of the
subject I came to the conclusion that I might perhaps be
able to do it; although, if I had been aware of the
difficulties of the task, I should probably not have undertaken it.
As this was the largest and perhaps the most important
scientific work I have done, I may perhaps be allowed here
to say a few words as to its design and execution. I had
already, in several of my papers and articles, explained my
general views of the purport and scope of geographical distribution as a distinct branch of biological science. I had
accepted and supported Dr. P. L. Sclater's division of the
earth's surface into six great zoological regions, founded upon
a detailed examination of the distribution of birds, but equally
applicable to mammalia, reptiles, and several other great
divisions, and best serving to illustrate and explain the
diversities and apparent contradictions in the distribution of
all land animals; and I may now add that the additional
facts accumulated, and the various divisions suggested during
the thirty years that have since elapsed, have not in the least
altered my opinions on this matter.
In whatever work I have done I have always aimed at

XXIX] MY FRIENDS AND WORK, 1871-1886
95
systematic arrangement and uniformity of treatment throughout. But here the immense extent of the subject, the overwhelming mass of detail, and above all the excessive diversities
in the amount of knowledge of the different classes of animals,
rendered it quite impossible to treat all alike. My preliminary studies had already satisfied me that it was quite
useless to attempt to found any conclusions on those groups
which were comparatively little known, either as regards the
proportion of species collected and described, or as regards
their systematic classification. It was also clear that as the
present distribution of animals is necessarily due to their past
distribution, the greatest importance must be given to those
groups whose fossil remains in the more recent strata are the
most abundant and the best known. These considerations
led me to limit my work in its detailed systematic groundwork, and study of the principles and laws of distribution, to
the mammalia and birds, and to apply the principles thus
arrived at to an explanation of the distribution of other
groups, such as reptiles, fresh-water fishes, land and freshwater shells, and the best-known insect-orders.
There remained another fundamental point to consider.
Geographical distribution in its practical applications and
interest, both to students and the general reader, consists of
two distinct divisions, or rather, perhaps, may be looked at
from two points of view. In the first of these we divide the
earth into regions and subregions, study the causes which
have led to the differences in their animal productions, give a
general account of these, with the amount of resemblance to
and difference from other regions; and we may also give lists
of the families and genera inhabiting each, with indications
as to which are peculiar and which are also found in adjacent
regions. This aspect of the study I term zoological geography,
and it is that which would be of most interest to the resident
or travelling naturalist, as it would give him, in the most
direct and compact form, an indication of the numbers and
kinds of animals he might expect to meet with.
But a large number of students now limit themselves to
a study of one of the classes, or even orders, of the higher

96
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
96 M IE[HP
animals from all parts of the world, and it is of special
interest to him to be able to see at a glance how each family
and genus is distributed, with the number of known species.
He thus see what are the deficiencies in his collection, and
from what countries he most needs additional species; and all
this information I wished to give him, as I had often felt
the want of it myself. This part of the work I termed
it geographical zoology," and to this I gave special attention,
and have given for every family of mammals, birds, and reptiles
a diagram, which in a single line exhibits its distribution in
each of the four subregions of the six regions. To give the
reader some idea of this compact method of summarizing
information, I will give here its application to one family of
mammalia:
FAMILY 50-CERVIDIE (8 genera 52 species).
Neotropical Nearctic Palaearctic Etbiopian Oriental Australian
Subregions. Subregions. Subregions. Subregions. Subregions. Subregions.
1,2,3,- 1,2,3,4, 1,2,3,4, _I__ 1,2,3,4, 1, --
Here the distribution of the true deer over the earth is
shown at a glance when once the limits of the regions and
subregions are learnt, as marked on the general and special
maps by which the book is illustrated. The work was
published in 1876, in two thick volumes, and it had occupied
a good deal of my time during the four years I lived at Grays.
As this book, being very costly and technical, is less known
to English readers than any of my other works, I will here
give the titles of the chapters, which will sufficiently indicate
the range of subjects treated in its eleven hundred pages
PART I.-THE PRINCIPLES AND GENERAL PHENOMENA OF
DISTRIBUTION.
Chap. I. Introductory.
II. The means of Dispersal and the Migrations of Animals.
III. Distribution as affected by the Conditions and Changes of the
Earth's Surface.
IV. The Zoological Regions.,, V. Classification as affecting the Study of Geographical Distribution.

xXIX] LITERARY WORK, ETC., 187I-I886

97

PART II. --ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

Chap. VI. The Extinct Mammalia of the Old World.,, VII. Extinct Mammalia of the New World.,, VIII. Various Extinct Animals; and on the Antiquity of the

Genera of Insects and Land Shells.

PART III.-ZOOLOGICAL GEOGRAPHY: A REVIEW OF THE CHIEF

FORMS OF LIFE IN THE SEVERAL REGIONS AND SUBREGIONS,

WITH THE INDICATIONS THEY AFFORD OF GEOGRAPHICAL

CHANGES.

Chap. IX. The Order of Succession of the Regions-Cosmopolitan

Groups of Animals-Tables of Distribution.

X. The Palaearctic Region., XI. The Ethiopian Region.

XII. The Oriental Region.

XIII. The Australian Region.,XIV. The Neotropical Region., XV. The Nearctic Region., XVI. Summary of the Past Changes and General Relations of

the Several Regions.

PART IV.-GEOGRAPHICAL ZOOLOGY: A SYSTEMATIC SKETCH OF THE

CHIEF FAMILIES OF LAND ANIMALS IN THEIR GEOGRAPHICAL

RELATIONS.

Chap. XVII. Distribution of the Families and Genera of Mammalia.,, XVIII. Distribution of the Families and Genera of Birds.,, XIX. Distribution of the Families and Genera of Reptiles and

Amphibia.,, XX. Distribution of the Families of Fishes, with the Range of

such Genera as inhabit Fresh Water.,, XXI. Distribution of some of the more important Families and

Genera of Insects.,, XXII. Outline of the Geographical Distribution of Mollusca.,, XXIII. Summary of the Distribution and Lines of Migration of

the Several Classes of Animals.

I devoted a large amount of labour to making a fairly

complete index, which comprises more than six thousand

entries.

No one is more aware than myself of the defects of the

work, a considerable portion of which are due to the fact that

it was written a quarter of a century too soon-at a time when

VOL. II.                         H

98
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
both zoological and paleontological discovery were advancing
with great rapidity, while new and improved classifications of
some of the great classes and orders were in constant progress.
But though many of the details given in these volumes would
now require alteration, there is no reason to believe that the
great features of the work and general principles established
by it will require any important modification. Its most
severe critics are our American cousins, who, possessing a
"region" of their own, have been able to explore it very
rapidly; while from several references made to it, I think it is
appreciated on the European continent more than it is in our
own country.
While this work was in progress I wrote a considerable
number of reviews and articles, published my book on
"Miracles and Modern Spiritualism," and wrote the article
"Acclimatization " for the " Encyclopaedia Britannica."
In I876 I sold the house at Grays and removed to Dorking,
where we lived two years. But finding the climate relaxing,
we moved next to Croydon, chiefly in order to send our
children first to a kindergarten, and then to a high school,
and remained there till May, I88I.
During this period, besides my usual reviews and articles,
I prepared my address as president of the Biological Section
of the British Association at Glasgow, wrote the article on
" Distribution-Zoology " for the " Encyclopaedia Britannica,"
and prepared a volume on " Tropical Nature," which was published in I878. In this work I gave a general sketch of the
climate, vegetation, and animal life of the equatorial zone of
the tropics from my own observations in both hemispheres.
The chief novelty was, I think, in the chapter on "climate,"
in which I endeavoured to show the exact causes which produced the great difference between the uniform climate of
the equatorial zone, and, say, June and July in England,
although at that time we receive actually more of the light
and heat of the sun than does Java in June or Trinidad in
December. Yet these places have then a mean temperature
very much higher than ours. It contained also a chapter on

ALFRED R. WALLACE. i878.
[ To fa ce.,A. 9 8, Vo0L. II1.

IOF I
\* Q
IIrlZ

XXIX] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I87I-I886
99
humming birds, as illustrating the luxuriance of tropical
nature; and others on the colours of animals and of plants,
and on various biological problems.
As soon as we were settled at Croydon, I began to work
at a volume which had been suggested to me by the necessary limitations of my "Geographical Distribution of Animals."
In that work I had, in the first place, dealt with the larger
groups, coming down to families and genera, but taking no
account of the various problems raised by the distribution
of particular species. In the next place, I had taken little
account of the various islands of the globe, except as forming
subregions or parts of subregions. But I had long seen the
great interest and importance of these, and especially of
Darwin's great discovery of the two classes into which they
are naturally divided-oceanic and continental islands. I
had already given lectures on this subject, and had become
aware of the great interest attaching to them, and the great
light they threw upon the means of dispersal of animals and
plants, as well as upon the past changes, both physical and
biological, of the earth's surface. In the third place, the
means of dispersal and colonization of animals is so connected with, and often dependent on, that of plants, that a
consideration of the latter is essential to any broad views as
to the distribution of life upon the earth, while they throw
unexpected light upon those exceptional means of dispersal
which, because they are exceptional, are often of paramount
importance in leading to the production of new species and
in thus determining the nature of insular floras and faunas.
Having no knowledge of scientific botany, it needed some 1
courage, or, as some may think, presumption, to deal with
this aspect of the problem; but, on the other hand, I had
long been excessively fond of plants, and was always interested in their distribution. The subject, too, was easier
to deal with, on account of the much more complete knowledge of the detailed distribution of plants than of animals,
and also because their classification was in a more advanced
and stable condition. Again, some of the most interesting

I00
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
of the islands of the globe had been carefully studied botanically by such eminent botanists as Sir Joseph Hooker, for
the Galapagos, New Zealand, Tasmania, and the Antarctic
islands; Mr. H. C. Watson for the Azores; Mr. J. G. Baker
for Mauritius and other Mascarene islands; while there were
floras by competent botanists of the Sandwich Islands, Bermuda, and St. Helena. With such excellent materials, and
with the further assistance of Sir Joseph Hooker's invaluable
essays on the relations of the southern and northern floras, I
felt that my work would be mainly of a statistical nature, as
interpreted by those general principles of organic evolution
which were my especial study.
But I also found it necessary to deal with a totally distinct branch of science-recent changes of climate as dependent on changes of the earth's surface, including the causes
and effects of the glacial epoch, since these were among the
most powerful agents in causing the dispersal of all kinds of
organisms, and thus bringing about the actual distribution
that now prevails. This led me to a careful study of Mr.
James Croll's remarkable works on the subject of the astronomical causes of glacial and interglacial periods, and I had
much correspondence with him on difficult points of his
theory. While differing on certain details, I adopted the
main features of his theory, combining with it the effects of
changes in height and extent of land which form an important
adjunct to the meteorological agents. To this subject I
devoted two of my longest and most argumentative chapters,
introducing many considerations not before taken account of,
and leading, I still think, to a more satisfactory explanation
of the causes that actually brought about the glacial epoch
than any which have since been put forth.
Besides this partially new theory of the causes of glacial
epochs, the work contained a fuller statement of the various
kinds of evidence proving that the great oceanic basins are
permanent features of the earth's surface, than had before
been given; also a discussion of the mode of estimating the
duration of geological periods, and some considerations leading to the conclusion that organic change is now less rapid

XXIX] LITERARY WORK, ETC., i87i-i886
IOI
than the average, and therefore that less time is required for
this change than has hitherto been thought necessary. I was
also, I believe, the first to point out the great differences
between the more ancient continental islands and those of
more recent origin, with the interesting conclusions as to
geographical changes afforded by both; while the most
important novelty is the theory by which I explained the
occurrence of northern groups of plants in all parts of the
southern hemisphere-a phenomenon which Sir Joseph
Hooker had pointed out, but had then no means of explaining.
This volume, on "Island Life," involved much detailed
work as regards the species of plants and animals, information
on which points I had to obtain from numerous specialists,
involving a great amount of correspondence; while it wvas
illustrated by a large number of maps and diagrams, most
of which were drawn by myself. The preparation and writing
this book occupied me for about three years, and it was
published in i88o. It has gone through three editions, which
have involved a large amount of corrections and additions;
and it is a work which seems to have opened up a new world
of interesting fact and theory to a large number of readers,
from several of whom I have received letters expressing the
delight and instruction it has given them.
In i878 I wrote a volume on Australasia for Stanford's
"Compendium of Geography and Travel," in which I gave
a fuller account than usual of the physical geography, the
natural history, and the geology of Australia. In a later
edition of this work, in I893, I gave a much fuller account of
the natives of Australia, and adduced evidence for the theory
that they are really a primitive type of the great Caucasian
family of mankind, and are by no means so low in intellect
as has been usually believed. This view seems now to be
generally accepted.
In 1878 Epping Forest had been acquired for the public,
and its care and management were given to a committee
formed mainly of members of the Corporation of the City of
London. I was a candidate for the post of superintendent,
and obtained testimonials from the presidents of all the

102
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
natural-history societies of London, and from many eminent
men, but was not chosen. At the time this was a great disappointment, but I have reason to believe now that it was
" all for the best."
In I881 a society was formed for advocating the nationalization of the land, of which I was elected president, and in
1882 I published a volume, entitled "Land Nationalization:
its Necessity and its Aims." Some account of this movement will be given in a future chapter. Its publication
brought me letters of sympathy and general agreement from
Sir David Wedderburn, M.P., Lord Mount-Temple, and
many other friends and correspondents. In this year, on
June 29, the Dublin University gave me the honorary degree
of LL.D., as already mentioned in the last chapter. I will
here give the very short but flattering Latin speech of the
public orator in introducing me, with a translation by my
friend Mr. Comerford Casey"Introduco quoque ALFREDUM RUSSEL WALLACE, Darwinii aemulum, immo Darwinium alterum. Neque hunc
neque illum variae eluserunt species atque ora ferarum. Darwinius nempe lauri foetus auricomos decerpsit primus. Sed
quid querimur?
"'Primo'avulso non deficit alter
Aureus, et simili frondescit virga metallo.'"
"I introduce also Alfred Russel Wallace, the friendly
rival of Darwin. Equally familiar to both are the different
species and varieties of animals. Darwin, indeed, was the
first to pluck the golden laurel-branch. Yet through this did
Wallace suffer no eclipse; for as Virgil sang"'One branch removed, another was to hand:
Another, bright and golden as the first."'
In this year, too, the world was made poorer by the
death of my kind friend and teacher, Charles Darwin, and I
was honoured by an invitation to his funeral (on April 26)
in Westminster Abbey, as one of the pall-bearers, along
with nine of his most distinguished friends or admirers,

i$K\
lo%

.)%en 4 I
It wzpvr~
0, ",S -,
t* -11 D
" NUTWOOD COTTAGE," GODALMING.
[To face p. IO3, VOL. II.

XXIX] LITERARY WORK, ETC., 187I-I886
I0o3
among whom was J. Russell Lowell, as the representative
of American science and literature. Among the many
obituary notices of Darwin, that by Huxley (in Natuzre, of
April 27) is one of the shortest, most discriminating, and
most beautiful. It is published also in the second volume of
his " Collected Essays." For those who have not read this
true and charming estimate of his friend, I may quote one
passage: "One could not converse with Darwin without
being reminded of Socrates. There was the same desire to
find some one wiser than himself; the same belief in the
sovereignty of reason; the same ready humour; the same
sympathetic interest in all the ways and works of men. But
instead of turning away from the problems of nature as wholly
insoluble, our modern philosopher devoted his whole life to
attacking them in the spirit of Heraclitus and Democritus,
with results which are as the substance of which their speculations were anticipatory shadows."
In the year I88I I removed to Godalming, where I had
built a small cottage near the water-tower and at about the
same level as the Charterhouse School. We had been partly
induced to come here to be near my very old friend Mr.
Charles Hayward, whom I had first known during my
residence at Neath about forty years before. He was living
with his nephew, the late C. F. Hayward, a well-known architect, whose children were about the same age as my own.
We found here some very pleasant friends among the masters
at Charterhouse School, as well as among residents who had
come to the place for its general educational advantages or
for the charm of its rural scenery. We had here about half
an acre of ground with oak trees and hazel bushes (from
which I named our place "Nutwood Cottage"), and during
the eight years we lived there I thoroughly enjoyed making
a new garden, in which, and a small greenhouse, I cultivated
at one time or another more than a thousand species of
plants. The soil was a deep bed of the Lower Greensand
formation, with a thin surface layer of leaf-mould, and it was
very favourable to many kinds of bulbous plants as well as

104
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
half-hardy shrubs, several of which grew there more freely
and flowered better than in any of my other gardens.
In 1884 Messrs. Pears offered a prize of ~Ioo for the best
essay on "The Depression of Trade," and Professor Leone
Levi had agreed to be one of the judges. As I had been
for some time disgusted with the utter nonsense of many of
the articles on the subject in the press, while what seemed to
me the essential and fundamental causes were never so much
as referred to, I determined to compete, though without any
expectation of success. The essay was sent in some time
during the summer of I885, and in July I received a letter
from Professor Leone Levi, in which he writes: " My colleague
and myself were greatly pleased with the essay bearing a motto
from Goldsmith. We, however, did not see our way to recommend it for the prize, especially on account of disagreement
as to the remedies suggested. But, the essay having great
merit, we thought it proper to open the envelope in order
to correspond with the author."
He then asked me if I would allow the first part of my
essay, upon " Conditions and Causes," to be printed with the
other essays.
As my proposed remedies were the logical conclusion
from the " Conditions and Causes," which I had detailed, and
of which the validity seemed to be admitted, I of course
declined this offer, and Messrs. Macmillan agreed to publish
it under the title, "Bad Times: An Essay on the Present
Depression of Trade, tracing it to its Sources in enormous
Foreign Loans, excessive War Expenditure, the Increase of
Speculation and of Millionaires, and the Depopulation of the
Rural Districts; with Suggested Remedies."
This little book was widely noticed, but most of the
reviewers adverted to the fact that I was an advocate
of land-nationalization, and therefore that my proposed
remedies were unsound. But a few were more open-minded.
The Newcastle Chronicle declared it to be " the weightiest contribution to the subject made in recent times." The Freeman's
Yournal thus concluded its short notice: "Every point is driven

XXIX] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I87I-I886
o05
home with vigour and directness, and the little book is well
calculated to assist in the formation of sound views upon the
urgent question of which it treats." The Beacon (Boston,
U.S.A.) termed it "a very important little book," and gave
it a wholly favourable review; but the notice that pleased
me most was that in Knowledge, then edited by Richard
Proctor, a man of originality and genius. He declared that
my book was remarkable as being the application of scientific
method to a complex problem of political economy, which, of
course, rendered it impossible for the official representatives
of that science to accept its conclusions. The book, however,
had very little sale, and after a few years the publishers sent
me about a hundred copies, which remained an incumbrance
to their shelves, and which I gave away. It is, therefore, at
present, one of the rarest of my books. In the same year
I wrote my first small contribution to the literature of
anti-vaccination, entitled "Forty-five Years of Registration Statistics, proving Vaccination to be both Useless and
Dangerous;" but this subject will be referred to in a future
chapter.
Towards the close of the year I received an invitation
from the Lowell Institute of Boston, U.S.A., to deliver a
course of lectures in the autumn and winter of I886. After
some consideration I accepted this, and began their preparation, taking for my subject those portions of the theory of
evolution with which I was most familiar. At this time I had
made the acquaintance of the Rev. J. G. Wood, the well-known
writer of many popular works on natural history. He had
been twice on lecturing tours to America, and gave me some
useful information, besides recommending an agent he had
employed, and who had arranged lectures for him at various
schools and colleges. I had already lectured in many English
towns on the permanence of the great oceans, on oceanic and
continental islands, and on various problems of geographical
distribution. To these subjects I now added one on "The
Darwinian Theory," illustrated by a set of original diagrams
of variation. I also wrote three lectures on the " Colours of
Animals (and Plants)," dwelling especially on protective

Io6
MY LIFE
[CHAP. XXIX.]
colours, warning colours, and mimicry, and for these I
had to obtain a series of lantern slides coloured from nature,
so as to exhibit the most striking examples of these curious
and beautiful phenomena. All this took a great deal of time,
and the maps and diagrams forming a large package, about
six feet long in a waterproof canvas case, caused me much
trouble, as some of the railways refused to take it by passenger
trains, and I had to send it as goods; and in one case it got
delayed nearly a week, and I had to give my lectures with
hastily made rough copies from recollection.
The lectures I finally arranged for the Lowell course were
eight in number, to be given twice a week in November and
December. As these lectures formed the groundwork for my
book on Darwinism, I will here give their titlesI. The Darwinian Theory: what it is, and how it has been
demonstrated.
2. The Origin and Uses of the Colours of Animals.
3. Mimicry, and other exceptional modes of Animal
Coloration.
4. The Origin and Uses of the Colours of Plants.
5. The Permanence of Oceans, and the relations of Islands
and Continents.
6. Oceanic Islands and their Biological History.
7. Continental Islands: their Past History and Biological
Relations.
8. The Physical and Biological Relations of New Zealand
and Australia.
Shortly before I left England I gave the lecture on
"Darwinism" to the Essex Field Club in order to see how
my diagrams of variation struck an intelligent audience, and
was fairly satisfied with the result.
I left London on October 9 in a rather slow steamer in
order to have a cabin to myself at a moderate price, and
landed at New York on the 23rd, after a cold and disagreeable passage. A sketch of my American tour will be given
in the following chapters.

CHAPTER XXX
AN AMERICAN LECTURE TOUR-BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
WHEN I left home I had some idea of extending my journey
across the Pacific, lecturing in New Zealand and Australia,
perhaps also in South Africa, on my way home. But my
voyage out was so disagreeable, making me sick and unwell
almost the whole time, that I concluded it would not be wise
to extend my sea voyages except under very favourable conditions, which did not occur. One of these was the success of
my American tour, but owing to my agent not being a good
one, or, perhaps, to my not being sufficiently known in
America, I was kept throughout the winter in Washington
waiting for lecture engagements, which did not come till
March and April.
On reaching New York (October 23), I had my first
experience of American prices by having to pay two dollars
for a cab to the American Hotel, not a mile off, where I was
obliged to go for the night. The next morning (Sunday) I
went to stay for a few days with Mr. A. G. Browne, a gentleman on one of the New York daily papers who had called on
me at Godalming in the summer. On the way to his house
we drove to the picturesque Central Park, in the company of
Henry George, the well-known author of " Progress and
Poverty," who was then a candidate for the important post of
Mayor of New York, and who had been invited by Mr.
Browne to meet me. The next evening I attended one of
his meetings, and was called upon to say a few words to an
American audience. I tried my best to be forcible, praised
George, and said a few words about what we were doing
107

Io8
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
in England, but I could see that I did not impress them
much.
As Mr. Browne's occupation was to summarize all the
evening papers for the morning's issue, his work was from
midnight till four in the morning. Then all the forenoon he had
to do the same thing with the morning papers for the evening
issue, getting his sleep in the early morning and afternoon.
One day he got free in order to take me up the Hudson river
as far as West Point, passing the celebrated "Palisades "-a
continuous row of cliffs about two hundred feet high, and
extending for nearly twenty miles on the south bank of the
river. They look exactly like a huge fence of enormous split
trees, placed vertically, side by side, but are really basaltic
columns like those at the Giant's Causeway, crowning a
slope of fallen rock. In places the well-wooded country
was very beautiful, with the autumnal tints of bright red,
purple, and yellow, though we were a little late to see them in
perfection. Where we landed, I was delighted to see wild
vines clambering over the trees, as well as the Virginia
creeper, and there were also sumachs and other characteristic
American plants. The situation of the great American
Military College is splendid, on an elevated promontory in a
bend of the Hudson, surrounded by rugged wooded hills, and
with magnificent views up and down the river.
On the 28th I went to Boston to be ready for my first
lecture on November I. I had been recommended by Mr.
J. G. Wood to go to the Quincy House, as being moderate in
charges, and celebrated for its excellent table. I stayed
there nearly two months, and was, on the whole, very comfortable; but it was essentially a business man's hotel, and I
made no interesting acquaintances there. My scientific
friends told me I ought to have gone to a better hotel, but
as these were all four or five dollars a day, with no better
accommodation than I had at three dollars, I did not care to
change. As I never had better meals at any hotel I stayed
at in America (except, perhaps, in San Francisco), I may
quote my description of them in a letter to my daughter
while they were new to me. "You ought to see the meals at

xxx]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
IO9
this hotel! The bill of fare at dinner (i to 3 o'clock) has
generally two kinds of soup, two of fish, about twenty to
thirty different dishes of meat, poultry, and game, a dozen
sorts of pastry, a dozen of vegetables, besides ices, and whatever fruits are in season. You can order anything you like
in any combination, and they are brought in little dishes,
which are arranged around your plate. Everything is good
and admirably cooked. The pies and puddings are equally
good. At breakfast and supper there is about half the
number of dishes."
During the whole time I was in America I had a wonderful appetite, and ate much more than I did at home, and
enjoyed excellent health. I imputed this at the time to the
more bracing air, the novelty, and the excitement. But from
subsequent events I am inclined to think that I really did not
eat enough nourishing food at home, although I had what I
liked best, and seemed to eat plenty of it.
At my first lecture on " The Darwinian Theory," I had a
crowded and very attentive audience, and the newspaper
notices the next morning showed that it was a success. One
of the shortest and best of these was in The Transcript, and
was as follows:
"The first Darwinian, Wallace, did not leave a leg for
anti-Darwinism to stand on when he had got through his first
Lowell lecture last evening. It was a masterpiece of condensed statement-as clear and simple as compact-a most
beautiful specimen of scientific work. Mr. Wallace, though
not an orator, is likely to become a favourite as a lecturer,
his manner is so genuinely modest and straightforward."
During the time my lectures were going on I occupied
myself at the museums, libraries, and institutions of Boston,
and paid a few visits in the country. I soon made the
acquaintance of Dr. Asa Gray, the first American botanist,
General Walker, the political economist, Messrs. Hyatt,
Scudder, Morse, and other biologists; while Mr. Houghton,
the publisher, who was very polite, asked me to call at his
office to read whenever I liked, and invited me to dinner to
meet Oliver Wendell Holmes. I met the Autocrat of the

IIO
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Breakfast Table several times afterwards, and once called at
his house and had a two hours' private conversation. He was
very interesting from his constant flow of easy conversation;
but when we were alone he turned our talk on Spiritualism,
in which he was much interested and which he was evidently
inclined to accept, though he had little personal knowledge
of the phenomena.
The National Academy of Science was now sitting at
Boston, and I attended several of its meetings, at one of
which I heard Professor Langley explain his wonderful discovery of the extension of the heat-spectrome by means of
his new instrument, the bolometer. At another meeting
Professor Cope read a paper, while Professor Marsh was in
the chair, evidently to his great annoyance, as the relations of
these great paleontologists were much as were those of Owen
and Huxley after I86o. At another meeting the question of
geographical distribution came up, and Professor Asa Gray
called on me to say something. I was rather taken aback,
and could think of nothing else but the phenomena of seed
dispersal by the wind, as shown by the varying proportion of
endemic species in oceanic islands, and by the total absence
in the Azores of all those genera whose seeds could not be
air-borne (either by winds or birds), thus throwing light upon
some of the most curious facts in plant-distribution. I think
the subject, as I put it, was new to most of the naturalists
present.
I went several times to Cambridge in order to examine
carefully the two important museums there-the Agassiz
Museum of Zoology and the Peabody Museum of Archaeology. Both are admirable, and Mr. Alexander Agassiz
kindly showed me over every part of the former museum, an
account of which I have given in the second volume of my
"Studies, Scientific and Social."
One day I spent at Salem on a visit to Professor Edward
Morse and his pleasant family. He had lived several years
in Japan, and had made a very extensive collection of
Japanese pottery, ancient and modern. He has about four
thousand specimens, all distinct, many of great rarity and

xxx]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
I II
value. I also dined with Professor Asa Gray to meet most of
the biological professors of Harvard University. After dinner
he asked me to give them some account of how I was led
to the theory of natural selection, and this was followed by
some interesting conversation.
One evening I was invited to a meeting of the New
England Women's Club, where the Rev. J. G. Brooks gave
an address on "What Socialists want." I could hardly
make out whether he was a socialist or not, but I thought
his views to be very vague and unpractical. I was not at
that time a thorough socialist, but considered that a true
" social economy " founded on land nationalization and
equality of opportunity was what was immediately required.
When called upon, I spoke in this sense for about half an
hour. I afterwards wrote it out, treating it more systematically, and read it to a private meeting of my friends at
Washington. Its substance is embodied in the chapter on
"Economic and Social Justice" in my "Studies."
After my earlier Lowell lectures were over, I was free to
give them elsewhere, and had a few very interesting engagements. On November i9 I went to Williamstown, in the
extreme north-west corner of Massachusetts, to lecture at
Williams College on " Colours of Animals." The lecture was
appreciated, but, unfortunately, the lantern was so poor as not
to show the coloured slides to advantage. Williamstown is
in a fine mountainous country, and the next day one of the
professors drove me in a buggy over very rough roads, and
sometimes over snow, to a pretty waterfall, where I collected
a few of the characteristic American ferns, which I sent home,
and which lived for many years in my garden. I here first
noticed the very striking effect of the white-barked birches
and yellow-barked willows in the winter landscape. The fine
Cypripedium spectabile, I was told, grew abundantly in the
bogs of this district. I was hospitably entertained by President Carter, who invited me to visit him in the summer, when
there are abundance of pretty flowers-an invitation, I much
regret, I was unable to profit by.
Between my two last lectures in Boston I had to give one

112
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
at Meriden, a small manufacturing town in Connecticut, involving a railway journey of nearly two hundred miles each
way. I stayed with Mr. Robert Bowman, an Englishman
and a manufacturer of plated goods, who had been thirty years
in America. Much of the country I passed through, as well
as that round Meriden itself, was picturesque with rock and
mountain and rapid streams, yet the whole effect was, as I
noted in my journal, "scraggy as usual," while an American
writer declares that the whole country "has been reduced to
a state of unkempt and sordid ugliness." But I am pretty
sure that the more naturally picturesque parts of this New
England country must be very beautiful in spring and early
summer, when the abundant vegetation would conceal and
beautify that which is bare and ugly in winter. The climate,
too, is unfavourable to that amount of verdure which we can
show throughout the year; while the universality of old
irregular hedgerows in our lowland districts gives a finish
and a charm to our scenery which is wholly wanting
where straight lines of split-wood fences are almost equally
universal.
My next lecture was at Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, on
the way to which I had agreed to pay a visit to Professor
Marsh, at Newhaven, where I arrived on the evening of
November 26. My host, who was a bachelor and very
wealthy, had built himself an eccentric kind of house, the
main feature of which was a large octagonal hall, full of
trophies collected during his numerous explorations in the
far West, and used as a reception and dining-room, with
pretty suites of visitors' rooms opening out of it-a roomy
kind of solidly built bungalow. It is situated near the
Peabody Museum of Yale College, where there was at that
time the largest collection of fossil skeletons, chiefly of
mammals and reptiles of America, to be seen anywhere. The
next morning was devoted to seeing these wonderful remains
of an extinct world, among which were the huge bones of the
atlantosaurus, a reptile near a hundred feet long and thirty
feet high, supposed to be the largest land animal that has
ever existed. The remarkable horned dinosauria, the flying

xxx]

BOSTON TO WASHINGTON

11I3

pterodactyles of strange forms, as well as the almost complete series of links connecting the modern horse with the

very ancient eohippus and hyracotherium, were very interesting. These latter were very small animals with four

toes, which were succeeded by larger and larger forms with

fewer toes, till they culminated in the modern horses, asses,

and zebras, with a single toe, or hoof, on each foot.

In the evening I had the pleasure of meeting Professor

Dana, the first of American geologists, and one or two other

professors of Yale. The next morning was spent in a stroll

over the parks and gardens, and in admiring the grand elm

trees which line many of the streets of this picturesque city

and render it one of the most pleasing I visited in America.

In the afternoon I went by train to New York, and then on

to Poughkeepsie and to Vassar College, one of the most

extensive and complete ladies' colleges, where half the professors are ladies, while the president was Dr. J. M. Taylor.

I breakfasted in the hall with the lady principal, doctor,

professors, and students, of whom there are about three

hundred. Each student has a separate bedroom, and to

each three bedrooms there is a sitting-room, and so far as

possible they are allowed to group themselves. Students

enter at sixteen by a rather stiff examination in mathematics, Latin, either Greek, German, or French, history, etc.

The regular course of study includes natural history, physiology, chemistry, physics, and astronomy, all taught experimentally in laboratories, and an observatory which has

a meridian circle and a twelve-inch equatorial. There is also

a good natural history museum and art gallery. AngloSaxon and moral philosophy are taught in the last term.

The grounds are over two hundred acres of rather rough

park-like country, containing a lake with boats and a gymnasium. In the evening I lectured on "Oceanic Islands" to

a good and very attentive audience.

The next morning I had to be up at 5 a.m. in order to

catch the train to New York and on to Baltimore, where I

lectured in the evening on " Darwinism." I gave here four

lectures to the Peabody Institute, and one, on "Island Life,"

VOL. II.              I

I I4
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
at the Johns Hopkins University. The next morning I
called on President Gilman, who showed me round the buildings, library, reading-room, etc., and introduced me to the
professors, among whom was Dr. W. K. Brooks, the zoologist,
who asked me to lunch with him, and afterwards took me to
walk over the Druid Hill Park, a finely wooded hilly tract of
680 acres, close to the town, and forming one of the most
picturesque recreation grounds I have seen. I also spent
an evening with Professor Brooks, when we talked on Darwinian topics mainly. One day I dined with President Gilman,
and met afterwards a host of professors, students, and ladies,
and had a very pleasant evening. Another day I called on
Professor Ely and had a long talk on the political and social
outlook. In the evening he took me to a meeting of psychologists-professors and students-whose talk was so technical as
to be almost unintelligible to me, and when they asked my
opinion on some of their unsettled problems, I was obliged to
say that I had paid no attention to them, and that I was only
interested in the question of how far the intellectual and
moral nature of man could have been developed from those
of the lower animals through the agency of natural selection,
or whether they indicated some distinct origin and some
higher law; and I gave them a sketch of my views as afterwards developed in the last eighteen pages of my " Darwinism."
After my last lecture (on December 9) I went to
President Gilman's, where I met, among others, Professor
Langley, the physicist. The talk was chiefly about Professor
Sylvester, who had excited immense interest, not only by his
wonderfully original mathematical genius, but also by
his eccentricities and self-absorption. Many anecdotes were
told of him. He had started to dine with a professor who
lived not five minutes' walk from his own house, and whom
he had repeatedly visited; yet he wandered about the streets
searching for it in vain, and came in a full hour late. After
having lived several years in Baltimore, he was one day
asked in the street to direct a person to one of the bestknown public buildings, and hastily replied, "Pray excuse
me; I am quite a stranger here." His genius for solving

XXX]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
II5
puzzles in mathematics gave him an interest in making
rhymes. There was a remarkably pretty young lady who
came to one of the University festivals whose name was suitable for rhyming purposes, and Sylvester started some complimentary verses to see how many successive rhymes he
could make. His intimates declare that for weeks afterwards
he would say on meeting them in the morning, " I have got
another rhyme for Miss -," and after all his friends had
declared that no more were possible, he still kept on discovering new ones till they amounted to some incredible number.
On December I I I returned to Boston, the whole
country being snow-clad and the rivers all ice-bound. On
calling upon my agent I found he had got no more engagements for me, so I determined to go to Washington at the
end of the month. Considering that my lectures were so well
received wherever I went and so well spoken of in the papers,
I was puzzled to know why there was not more demand for
them. But later on some of my friends told me that it was
because I had been preceded for two years by Rev. J. G.
Wood, who, though a very clever artist in colour on the blackboard and an excellent field naturalist, put very little into his
lectures. Yet he had been well puffed by the same agent as
a " great English naturalist," and had given lectures in most
of the colleges in the United States. Hence, when the same
agent announced another "great English naturalist," there
were few bidders, as I was not at that time sufficiently well
known in America. With one exception, I had no lectures
whatever for three months!
I spent the three weeks in Boston studying the museums,
reading at the public library, paying visits, etc. One evening
I dined with the Naturalists' Club at the Revere House Hotel,
with such well-known men as Hyatt, Hagen, Minot, Scudder,
James, Gould, etc.; and just before I left I was invited by a
wealthy merchant and yachtsman, Mr. John M. Forbes, to
a farewell dinner at Parker's Hotel to meet some of Boston's
most eminent men. These were Oliver Wendell Holmes;
James Russell Lowell; Edward Waldo Emerson, son of the

I i6
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
philosopher; Dr. Asa Gray; Rev. James Freeman Clarke;
Dr. William James; General Francis Walker, President
of the Technological Institute; Sir William Dawson, the
Canadian geologist, who was lecturing at the Lowell Institute; and two others less known. The dinner was luxurious
in the extreme, the table covered over with delicate ferns,
and roses with bouquets of violets and daffodils before each
guest. I sat next to Lowell, and was rather awed, as I did
not know much of his writings, and I think he had never
heard of me. The condition of things was not improved by his
quoting some Latin author to illustrate some remark addressed
to me, evidently to see if I was a scholar. I was so taken
aback that instead of saying I had forgotten the little Latin I
ever knew, and that my special interests were in nature, I
merely replied vaguely to his observation. However, the
conversation soon became more general, and such subjects
as politics, travel, Sir James Brooke, and even spiritualism,
afforded some pleasant interchange of ideas. Fortunately
there were no speeches, but I was not so much impressed by
the Boston celebrities as I ought to have been.
A good deal of time during my last three weeks in Boston
was spent in the society either of the professed men of
science or the spiritualists, with both of whom I felt myself
at ease; while for general intelligence the latter were quite
equal to the former. I also attended some very remarkable
stances, an account of which will be given in a future chapter.
I had one good example of the sudden changes of temperature to which Boston is liable. On December 24 it was a
very mild day, so much so that walking was quite oppressive, and in the evening I sat in my room with the window
open to keep cool. At night it rained tremendously till 2 or
3 a.m., but Christmas Day was a hard frost, and the next day
the greatest cold I felt in America. I was told that during
the winter and spring the thermometer often falls 600 in two
hours, and a Bostonian never goes out for a few hours, however mild it may be, without being provided with warm
clothing against such sudden changes, which often produce
serious effects.

XXXJ
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
117
I reached Washington on December 3I, and after spending four days with Professor Riley, the State entomologist,
I took a room at the Hamilton Hotel, where (with the
exception of ten days in Canada) I lived till April 7. I
found Washington a very pleasant residence on account of
the large number of scientific men in the various Government
departments and in the Smithsonian Institution, and also the
presence of many literary men, as representatives of the great
northern papers or as permanent or temporary residents.
Among my earliest acquaintances was Dr. Elliott Coues, a
man of brilliant talents, wide culture, and delightful personality,
with whose ideas I had much in common, and with whom I
soon became intimate. He was not only a practical but
highly philosophical biologist, and was equally interested
with myself in psychical research. I met many pleasant
people at his house, where I often spent my Sunday evenings.
I found another equally close friend in Professor F. Lester
Ward, who divided his enthusiasms and his work between
botany and sociology, both subjects which (as an amateur)
interested myself. His writings on the latter subject are
very numerous-his "Dynamic Sociology," in two large
volumes, being a masterpiece of elaborate systematic study
of almost every phase of social science. A more readable
and more suggestive work is his " Psychic Factors of Civilization," published in 1893, and he has since contributed numerous
papers and addresses of great value to periodicals or to the
publications of scientific societies.
As soon as the earliest flowers appeared, he took me long
Sunday walks in the wild country round Washington, our
first being, on February 13, through the stretches of virgin
forest called Woodley Park, now, I believe, a botanical and
zoological reserve, where many interesting plants were
gathered to send home-Goodyera, Epigza repens, Carex
platyphylla, and the curious leafless parasite called beechdrops, allied to our orobanche. One curious bog-plant,
Symplocarpus fcetidus, was in flower, as was the pretty blue
hepatica, also found in Europe. February and March were,
however, very cold, and Washington was snow-covered and

II8
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
wintry, and so our first really good spring botanizing was on
March 27, when we went a rather long walk of about nine
miles to High Island, a locality for many rarities. Here we
found several pretty or curious spring flowers, the most
interesting to me being the strange little white-flowered
umbelliferous plant, Erigena bulbosa; but other peculiar
American plants-Claytonia, Podophyllum, Jeffersonia, etc.I now saw in flower for the first time. During these excursions we had many long talks and discussions while taking
our lunch. At that time I was not a convinced socialist, and
in that respect Lester Ward was in advance of me, though he
could not quite convince me. He was also an absolute
agnostic or monist, and around this question our discussions
most frequently turned. But as I had a basis of spiritualistic
experiences of which he was totally ignorant, we looked at
the subject from different points of view; and I was limited
to urging the inherent and absolute differences of nature
between matter and mind, and that though, as a verbal proposition, it may be as easy to assume the eternal and necessary
existence of matter and its forces as it is to assume mind as the
fundamental cause of matter, yet it is not really so complete
an explanation or so truly monistic, since we cannot actually
conceive matter as producing mind, whereas we certainly can
conceive mind as producing matter.
I also soon became very intimate with Major Powell, the
head of the Geological Survey, and also with Captain Dutton,
Mr. McGee, and other members of the survey. I spent a
good deal of time in their library, reading up the history of
the glacial phenomena and antiquity of man in America. At
twelve o'clock we all lunched together, in a very informal way,
on bread and cheese, fruit, cakes, and tea; and at this time we
had many interesting conversations, as Major Powell was a
great anthropologist and psychologist, as well as a geologist,
and we thus got upon all kinds of subjects.
I also spent a good deal of my time in the great collection
of prehistoric remains, stone implements, weapons, etc., of
early man in the National Museum, perhaps the most

xxx]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
II9
wonderful and interesting collection of such objects in the
world. One of the gentlemen interested in such things, Dr.
Hoffman, took me to a field in the suburbs which had been
the site of an old Indian village and where arrow-heads were
still often found, and I was able to pick up a few specimens
myself.
I was also made free of Cosmos Club, where I went to
read papers and magazines. Soon after my arrival Mr. Riley
took me to one of the evening receptions, where I met most
of the scientific men and women of Washington, and was introduced to many of them. Most of them told me they had
read my books, and several said that my " Malay Archipelago "
had first led them to take an interest in natural history
and its more general problems. Here, at one time or another,
I met almost all the scientific men of Washington and many
of those from other States. One evening I was taken by
Major and Mrs. Powell to a meeting of the Literary Society
at the house of Mr. Nordhoff, author of an important work
on the communistic societies of the United States, and
a very advanced thinker. Here I met hosts of people
who were really too polite and enthusiastic-" proud to
meet me;" "honour and pleasure never expected;" "read
my books all their life! " etc.-leaving me speechless with
amazement!
The event of the evening was a paper by Mr. Kennan,
describing his recent visit, on his return from Siberia, to
Count Tolstoi, the great Russian novelist, philanthropist, and
non-resisting nihilist. It was a very clever, sympathetic, and
suggestive picture of a man described as " a true social heroone of the Christ type." I often dined at Mr. Nordhoff's, and
met many interesting people there, and spent several pleasant
evenings with his highly intellectual family. Among the
celebrities I met there were Mrs. Hodgson Burnett, none of
whose works I had then read; Captain Greely, the Arctic
explorer; and Senator and Mrs. Stanford, whom I afterwards
visited in California.
When settled at the hotel I was allotted a place to take
my meals, at a table where there were five other persons. Not

120
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
knowing the etiquette of such a position, I did not begin conversation till, I think, the second day, a gentleman and lady of
middle age introduced themselves as Mr. and Mrs. Armstrong,
and we soon became quite friendly. They had a private sittingroom in the hotel, and I often had afternoon tea with them
or spent the evening; and as they were educated people
interested in science and literature, while Mr. Armstrong
was a spiritualist, they were very agreeable acquaintances.
Through them I was introduced to the other occupants of
the table-Judge Holman, with his wife and daughter. The
judge was a member of Congress, as representative of Indiana,
and we had sometimes long conversations at breakfast or
dinner on political questions. One of the most interesting
was about the Irish in America. He said, "Why does your
Government drive the Irish out of their country by not letting
them govern themselves? We find them among our best
citizens when they have a chance. I have known and
observed them for fifty years. Near me, in Indiana, is a
township which was settled about forty years ago by Irish
and Germans, all Catholics. The Germans have increased in
numbers, the Irish have diminished by emigrating further
west and other causes. Many of the Irish have became public
men of eminence, and many others rose to good positions.
Those that remain farmers cultivate their land as well as the
Germans, and show equal industry. Considering the low
class of Irish that usually come over, and their extreme
poverty as compared with the Germans and other immigrants,
it cannot be said that they are at all inferior in industry and
in success in life. That is the general experience all over our
country. They form a valuable portion of our citizens, yet
you English will have it they can't govern themselves, and
make that an excuse for keeping them down and driving
them to emigrate." That is the substance of his remarks,
which I noted down immediately; and as he was a highly
intelligent man, and a good example of the moderate
American legislator, his opinion seemed to me especially
valuable, and should make our "Unionists" (as they call
themselves, but they are really "gaolers") pause in their

xxx]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
12I
endeavours to perpetuate the subjection of people who are
in every respect as good as themselves.
But to my mind, the question of good or bad, fit or not
fit for self-government, is not to the point. It is a question
of fundamental justice, and the just is always the expedient,
as well as the right. It is a crime against humanity for
one nation to govern another against its will. The master
always says his slaves are not fit for freedom; the tyrant,
that subjects are not fit to govern themselves. The fitness
for self-government is inherent in human nature. Many
savage tribes, many barbarian peoples, are really better
governed to-day than the majority of the self-styled civilized
nations. America deserves the gratitude of all upholders
of liberty by founding her own freedom on the principle of
immutable right to self-government-that Governments derive
their just powers only from the consent of the governed.
To-day, however, America has taken leave of this high
ideal, and has become, like ourselves, a tyrant, ruling the
Philippinos against their will as we have so long ruled the
Irish.
Among the visitors to Washington was the Rev. J. A.
Alien, of Kingston, Canada (the father of our Grant Allen),
who, with his wife and two daughters, was living in apartments nearly opposite my hotel. I soon became intimate
with this amiable and very intellectual family, and spent
many pleasant evenings with them; while Mr. Allen sometimes went for walks with me and took me over the Patent
Museum, where there is a most wonderful exhibition of
models of all the successful and unsuccessful inventions that
have been patented in the States. From him I first learnt
that his son was a poet, and he gave me a copy of his
marvellous poem entitled "In Magdalen Tower," written
when he was an undergraduate, describing with wonderful
ingenuity and picturesqueness the appearance of the city
on a moonlight October night, but going on to discuss
the deepest problems of philosophy and their attempted
solutions. Take as a sample these two verses on law in the
universe

122
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
"We yearn for brotherhood with lake and mountain;
Our conscious soul seeks conscious sympathy,
Nymphs in the coppice, Naiads in the fountain,
Gods in the craggy heights and roaring sea.
We find but soulless sequences of matter,
Fact linked to fact by adamantine rods,
Eternal bonds of former sense and latter,
Blind laws for living gods.
"They care not any whit for pain or pleasure
That seem to men the sum and end of all;
Dumb force and barren number are their measure;
What can be, shall be, though the great world fall.
They take no heed of man or man's deserving,
Reck not what happy lives they make or mar,
Work out their fatal will unswerv'd unswerving,
And know not that they are! "
The poem consists of twenty-one verses, every one of
them perfect in rhyme and rhythm, and each carrying on the
argument and illustration to the conclusion. This gifted
writer would have been a great naturalist, and perhaps also
a great poet, had he not been obliged to write novels and
magazine articles for a livelihood.
Another interesting character was Mrs. Beecher Hooker,
sister to Henry Ward Beecher and Harriet Beecher Stowe.
She was a fine lecturer on social, ethical, and spiritual subjects,
and was also a spiritualist and trance speaker, well known
throughout America. One evening she gave a reception, to
which she invited her friends to meet me. Many of the
clergy and a large number of the senators and congressmen,
with their wives and daughters, were present, and she would
insist on introducing me to a number of them, so that I had
to shake hands with fifty or sixty people. They seemed
quite puzzled. I heard one say to another, " I guess he's
some Western man, but I never heard of him." " No," said
his friend; "he's an Englishman, lecturing on biology and
Darwin, and such things." "Wal," said the first, "he hasn't
much of the English accent." Mrs. Hooker was very anxious
that we should come to live in America (she had visited us
in England) and form a kind of home colony, being sure that

xxx]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
123
she could get many advanced thinkers to join; and some years
after she wrote to me about it. But my work was at home.
Many of my most interesting and most intellectual friends
were spiritualists. Besides Professor Coues, a man of the
mental calibre of Huxley with the charming personality of
Mivart, I saw most of General Francis Lippitt, a man who
was a lawyer as well as a soldier, and had held many high
offices under the Government. He was highly educated and
had seen much of the world, and we spent many pleasant
hours together. He introduced me to Mr. Daniel Lyman,
solicitor to the Treasury, a man of powerful physique and
strong character, who had for many years made a study of
spiritualistic phenomena, and, like Sir W. Crookes, had had
mediums to live with him and be wholly subject to his own
conditions. Under such circumstances he had obtained
phenomena of a more astounding, yet more convincing nature
than any person I have met. He took us over the Treasury,
showed us the beautiful machinery for engraving bank-notes,
so that every fresh issue-and they are continually being
made-may have a new and highly complex pattern. We
were also taken to the Treasury vaults-some filled to the roof
with bags of dollars, others with gold in interminable ranges.
One huge vault, about sixty feet by thirty feet, with iron
partitions, was filled from floor to ceiling with bags of dollars,
one thousand in each bag. The total amount was fifty-seven
millions, and in another vault there was twenty-five millions
in gold. The large double doors closing these vaults are
of steel, strengthened by massive cross-bars and with huge
cylindrical bolts at top, bottom, and sides, all connected by a
clockwork arrangement, which prevents the bolts from being
moved till the hour at which the clock was previously set.
The doors and locks are highly finished pieces of engineering, and must have cost a very large sum each. These enormous stores of coin, and the complex and costly arrangements
for keeping them safely, afford a striking object-lesson to the
socialist of the waste and absurdity of our existing systems
of currency, which would be completely unnecessary under a
more rational social organization.

I24
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
One day Mr. Allen went with me to the House of
Representatives, where we heard part of a debate on the
Pleuro-pneumonia Bill, State rights, etc. The arrangements
differ widely from ours. The whole building seems to be
open to the public. There is a very broad gallery all round
the chamber with comfortable seats, accommodating perhaps
several thousand people. Every member has a separate
desk and chair, and most of them write or read at their
ease while the speeches are going on. Dozens of messengerboys are always running about, taking letters, telegrams, or
messages to friends. To call a boy the member claps his
hands. There is much more energy and gesticulation in the
speeches than with us. The Capitol is a very fine building,
standing on a small hill in a fine park. It is in the classical
style, with very broad flights of steps, great numbers of
columns, and a beautiful central dome, as graceful in form
as that of St. Paul's, and over three hundred feet high. The
whole building is pure white, part painted stone, the rest
white marble. The general effect is really magnificent. The
inside is equally fine, the central hall under the dome forming
a kind of public lounge. Owing, however, to its being situated
in a city which is not a great business centre, it is rarely
crowded.
The Corcoran Art Gallery occupied an afternoon. The
most remarkable pictures were Church's "Niagara," Bierstadt's
grand view in the Sierra Nevada, and Muller's "Charlotte
Corday." One morning I went by invitation to the Naval
Observatory to see the instruments and the wonderfully ingenious electrical arrangement by which clocks all over the
country are automatically set right at noon, both second and
minute hands being moved back or forward as required. I
also saw the great equatorial, with twenty-six-inch object
glass and of thirty-feet focal length; at that time the finest
telescope in the world. A week later, on a frosty night, I
went again, and was shown Saturn, with powers of four
hundred and six hundred. The division of the ring was very
sharp, but the dark ring was barely visible as a shadow on
the two ends. The white equatorial belt was, however, very

xxxI
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
125
distinct. I was then shown the great nebula in Orion, the
double star Castor, and a fine cluster in Perseus, the most
beautiful object I saw. The telescope is not quite achromatic,
but it is wonderfully steady, and the clockwork motion very
perfect. The night, though very clear, was not one for what
is termed "good seeing;" hence high powers could not be used,
and the result was somewhat disappointing. A really good
telescope of moderate size, say four-inch or six-inch object
glass, properly mounted, and which can be used whenever the
conditions are good, will afford more pleasure and instruction
than chance visits to the largest instruments.
Early in January I had an engagement to lecture before
the American Geographical Society at New York, the subject
being, " Oceanic Islands and the Permanence of Continental
and Oceanic Areas." I stayed with my kind friend Mr. A.
G. Browne, who took me after the lecture to the Century
Club, where I met Clarence King, the geologist, and some
other scientific men. Next morning I visited the American
Museum of Natural History, where I met Dr. J. B. Holder,
Mr. J. A. Allen, the well-known writer on birds and mammals,
and some other naturalists; and returned to Washington in
the afternoon.
On Sunday evening, March 6, I started on a ten days'
visit to Canada to fulfil some lecture engagements. I went
by a circuitous route by Williamsport, where I breakfasted;
then on by Seneca lake and Rochester to Niagara. All this
country was very picturesque-much like Wales, but no walls
or hedges, and wooden houses. Willows with bright yellow
bark were conspicuous, and very handsome. Near the lake
were abundant vineyards, deep gullies in horizontal shaly
rock, with numerous waterfalls. I reached the Niagara old
suspension bridge at 5 p.m., and had just time to see the
rapids by going down the cliffs in an elevator about two
hundred feet. The leaping, irregular waves were fine, but
hardly up to my expectation. I had an excellent supper at
a small hotel, and then went on to Toronto, which I reached
at I2.20, going on next morning to Kingston, which I reached
at 2.30 p.m., where Principal Grant met me and took me

I26
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
in a sleigh to the college. In the evening I lectured on
"Darwinism" to a good and attentive audience.
After the lecture some friends of Principal Grant came in,
and we had much conversation. A lady who was interested
in spiritualism spoke to me, and asked me if I knew that
Romanes was a spiritualist, and had tried to convert Darwin.
I told her that I knew he was interested in the phenomena
of spiritualism, but that I thought it most improbable that he
had said anything to Darwin. "But," said she, " Professor
Romanes's brother is a great friend of mine, and he gave me
the drafts of the letters they jointly wrote to Darwin. Would
you like to see them? " I said I certainly should, and she
promised to bring them the next morning. She did so, and
I read them with great interest and surprise, as he had never
mentioned them to me when he had come to see me expressly
to discuss spiritualism. On asking, she said I might take notes
of the contents, as they were given to her without any restriction, and the Canadian Romanes was a thorough spiritualist.
This curious episode, and what it led to, will be explained in
a future chapter.
In the afternoon I left for Toronto, where I arrived about
i i p.m., and drove to Professor Wright's house. We lunched
next day with Dr. Wilson, and met Mr. Hale, the well-known
anthropologist. In the afternoon there was a reception at
Professor Wright's, and in the evening I gave my lecture on
the Darwinian theory, which gave the argument as afterwards
developed in the first five and the last chapters of my book
on " Darwinism." When I had finished, the Bishop of Toronto
made a few remarks, and expressed his relief when he heard
my concluding observations. The next day I gave a combined
lecture on "Animal Colours and Mimicry," which occupied an
hour and three-quarters; but the crowded audience seemed
much interested, and the lantern was an excellent one, and
showed the coloured slides to perfection. A Mr. Smith, the
head of a veterinary college, who had heard my first lecture,
wished me to repeat it to his pupils, which I did the next
day to a very attentive audience of three hundred young
men.

BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
127
In the evening I dined with Professor Goldwin Smith and
a party of scientific men in his fine old house, with black
walnut staircase and furniture. Afterwards we adjourned
to his spacious library, where we discussed politics and literature. The next evening was spent at Mr. Allen's, where I
saw a fine collection of Canadian birds, and was struck by
the large number of handsome woodpeckers and other brightcoloured birds as compared with Europe. On my way back
to Washington I spent four days at Niagara, living at the old
hotel on the Canadian side, in a room that looked out on the
great fall, and where its continuous musical roar soothed me
to sleep. It was a hard frost, and the American falls had
great ice-mounds below them, and ranges of gigantic icicles
near the margins. At night the sound was like that of a strong,
steady wind at sea, but even more like the roar of the London
streets heard from the middle of Hyde Park. When in bed a
constant vibration was felt. I spent my whole time wandering about the falls, above and below, on the Canadian and
the American sides, roaming over Goat Island and the Three
Sisters Islands far in the rapids above the Horse-shoe Fall,
which are almost as impressive as the fall itself. The small
Luna Island dividing the American falls was a lovely sight;
the arbor-vitae trees (Thuya Americana), with which it is
covered, young and old, some torn and jagged, but all to
the smallest twigs coated with glistening ice from the frozen
spray, looked like groves of gigantic tree corals-the most
magnificent and fairy-like scene I have ever beheld. All the
islands are rocky and picturesque, the trees draped with wild
vines and Virginia creepers, and afford a sample of the original
American forest vegetation of very great interest. During
these four days I was almost entirely alone, and was glad
to be so. I was never tired of the ever-changing aspects of
this grand illustration of natural forces engaged in modelling
the earth's surface. Usually the centre of the great falls,
where the depth and force of the water are greatest, is hidden
by the great column of spray which rises to the height of four
hundred or five hundred feet; but occasionally the wind drifts
it aside, and allows the great central gulf of falling water

128
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
to be seen nearly from top to bottom-a most impressive
sight.
When I got back to Washington it was snowing hard, and
the whole country was more wintry-looking than at Niagara,
four degrees further north. I at once went to the Geological
Survey Library to look up recent works on Niagara, and
had an interesting talk with Mr. McGee about it. He told
me that the centre of the Horse-shoe Fall has receded about
two hundred feet in forty years. The Potomac falls, which
are in gneiss rock, have receded quite as fast. The conditions
that combine to produce the recession of waterfalls are
numerous, and so liable to change, that it is impossible to
trust to conclusions drawn from observations during limited
periods. It is evident, for example, that while the Canadian
falls have receded nearly one-third of a mile, the American
falls have not receded more than ten or twenty feet.
Although I did not have a single lecture engagement at
Washington, I read two short scientific papers there. There
was a Woman's Anthropological Society, which invited me
to address them, and being rather puzzled what to talk about,
I made a few remarks on " The Great Problems of Anthropology." These I defined as the problem of race and the
problem of language. On the first point I stated that there
are three great races or divisions of mankind clearly definable
-the black, the brown, and the white, or the Negro, Mongolian, and Caucasian. If we once begin to subdivide beyond
these primary divisions, there is no possibility of agreement,
and we pass insensibly from the five races of Pritchard to the
fifty or sixty of some modern ethnologists. The other great
problem, that of language and its origin, was important,
because it was, above all others, the human characteristic,
and was the greatest factor in man's intellectual development. I then laid down the outlines of the theory of mouthgestures, which I afterwards developed in my article on " The
Expressiveness of Speech," showing how greatly it extends the
range of mere initiative sounds (which had been ridiculed by
some great philologists) and affords a broad and secure
foundation for the development of every form of human speech.

XXX]

BOSTON TO WASHINGTON

I29

The other paper was on "Social Economy versus Political

Economy," and was given at the request of Major Powell and a

few other scientific friends to a large audience of gentlemen

and ladies. It was an attempt to show how and why the

old "political economy" was effete and useless, in view of

modern civilization and modern accumulations of individual

wealth. Its one end, aim, and the measure of its success,

was the accumulation of wealth, without considering who got

the wealth, or how many of the producers of the wealth

starved. What we required now was a science of "social

economy," whose success should be measured by the good

of all. Under this system, not only should no worker ever be

in want, but labour must be so organized that every worker,

without exception, must receive as the product of his labour

all the essentials of a healthy and happy life; must have

ample relaxation, adequate change of occupation, the means

of enjoying the beauty and the solace of nature on the

one hand, and of literature and art on the other. This must

be a first charge on the labour of the community; till this is

produced there must be no labour expended on luxury, no

private accumulations of wealth in order that unborn generations may live lives of idleness and pleasure.

This paper was altogether too revolutionary for many of

my hearers, and the general feeling was perhaps expressed in

the following passage from the Washington Post: "It is

astounding that a man who really possesses the power of

induction and ratiocination, and who, in physical synthesis

has been a leader of his generation, should express notions of

political economy, which belong only or mainly to savage

tribes." At that time, however, there was hardly a professed

socialist in America. In the eighteen years that have elapsed

since this paper was read an enormous advance in opinion

has occurred, and to-day, not only to a large proportion of

the workers, but to thousands of the professional classes, the

views therein expressed would be accepted as in accordance

with justice and sound policy.

Another evening I was asked by Dr. T. A. Bland, editor

of The Council Fire, and friend of the Indians, who had seen

VOL. II.              K

130
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
the evils of land-speculation in leading to the robbery of
land granted as Indian reserves, to give some of his friends
a short address, explaining my views on land reform. I note
in my journal, "preached on 'Land Nationalization,' talk
afterwards." At this time, however, the one subject of
private interest everywhere in America was land-speculation,
and nobody could see anything bad in it. My ideas, therefore, seemed very wild, and I don't think I made a convert.
One of the most interesting visits I made in Washington
was to the National Deaf-Mute College, founded in I857,
and one of the best institutions of the kind in the world. The
president, Dr. Galaudet, learnt to speak by signs before he
spoke audibly, his mother being deaf and dumb, while his
father was the first teacher of deaf-mutes in the United States.
There are about one hundred and twenty students from
all parts of the Union, and the buildings stand in one hundred
acres of beautifully wooded grounds, within ten miles of the
Capitol. The more advanced students learn every subject
taught in the best colleges, such as mathematics, the ancient
and modern languages, the various sciences, moral philosophy, etc., and all these subjects are taught as thoroughly
and as easily as to those who possess the power of speech.
But besides being taught to use the gesture language as
easily and as quickly as we use ordinary speech, and to read
and write as well as we do, they are also now taught to
speak-a much more difficult thing, and long thought impossible, because, not being able to hear either the teacher's voice
or their own, they have to be taught by watching their
tutor's mouth while speaking, and then trying to imitate the
movements of the lips and tongue, aided by feeling the
throat with their fingers. It is a very slow process, and
success depends much on the special imitative faculties and
vocal organization of the learner. Even in the best cases
there is a hardness and want of modulation in the voice, but
they learn to say everything, even to make a speech in
public, and at the same time they learn what is termed lipreading-that is, to know what a person is saying by watching
the motions of the lips and throat. But in this there is,

xxx]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
131I
of course, a good deal of guesswork, and unless they know
the subject of conversation, they are likely to make great
mistakes.
Many persons cannot understand how it is possible to
convey all kinds of abstract ideas by means of gestures or
signals as quickly and as certainly as by vocal sounds. But
in reality the former has some advantages over the latter,
and is equally capable of unlimited extension and the expression of new ideas, by a modification of familiar symbols.
If we consider how easily we convey the idea, " Don't speak,"
by putting the fingers to the lips; "yes " or "no " by the
slightest motions of the head; " come " or " go " by motions
of the hand; "joy" or "sorrow" by the expression of the
face; "a child " or "a man" by holding the hand at the
corresponding height; weakness of mind by tapping the
forehead with the finger, we can see how a system of signs
and gestures may be gradually built up as surely as have
been the vocal sounds of all the various languages of the
world. And such a system has been built up, and is so
complete that a spoken lecture upon any subject whatever
can be translated into gestures so as to be perfectly understood and enjoyed by an audience of deaf-mutes. Of course,
proper names and the less common technical terms are given
by rapidly spelling out the word by letter-signs. No doubt
the power of speaking and lip-reading is by far the more
valuable for the deaf-mute, since it enables him to communicate with the outside world; but as a means of familiar
intercourse with each other, the gesture language is the
most certain and the most enjoyable. Both require light,
but the latter, involving motions of the limbs and body, can
be understood at a greater distance and with less strained
attention.
The students trained in this college have no difficulty in
finding employment. Some become teachers to the deaf,
but others are editors or journalists, clerks, surveyors,
draughtsmen, mechanics, etc. I saw one of the younger
pupils being taught to speak, which requires immense
patience and perseverance in the teacher, and in some cases

I 32
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
is almost impossible, except to a very limited extent.
Others, on the contrary, learn with comparative rapidity,
just as some who can hear acquire foreign languages with
a rapidity which seems almost incredible to those without
the special faculty. Those who are familiar with the gesture language, and can read and write with facility, seem to
enjoy their lives as well as we hearers and speakers enjoy
ourselves. They are seen walking together, laughing and
gesture-talking with each other, or engaged in the various
sports and occupations of their age without any indication
of the loss of the means of communication which seems to
us so essential. As now taught, the deaf-mute is in a far
less painful position than the blind; indeed, Professor Newcomb told them, in an address he gave at the college in
i885, that they were peculiarly fortunate in being so situated
as to escape much of the idle, useless talk that is going on
in the world. His own time, he said, was largely taken up
by people who had nothing to say. Almost everything
worth knowing that has been said is now to be found in
print.
While at Washington I was asked by two American
papers-The Nation and The Independent-to review a book
just published by Professor Cope, with the rather catching title,
" The Origin of the Fittest," made up by combining Darwin's
title, "The Origin of Species," and Herbert Spencer's, "The
Survival of the Fittest." With such a title from a man who,
owing to his extensive knowledge of anatomy and palaeontology, was looked up to as a kind of American Haeckel, a
really important work might naturally be expected. But
this volume consisted almost entirely of a collection of lectures, addresses, and magazine articles, printed just as they
were written or delivered, some in the first, some in the third
person, with whole pages of the same matter repeated in
different chapters, some of the illustrations having no reference in the text. In fact, a more egregious case of bookmaking with a misleading title was never perpetrated. Of
course, there was good and original matter in it; but all

XXX]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
I33
those parts which attempted to justify the title by propounding a new theory of evolution were either quite unsound in
reasoning or wholly unintelligble. When the second application came, I told the editor that I had already agreed to
write one, but could easily write another from a different
point of view. This was accepted, and as the reviews were
unsigned, it was not difficult to make them appear to be by
distinct writers. In the first (which appeared in The Nation,
February Io, 1887) I gave a careful summary of the most
important contents of the volume, pointing out the novel
views, and stating how he differed from the Darwinians and
from the chief other schools of biologists. Only in one paragraph at the end I pointed out the great imperfections of the
work, due to the absence of any attempt to weld the mass of
heterogeneous matter into a consistent whole.
In the other article (The Ildependent, March 17, 1887) I
presented my readers with a severe but, I think, perfectly
fair criticism, pointing out the extraordinary incongruity of
the materials, the numerous repetitions, the illustrations without explanation on the plates or any reference to them in
the text, and many other deficiencies. I showed how contemptuously he spoke of Darwin as a mere compiler of facts
which every one knew, and the inventor of a theory that
proved nothing, until he himself had now supplied the missing
link-the new conception which cleared up everything! Then
I dealt with his own supposed discoveries, his growth-force,
his law of acceleration and retardation, and other such matters,
showing that, so far as they were intelligible, they were all
included in Darwin's writings; and I concluded by expressing regret that the talented author should have issued so
incomplete a work. I do not think that any of my friends in
Washington suspected that I was the author of either of the
articles, which I heard spoken of as fair criticisms.
Before I left Washington, Judge Holman took me one
morning to call upon the President, Mr. Cleveland. The
judge told him I was going to visit California, and that
turned the conversation on wine, raisins, etc., which did not

134
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
at all interest me. There was no ceremony whatever, but, of
course, I had nothing special to say to him, and he had
nothing special to say to me, the result being that we were
both rather bored, and glad to get it over as soon as we
could. I then went to see the White House, some of the
reception rooms being very fine; but there was a great
absence of works of art, the only painting I saw being
portraits of Washington and his wife.
Washington itself is a very fine and even picturesque
city, owing to its designer having departed from the rigid
rectangularity of most American cities by the addition of a
number of broad diagonal avenues crossing the rectangles at
different angles, and varying from one to four miles long.
The broadest of these are one hundred and sixty feet wide,
planted with two double avenues of trees, and with wide
grassy spaces between the houses and the pavements.
Wherever these diagonal avenues intersect the principal
streets, there are quadrangular open spaces forming gardens
or small parks, planted with shrubs and trees, and with
numerous seats. Conspicuous in these parks are the many
specimens of the fine Pazulowina imperialis, one of the handsomest flowering trees of the temperate zone, but which rarely
flowers with us for want of sun-heat. It has very large
cordate leaves and erect panicles of purple flowers, in shape
like those of a foxglove. It was a great regret to me that I
had to leave before the flowering season of these splendid
trees.
It is, however, a great pity that when the city was
founded it was not perceived that the whole of the land
should be kept by the Government, not only to obtain the
very large revenue that would be sure to accrue from it, but,
what is much more important, to prevent the growth of slums
and of crowded insanitary dwellings as the result of land and
building speculation. As it is now, some of the suburbs are
miserable in the extreme. Any kind of huts and hovels are
put up on undrained and almost poisonous ground, while in
some of these remoter streets I saw rows of little villas
closely packed together, but each house only fifteen feet wide.

XXX]
BOSTON TO WASHINGTON
I35
My three months' sojourn in Washington, though a considerable loss to me financially, was in all other respects most
enjoyable. I met more interesting people there than in any
other part of America, and became on terms of intimacy, and
even of friendship, with many of them. There was a very
good circulating library of general literature to which I subscribed for a quarter, and was thus enabled to read many of
the gems of American literature which I had not before met
with. Among these I read a good many of the works of
Frank Stockton, perhaps the most thoroughly original of
modern story-writers. " Rudder Grange" and "The Adventures of Mrs. Leck and Mrs. Aleshine" are among the
best known; but I found here quite a small book, called
"Every Man his own Letter-Writer," which professes to
supply a long-felt want in giving forms of letters adapted
to all the varied conditions of our modern civilization. The
result is that these conditions are found to be so complex
that to merely state them from "so-and-so " to "so-and-so "
takes up much more space than the letter itself, and is made
so humorously involved that I was, and am still, quite unable
to read them for laughter. One day a small, active-looking
man was pointed out to me as this very clever writer, and
though I did not speak to him, it is a pleasure to recall his
appearance when I read any of his delightfully fantastic
works. For many reasons I left Washington with very great
regret.

CHAPTER XXXI
LECTURING TOUR IN AMERICA-WASHINGTON TO
SAN FRANCISCO
I HAD two lecture engagements at Cincinnati, and had also
an invitation to visit Mr. W. H. Edwards, the lepidopterist,
whose book induced Bates and myself to go to Para, and
who resided at Coalburg, in West Virginia. I was also very
anxious to see a new cavern which had been discovered about
ten years before, and which was said to be far superior to the
Mammoth Cave in the variety and beauty of its stalagmitic
formations, though not so extensive. I therefore took a
rather circuitous route in order to carry out this programme.
Leaving Washington April 6 at 3 p.m., I reached
Harper's Ferry about 5.30, through a fairly cultivated
country, a few fields green with young wheat and a few
damp meadows with grass, but otherwise very wintry looking.
Changing to a branch line up the Shenandoah Valley, I
passed through a picturesque country like the less mountainous parts of Wales, but mostly uncultivated, and reached
Luray station about 9 p.m. There was a rather rough hotel
here, where I had supper and bed, and the next morning
after breakfast a waggon took myself and a few other visitors
to the cavern about a mile away, for seeing which we paid
a dollar each, and it was very well worth it. We walked
through the best parts (which are lit up with electric lights)
for about two hours, through a variety of passages, galleries,
and halls, some reaching a hundred feet high, some having
streams or pools of water, and some chasms of unknown
depth, like most caves in the limestone. But everywhere
136


THE SARACEN'S TENT, LURAY' CAVERN.
[i'ofacepi. 137, VOL. 11

[CHAP. XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO 137
there are stalactites of the most varied forms, and often of
the most wonderful beauty. Usually they form pillars like
some strange architecture, sometimes they hang down like
gigantic icicles, and one of these is over sixty feet long, the
dripping apex being only a few inches from the floor. In
some places the stalactites resemble cascades, in others
organs, and several are like statues, and have received appropriate names. Many of them are most curiously ribbed;
others, again, have branches growing out of them at right
angles a few inches long-a most puzzling phenomenon.
There is a Moorish tent, in which fine white drapery hangs in
front of a cave, a ballroom beautifully ornamented with snowwhite stalactitic curtains, etc. Some of these, when struck,
give out musical notes, and a tune can be played on them.
A photograph of the Moorish tent and the curious pillars
near it is here reproduced. The curtain is like alabaster, and
when a lamp is held behind it, the effect is most beautiful.
In many places there are stalagmitic floors, beneath which is
clay filled with bones of bats, etc., and at one spot human
bones are embedded in the floor under a chasm opening
above. The print of an Indian mocassin is also shown
petrified by the stalagmite. Rats and mice are found with
very large eyes; and there are some blind insects and centipedes, as in the Mammoth Cave. Several miles of caverns and
passages have already been explored, but other wonders may
still be hidden in its deeper recesses. The only caves in the
world which appear, from the descriptions, to surpass those
of Luray are the Jenolan caves in New South Wales. The
latter have all the curious and elegant forms of stalactites
found at Luray, and in addition others of beautiful colours,
such as salmon, pink, blue, yellow, and various tints of green,
a peculiarity, so far as I am aware, found nowhere else.
Returning to the station, I went on toWaynesboro'Junction,
where I dined, and had to wait two or three hours for the
train on at 5 p.m. I took a walk on a wooded hill close by,
but the only flower I could find was the little Epigcea repens,
the only indication of spring. The appearance of the woods
was no more advanced than with us in February; yet it was

I38
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
in the latitude of Lisbon! I reached Clifton Forge, where I
had to stay the night, at 8 p.m., and found the hotel full, and
was sent to another-small, dirty, and ruinous. Next morning
I was so unlucky as to lose my train by getting into the
wrong one, which was standing ready on the line with steam
up. The conductor, after seeing my ticket, stopped the train
and set me down, telling me that if I walked back quickly I
might be in time. But I had a heavy bag to carry, and a
mile to walk, and arrived dripping with perspiration to find
that the train had gone, and there was no other till the same
hour next day. I therefore wired to Mr. Edwards, and spent
the day exploring the country for several miles around. Two
or three miles up the valley I came to a fine gorge, where
there was a good specimen of arched stratification. I came
across a thicket of rhododendrons, the first I had seen wild.
There were also some tulip trees with dry capsules, and the
brilliant red maple in flower, as well as the yellow-flowered
spice bush, Benzoin odoriferum. There was an undergrowth
of kalmia, and some of the deciduous trees were in leaf, but
there were no herbaceous spring flowers and very few showing
leaf in the woods.
The next day I left at 7 a.m., passing through a very
interesting country, first among iron works in a rather flat,
open valley, then along narrow winding valleys, then into a
dry valley always rising towards the ridge of the Alleghanies,
then through a tunnel into another valley, still going up among
woods of firs and oaks, rather small and scraggy, till at 8.30 a.m.
we passed the summit level by a tunnel, and soon got into a
rather wide, deep valley with a stream flowing west, and at
8.40 reached White Sulphur Springs, in a pleasant basin surrounded by mountains, with a pretty church, neat houses,
good roads, and gardens with painted wood fences! the
first bit of an attempt at neatness I had seen since leaving
Washington. Here were some fine pine trees, and the grand
ridges and mountains, wooded to the summits, reminded me
of Switzerland, without its great charms-the lowland and
upland pastures and snow-capped peaks. Soon the valley
widens, the rock becomes a highly inclined schist or slate,

XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO  139

cultivated fields are more numerous, but often still full of

tree-stumps. Men are seen ploughing with very small light

ploughs, which can turn easily among the stumps; ugly snake

fences are present everywhere; queer little wooden huts are

dotted about; and ragged, dirty children abound-a regular

bit of backwoods life.

Passing through a long tunnel, we come out upon the

Greenbriar river, a quiet stream whose greenish waters are

full of logs cut in the surrounding mountains and being

floated down to the Ohio. At Hinton the New River joins

our stream, the valley gradually narrows till we are walled in

by grand crags and precipices, there are enormous fallen

boulders, and the river foams over ledges and down whirling

rapids. We passed a fine lofty point called Hawk's Nest, and

soon after reached the Kanahwha river, which is navigable down

to the Ohio. Here we saw one of the old-fashioned sternpaddle steamboats; the climate became warmer, a peach tree

was in full blossom, and I even saw that rarity in America, a

greenhouse attached to a small country house. All down the

valley in alluvial flats the Western plane tree (Platanus

occidentalis) had a remarkable appearance, its upper half being

pure white, exactly as if whitewashed. This is the colour

of the young bark before it flakes off, as it does on the trunk

and larger limbs. The peculiar appearance is not noticed by

Loudon, so perhaps it is not produced in our less sunny

climate.

I reached Coalburg at 3 p.m., where Mr. Edwards met me

and took me to his pleasant house with a broad verandah in

a pretty orchard at the foot of the mountain, which rises in a

steep forest-clad slope close behind. The grass of the orchard

was full of the beautiful white flowers of the blood-root

(Sanguinaria canadensis), together with yellow and blue

violets, and there were fine views of the river and high sloping hills, which, together with the tramways and coal trucks

on the railway, and here and there the chimneys of a colliery

engine, reminded me of some of the South Wales valleys. I

spent four days here roaming about the country, seeing my

host's fine collection of North American butterflies and his

140
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
elaborate drawings of the larvae at every moult, from their
first emergence from the egg up to the pupa stage, which
often served to determine otherwise too closely allied species.
We had only met once forty years before, but had occasionally corresponded on entomological subjects, and felt quite as
old friends. Mr. Edwards had some literary tastes and had
a pretty good library, so that in the intervals of work and
talk I spent many hours reading. He had lived twenty-five
years in this valley, where he had been among the first to
work the coal, and was still business manager of some of the
mines. He confirmed what Judge Holman had told me
about the Irish, who, he said, were industrious and very
intelligent and enterprising, many of them rising to high
positions. As workmen they are, in his opinion, better than
the Welsh, and equal to the Germans. And these are the
people we have for a century driven out of their native
country by despotic rule and the cruel oppression of absentee
landlordism, and still declare to be "incapable of self-government." The force of racial pride, ignorance, and impudence
can no further go.
During several drives and walks I saw a good deal of the
country and population. The villages and detached houses
were usually very poor and untidy, fences and pigsties are
built of odd bits of board, and there were hardly any gardens
or cultivation of any kind, the result probably of the people
being mostly miners and mere temporary residents. In one
village, however, where the miners owned their own cottages,
these were neat and sometimes pretty, in good repair, and
with gardens well attended to. Here, again, the magic of
property (or of permanent occupation) turns a hovel into a
home, a desert into a garden-as Arthur Young remarked
more than a century ago.
On the I3th of April at 8.30 a.m. I bade farewell to Mr.
Edwards, his daughter and son, who had made my visit a
very agreeable one, and went on to Cincinnati. The journey
was very interesting. For a long way it was through a series
of small valleys bounded by low vertical bluffs and sandstone,
and with many lateral valleys opening out of them, with

xxxI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO        141

wooded slopes above. In the flat valley-bottoms the whitewashed American planes were abundant, and in the villages

peach trees were in blossom, but there was no sign of spring

foliage in the woods. We then passed through a country of

horizontal beds of rock, alternately hard and soft, looking like

our Oolite, but really of Silurian age.

I remained in Cincinnati twelve days, met a good many

people who were very kind to me, and saw a good deal of

the very interesting country around the city. I also had the

use of the Cuvier Club, where there was a nice collection of

American birds, a library, reading-room, chess-room, etc.,

equally accessible on Sunday as during the week. Among

my first visitors next morning was Mr. Charles Dury, an enthusiastic naturalist and collector, and Mr. R. H. Warder, also

fond of natural history. They took me to call on Mr. J. R.

Skinner, who showed me some fine arrow-heads of jade, and

then took us for a drive round the beautiful suburb of Clifton,

where the handsome villas are scattered about a wooded

park-like country, with shrubs and wild flowers, but with no

fences of any kind, either between the different properties or

along the road-sides. This gives a delightfully rural aspect to

the whole place, and enables every one to enjoy an uninterrupted view over the hills and valleys, and also to walk across

in any direction that he may be going. Returning, Mr.

Skinner asked me to dine with him, and talked about

spiritualism, pyramid and Bible measures, etc., etc. For two

hours he poured out Hebrew names and mystic numbers,

deducing 7r, and all kinds of geometrical data and measures

from Hebrew biblical names. He seemed to be a regular

"paradoxer," and afterwards gave me many papers he had

published, but I was quite unable to follow them, or to decide

whether or not there was anything of value in them. In all

other subjects he was a pleasant companion, interested in

local antiquities, and an enthusiastic lover of native birds.

In the evening Dr. H -- and Dr. L -- called on me.

The former stayed an hour and a half, a great talker, mostly

about himself, his sayings and thinkings, his philosophy, his

admiration of Herbert Spencer, his recollection of Sir Charles

I42
MY LIFE
(C HAP.
Lyell, etc., etc. On Saturday, May i6, I went with Mr.
Skinner to meet Mr. Warder at Valley Junction, about
twenty miles below Cincinnati, and he drove us in a light
waggon a few miles to see some old Indian mounds. One
very large tumulus, about twenty-five feet high, had been
opened by a pit in the centre down to the ground level. At
a farmhouse near we found that the farmer had opened it,
had found a skeleton, two copper bracelets, several large
stone weapons and tools, some very finely worked, and a
lump of pure graphite. Mr. Skinner thought that graphite
had never been found before in the mounds. On the way
back we saw a very large elongate mound, covered with trees
and close to a village. The valley of the Ohio was here
very pleasant, with its rich fields and low wooded hills of
varied outline. Many birds were seen, the brown thrush,
red-winged blackbird, and many others, all well known to
my companions. The American Judas tree (Cercis canadensis) was in full flower and very abundant, and the little
spring beauty (Claytonia virginiana) formed sheets of pale
pink blossoms on the skirts of the woods. We saw a few
patches of virgin forest on the hills, and here and there a
rather fine tree, but these are always scarce.
The following day being very wet, our excursion to the
Madisonville Cemeteries was delayed a week. But on Sunday, the 24th, Dr. Dunn took me in his buggy, accompanied
by several other friends in a carriage, for a long drive to
the Turner group of mounds, which are very extensive, but
have been ploughed over. Near them is the cemetery, consisting of a great number of small mounds in a wood, many
of which have been opened, and bones, with numbers of
stone weapons, ornaments, etc., found in them. Circular
plates of mica are common here. On the way back we
visited a field where quantities of pottery, flints, bones, etc.,
have been found near to a small oval mound. The country
we passed through was very pleasant, and some of it quite
picturesque, with swelling hills, ridges, and valleys, often
finely wooded and park-like.
During the week preceding this excursion I had spent

xxxI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO I43
four days with Mr. Dury at Avondale, where he has a small
house and some land. There were some patches of the
original forest near, with moist little valleys, and here I saw
for the first time the American spring vegetation in its full
beauty. The woods were full of an anemone-like flower
(Thalictrumz anemonoides), the curious Dutchman's breeches
(Dicentra cucullaria) in continuous sheets, the spring beauty
(Claytonia pulchella) equally abundant, with patches of Phlox
divaricata, the dwarf blue Delphinium tricorne, the little blueeyed Mary (Collinsia verna), yellow, blue, and white violets,
7effersonia diphylla, and many other flowers strange to
English eyes. During one walk I found a fine plant of
Mertensia virginica in flower. But though these were wonderfully attractive to me, owing to there being so many forms of
flower quite unknown in England, the actual amount of floral
colour and beauty was not to be compared with our own.
There was nothing to equal the sheets of bluebells, primroses, and anemones in our woods, the buttercups and early
orchises of our meadows, or the marsh-marigolds of our
marshes and river-banks. This subject of the comparative
abundance and the striking differences between North
America and Europe in this respect I have discussed somewhat fully in my Fortnightly Review article on " English
and American Flowers," reprinted in my " Studies, Scientific
and Social" (vol. i. p. I99).
One evening when at Mr. Dury's an interviewer called,
and showed the most remarkable ignorance. He thought
Darwin's theory was limited to the change of monkeys into
men; that Englishmen were all either Lord Dundrearys or
roughs; that the lowest Cockney talk was the "English
accent," which he was much surprised that I did not possess;
and, above all, that America was the finest and the greatest
country in the world, and that all who were born elsewhere
were to be pitied and condoled with. But this was quite an
exceptional type. All my other American interviewers were
educated men and knew their business.
My friend Mr. Dury had had the rare experience
of being bitten by a dead rattlesnake with very painful

I44
MY LIFE
[C HP.
consequences. When in Florida he shot a very large rattlesnake, and decided to take its head only, in order to examine
its dentition. He opened its mouth with a stick, and saw it had
tremendous fangs, and proceeded to tie it up in a handkerchief, and while doing so supposes he must have touched a
nerve in the cut part, for the mouth suddenly snapped, and a
fang pierced his thumb. He instantly put a ligature round
the base of the thumb, got a friend who was with him to lance
it deeply with a penknife, and sucked it for some time. On
taking off the ligature an hour afterwards, the arm swelled as
well as the side of his body, and he suffered great pain. He
applied water constantly, drank a good deal of whisky, and
kept quiet for some days; but the thumb suppurated, and
half the bone of the terminal joint came away. Then it
healed, but the thumb was reduced to about half its normal
size, with a correspondingly small nail; but it is quite
serviceable, and being so small is for many purposes more
useful than the other!
Mr. Dury had a very fine collection of land and freshwater shells from all parts of the States, and I spent one
morning looking over them. They were exceedingly numerous, and of curious forms, many having strange contortions
of the lips, supposed to be for the purpose of protection
against the smaller birds, ants, etc. The freshwater shells
-mostly mussels (Unionidae)-were wonderfully fine and
varied, some curiously tubercled, some with ribs, others with
long spines. They are also often finely coloured insidewhite, pink, yellow, or orange-while in many of the species
there is a variation of form in the two sexes. Altogether
it was a most interesting collection. Mr. Dury told me he
began collecting when a boy, owing to a gentleman offering
him a few cents for every different kind of shell he could
find, however small, and he was thus led to search for them,
and to notice their forms and colours, and was surprised to
find how many different kinds there were, even within a
walk of his own home. He was thus induced to become a
professional collector. There are about two hundred and
fifty species of land-shells in temperate North America,

XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO

I45

while the fresh-water species are still more numerous, its

magnificent water-system, including the great lakes and such

grand rivers as the Mississippi, being richer in mollusca than

any other part of the world, considerably more than a

thousand species having been described.

On Friday, April 22, I returned to Cincinnati to deliver

my lectures on "The Colours of Animals" for the Natural

History Society. The audience was, however, a small one,

and the lantern very bad, so that the slides were not shown

to advantage, but the subject was evidently so new to the

hearers that they were much interested. The next evening

I gave the same lecture at College Hill, fifteen miles out of

town. I had tea with Dr. and Mrs. Myers, who were pleasant

and sympathetic people. Dr. Myers told me that he had

become a sceptic through Spencer and Darwin, but is regaining belief through spiritualism. Here I had a good lamp, and

everything went off well; but I only received one hundred

dollars for the two lectures, out of which I had to pay fifteen

dollars for the lamp and operator at the last one, so that

my net receipts only paid my hotel bill. But I had a very

pleasant visit, and met a number of intelligent people.

My next engagement was at Bloomington, Indiana, where

I was to lecture on the Darwinian theory to the university

students. I stayed with Dr. Branner, the professor of

geology, who had spent many years in Brazil, so that we had

a common interest. He showed me his drawings of palms,

and photographs of Brazilian scenery. The university here,

like all colleges and schools in the West, is open to both

sexes. They meet in the classes, in lecture rooms, and in

debates on a perfect equality, and Mrs. Branner thinks the

results are entirely beneficial. The next morning Dr. Bianner took me a long drive through the country. The rocks

were of Carboniferous age, and were of limestone and sandstone in nearly horizontal strata, leading to pretty undulations of hill and valley, with abrupt slopes. We passed

through some fine tracts of forest, but there were very few

flowers, though the red maples in the woods, and the white

A melanchier canadensis were pretty.

VOL. 1.  L

I46
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Returning at 3 p.m., we found that my large roll of
diagrams, which could not be brought as passengers' luggage,
had not arrived, and I could not well give my lecture without
them. There was nothing for it but to make some rough
sketches from memory; so we went to the lecture-room, got
some large sheets of paper, and I sketched out the four or
five diagrams (of curves of variation, lines and dots showing
amounts of variation, etc.) on a small scale, and then Dr.
Branner and myself, with the assistance of one of the students,
set to work to enlarge them, and draw them in thick black
ink, the result at a distance being almost as good as the more
accurate originals, which turned up after I had left, and were
sent after me. Then we had to hurry back to dinner at 6.30,
to which several professors were asked to meet me, and then
to the lecture at 8, which went off very well, notwithstanding
the makeshift diagrams.
My next destination was Sioux City vid Kansas City, but
I stopped for a day at St. Louis in order to see the Trelease
Botanic Garden, recently given to the town, and which I had
heard highly spoken of. I travelled mostly through various
kinds of prairie country, level or rolling, with occasional hilly
tracts covered with wood. Everywhere some wood was in
sight, and the land seemed very rich; but the general effect
was usually ragged from the ugly, rough wood fences. Crossing
the fine three-arched bridge over the Mississippi to St. Louis,
I went to the Laclade Hotel. After breakfast next morning
I called on Dr. Trelease, who was out. I then went on to
the gardens, a little outside the city. Though rather poor as
a botanical garden, there were a number of fine conservatories and plant-houses, and plenty of seats. The many
American, Rocky Mountain, and other plants I wanted to see
were not to be found, ordinary South European garden plants
and a few Cape and Australian species being the chief occupants of the garden. In the afternoon Dr. Trelease called
on me. He was a youngish, pleasant man, and we had two
hours' talk on natural history and other subjects. He kindly
offered me plants, seeds, etc.
I left at 8.2o in a sleeping-car for Kansas City, and at

XXXIi WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
147
sunrise next morning saw the Missouri river on our right,
from half to three-quarters of a mile wide, the opposite bank
wooded. We soon left it, crossing the prairie in a nearly
straight line for Kansas City, over a rich alluvial plain, with
numerous clumps of trees-poplars, planes, etc. Steep bluffs,
from one hundred to two hundred feet high, were frequent,
either bare or wooded. As we approached the city we came
near the river again, and here there were bluffs of rock of
cretaceous sands or limestones-a typical rich prairie country.
The Missouri here was like liquid mud, with a swift stream
and numerous eddies. On reaching the city I breakfasted at
the Station Hotel, bought my ticket for Sioux City, and after
much trouble got my trunk and lecture diagrams checked
through. We started at i i and reached Council Bluffs, where
I had to stay the night, at 6.30, the whole way along level
prairie with the river always in sight. At the hotel here
were pleasant female waiters instead of the usual white,
brown, or black men waiters. Leaving early next morning
I saw abundance of water-birds, especially thousands of
grebes, scuttling off from the banks as the train passed, leaving long trails on the water. At Missouri Valley, a large
village, we had to wait an hour and a half. H-ere the plain
was several miles wide, bounded by sloping bluffs of loess,
often covered with deep black mould. I walked on to some
waste ground, but could find no flowers, the soil being
very dry, with a little grass and a few stunted shrubs just
sprouting. About twenty miles further we reached Sioux
City, where the bluffs come close to the river. The city is
on gentle slopes which merge into high rolling prairie inland,
intersected by deep valleys; but at this time of year it was
looking rather arid.
Three lectures had been arranged for me here by Mr.
D. H. Talbot on behalf of the Natural History Society, and
Mr. E. H. Stone had kindly offered me hospitality in his
very pretty house in the suburbs. In the afternoon Mr.
Talbot took me to call on a lady who made beautiful drawings in oil of native flowers. These were very skilfully
executed, and almost equal to those of Miss North at Kew. I

I48
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
lectured here Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, on " Colours
of Animals," " Mimicry," and " Oceanic Islands," and every day
had drives or excursions about the country or to Mr. Talbot's
zoological farm. On the Sunday morning after my arrival
Mr. Talbot called in a two-horsed buggy to take me to his
farm; two other gentlemen in another; Judge Wakefield,
Miss W. (the lady who painted flowers), and two children in a
third. We first went to a bluff near the town to see a thick
bed of loess resting on glacial drift, and this on Cretaceous
sandstone. Then up the valley of the great Sioux river, a
fine, clear stream, passing another bluff showing a thick bed
of obliquely stratified gravel with enclosed pebbles and
boulders, and about one hundred and fifty feet of loess over
it. We then turned up a thinly wooded valley to Mr. Talbot's
farm, about four miles from the city. Here we picnicked in
a rather scrubby wood with very little shade, as no leaves
were yet out, and it was very hot and dusty; but we had
quite a luxurious feast and enjoyed ourselves thoroughly,
lighting a fire and making tea and coffee to finish with.
We then inspected our host's animals-six fine American
bisons, twelve elks, an East Indian zebu, a drove of solidhoofed pigs, a flock of four-horned sheep, hybrids of zebu
and cattle, a fine trotting colt, wolves, foxes, rabbits, wild
geese, and other aquatic birds, pigeons, rattlesnakes, and
other curious birds and reptiles. He has here six thousand
acres of land, wooded valleys, and prairie, where, besides
keeping all these animals in order to observe their habits,
make experiments on their instincts, etc., he carries on a
considerable business in growing agricultural seeds of choice
qualities, breeding the solid-hoofed hogs, which are said to
be superior for fattening purposes, as well as the four-horned
sheep, Angora goats, hybrid cattle, etc. He has also
patented metallic tags for identifying cattle and other farm
stock, and several agricultural implements. These animals
are all looked after by youths trained by himself-boys and
girls, who are, he finds, as soon as they take an interest in
the work, much more trustworthy than any men. He has
also a large building for a museum, or rather laboratory, of

XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
I49
experimental zoology. Here he showed me several hundred
skins of wild geese, roughly prepared, but every one with
numbered labels giving the date, hour, and exact spot where
they were each shot, with the direction of their flight, while
the contents of the stomach of each is preserved for examination. These have been obtained from various north-western
States, and by a close study of them he hopes to trace out
the exact course of their migration year by year. He hoped
that in time some of his land would be included within the
city limits, and would sell for a high price, in which case
he would leave the rest as a zoological experimental station
to the public. I made some suggestions to him as to experiments in regard to instinct, heredity, and evolution, which
were much needed, and he said he would take them in hand
when his affairs were more settled.
Sioux City had recently become a centre for agricultural
produce, and had a large pork-curing establishment; and, as
in many other Western cities, there had been " a great boom
in real estate." Land two miles from the town, which was
bought three or four years back for ten dollars an acre, is now
selling at a hundred and fifty dollars; while in the residential
parts of the city plots of one hundred and fifty feet square
sell for nine thousand dollars, equal to ~I8oo, or about ~"3500
per acre, and in the business part of the city twice as much.
One morning Mr. Talbot took me to see the pork-curing
establishment, where, during the season, they kill a thousand
hogs a day. The animals are collected in pens close to the
building, with a gate opening to an inclined pathway of
planks up to the top of the building. They walk up this of
their own accord in a continuous procession, and at the top
are caught up one after another by a chain round their hind
legs, and swung on to the men who kill, scald, scrape, and
cut them up; all the separate parts going through the
several stages of cleaning and curing till the result is bacon,
hams, barrels of pork, black puddings, sausages, and bristles,
while the whole of the refuse is dried and ground up into a
valuable manure. The ingenuity of the whole process is

150
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
undeniable; but to go through it all, as I was obliged to do,
along narrow planks and ladders slippery with blood and
water, and in the warm, close, reeking atmosphere, was
utterly disgusting. My friend was, however, quite amazed
at my feeling anything but admiration of the whole establishment, which was considered one of the sights and glories
of the city.
On coming out I was told something that interested me
more than the wholesale pork factory had done. A gentleman was standing at the door of an office close by, and in
the course of conversation with him, the subject of tornadoes
came up, in reference to one that had done some damage
there two years before. There was a very large iron oil
reservoir a few yards from the office, something like the
largest-sized cylindrical steam boilers, supported on a strong
wooden framework. The tornado struck this cylinder, lifted
it off its support, and threw it down some yards away. Yet
our friend's office and other small wooden buildings close by
were absolutely untouched by it. This illustrates a peculiar
feature of these storms, which, though sometimes sweeping
along the surface and destroying everything in their track
for miles, at other times seem to pass overhead, descending
occasionally to the surface and then rising again, picking up
a house or a tree at intervals. The kind of destruction a
tornado often produce is well shown in the photograph of
the main street of Sauk Rapids, Minnesota, after the tornado
of the preceding year (April 14, i886). This town is about
two hundred miles north of Sioux City.
Leaving Sioux City in the afternoon, with several stoppages and changes I reached Kansas City at six next morning. After breakfasting there, I went on to Lawrence through
a pretty country in the valley of the Kansas river, the rich
alluvial land still partly covered with wood, and apparently
unoccupied. Several camps of emigrants (or migrants) with
waggons, etc., were passed. On the sides of the railway
there were dots, clumps, and even large patches of the beautiful Phlox divaricata, with brilliant bluish-purple flowers. No
other flower was seen, but the trees were just coming out

SAUK RAPIDS, MINNESOTA. EFFECTS OF A TORNADO.
[ ofacefp. I50, VOL. II.

4;)k

XXXI] WASHINGTON   TO SAN FRANCISCO 151

into leaf, hardly so forward as with us at the same time of

year, though twelve degrees further south.

At Lawrence, a small town of ten thousand inhabitants, is

the State University, where I was to lecture on the " Colours

of Animals." The buildings are on the top of a hill a little

way out of the town, on a plateau of rock almost like a

natural pavement. There are fine views over the plains of

Kansas all round, something like the view from Blackdown

over the Weald, but less woody and less cultivated. In the

museum I saw a good collection of the fossil plants from

West Kansas. They are found in a fine-grained iron sandstone, mostly in nodules which split open showing the leaf

most beautifully, often with the stalk and articulation perfect and in one case a complete bud in the axil of a leaf.

The interesting thing is, that they are mostly Dicotyledons

of very peculiar forms, though the rock is of Cretaceous age.

Icthyosaurus remains are also found, sometimes with portions

of the skin and keeled scales.

After my lecture in the evening there was a reception of

the professors and their families. I heard much of the coeducation system, and, as usual, all in its favour. A lady is

professor of Greek, and at Des Moines a lady is the principal, although there are pupils of both sexes up to eighteen

years old. Everywhere the girls hold their own with the

boys, and are often superior to them in languages. At the

last high school examination here, thirteen girls and eleven

boys "graduated."

Next day I went on to Manhattan, where there is a State

Agricultural College, at which I was to lecture. During the

journey of about one hundred miles, I passed through much

rich alluvial land, with rolling prairies in the distance. Sometimes there were bluffs of horizontal strata, with frequent

projecting masses of rock, many of which had broken off and

lay at the foot of the slope. There were many wooded

gullies with the trees nearly in full leaf, but no flowers anywhere. About the farmhouses there were usually a few

trees, also some good-looking orchards and a few vineyards.

At Manhattan, which I reached early in the afternoon, it

T52
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
was very hot and very dusty. At five o'clock President
Geo. F. F. Fairchild called, and we had some interesting
talk about the college. This, too, is open to both sexes, and
one-third of the pupils are women. Some come direct from
the common and high schools, others are adults. The men
learn the theory and practice of agriculture, agricultural
chemistry, English, mechanics, use of tools, etc. The girls
and women learn horticulture, cooking, domestic economy,
poultry rearing, etc. In the evening I strolled about the
town; no liquor-shops, but abundance of " real estate" and
loan offices, the former a common mode of gambling in
Western America.
Next morning (Sunday) Professor Marlott called with
Mr. Hogg, a young Englishman farming here, who had a
ranch of a thousand acres twelve miles out. He offered to
take me for a drive. We went a few miles round the city,
by fine grassy fields on the improved prairie, but saw very
few flowers. Mr. Hogg complained of the climate; the long
very cold winter, often 20~ below zero Fahr., and the hot
dusty summer. There are only a few pleasant months in
winter and spring, few nice houses, and no gardens. After
dinner I took a walk alone across the river to some woods
and alluvial meadows, but all very dusty and no flowers.
After tea, Professor E. A. Popenhoe, a botanist, called in his
buggy and took me for a drive to the top of a rocky bluff,
where there were a number of interesting plants, of which a
few were in flower, among them Tradescantia virginica, a
Sisyrinchium, a yellow Baptisia, etc.
On Monday morning I went to the college to put up my
diagrams, and was then, of course, taken over the buildings
from top to bottom. Everybody wanted to show me everything in their departments-the clothes the girls made, the
nice cupboards they kept the clothes in, the store-rooms for
flour, potatoes, sugar, spices, jams, etc., the kitchen and all its
arrangements. Then every class-room, and all the classes,
and all the teachers. Then out-of-doors to see the sheds
and stables, the cattle and the horses, and the machines;
how the calves and the cows are fed; to inspect the tool- and

xxxII WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
I53
work-shops, the gardens, the greenhouses, the tree-nursery,
etc., which latter interested me most.
I spent the afternoon at the hotel writing letters, and in
the evening I went to tea with President Fairchild-a regular
country high tea; cold meat, oranges, strawberries, cakes,
weak green tea, etc. We talked politics, and especially prohibition. Kansas, like Iowa, is a prohibition State; had been
so seven or eight years. It had had a most beneficial effect --
not one-twentieth of the noise, dirt, and bad language formerly
met with. I had noticed myself how quiet was the hotel and
the streets in the evenings. The feeling in favour of prohibition was increasing. Spirits were sold by druggists, with
mineral waters, etc.; but it was in the open shop, and did not
lead to drunkenness. And even this had been recently restricted. The President had never heard of the Gothenburg
system, but thought it good in principle. Afterwards I gave
my lecture on " Darwinism," which went off well, and gave
much satisfaction.
The next day, after dinner, Mr. Popenhoe came in his
buggy to show me some good botanizing ground, chiefly on
rather dry, rocky slopes with loose stones. Here we found a
fine dwarf, large-flowered form of Baptisia australis, besides
others seen on Sunday, and a number of very interesting
dwarf plants not yet in flower, including species of ruellia,
houstonia, echinacea, aster, delphinium, and others, which
make these banks very gay about the end of the month.
We also saw a phrynosoma, one of the curious lizards commonly known as "horned toads." A Californian species
which had been sent me by my brother, when irritated
ejects a red, blood-like secretion from its eye. Professor
Popenhoe had been in the Rocky Mountains, and told
me that flowers were very abundant, and that some of
the little valley-bottoms were complete flower gardens. I
received a letter from Colonel Phillips, whom I met at
Washington, and who invited me to stay a week with him
at Salina, a new town he had himself founded, and where he
was a large landowner.
Next day (May I I) I went on to Salina in the afternoon,

I54
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
and to the Wittanann Hotel, where Colonel and Mrs. Phillips
lived when in the country. On an elevation, called Iron Hill,
Colonel Phillips was going to build a house, which would
have a rather extensive view. The hill was covered with
yuccas, and with the elegant tradescantia with blue or pink
flowers in great abundance. I also found the fine dwarf
Baptisia and Penstemton cobca. As I required a lantern for
my lecture, we called first on a Mr. Seitz, a druggist, who
sent us to the Masonic Hall, but in vain. Then we tried the
Wesleyan College and the Normal University, but both were
recently established, and not the possessors of a lantern. At
length we found one at a Mr. Chapman's, but it was an
ordinary magic-lantern, suitable for a disc about four feet
diameter, and with a common oil-lamp, giving a poor light.
When the lecture was given, to add to my difficulties the
lamp went out in the middle, and I had to go on talking till
it was set right. There were only about a hundred people,
so that there were none very far off, and they seemed fairly
well satisfied.
One day we drove over to call on an old French farmer,
M. Joseph Henry, who was a botanist and a student of mosses
and grasses. He was out, but his wife showed us a little heap
of stones near the house, in which, on the north side, he had
a few very small mosses growing, one of them a new species
he had discovered, named after him, Barbula Henrici. It was
a shabby, rickety wooden farmhouse, with a few sheds in the
usual style of small prairie farmers. Going back we met the
owner returning home, and stayed a few minutes to talk.
He had been in the country twenty years but could only
speak very broken English, and when he found we could not
speak any better French, he was quite indignant that a
scientific man could not speak in his beautiful language-the
language of the civilized world! He made me feel quite
small. However, he managed to tell us that the American
botanists did not know their own country. "They all say
there are no mosses in Kansas. But I have found mosses!
I have found new species of mosses! And when I send them
my discoveries they will not give me the names-they will

xxxI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
I55
not write to me even!" So we condoled with him, and said
good-bye to the unappreciated botanist of the arid plains of
Kansas.
Twenty-nine years before my visit great herds of buffalo
roamed over the site of Salina, and there was not a house or
a hut for fifty miles around. It is now a rapidly growing town,
with five railways diverging from it, and land speculation is
rampant. In the business part of this small town lots twentyfive feet wide and one hundred and twenty deep, in the main
street, sell at from $6000 to $IO,ooo (from ~I200 to ~2000);
in the suburbs (a mile from centre of town) about $1200.
Farms near the town, of good land, can be had at from ~6 to
~Io an acre. But the climate, the solitude, the dreariness of
such a life must be a great drawback.
I left Salina in the evening of May i8 for Denver and
San Francisco. We soon reached open undulating prairie,
small villages or towns fifteen or twenty miles apart, and
often not a house visible; very little cultivation, and rarely
any trees. At five o'clock next morning, still in undulating
sandy plains with very little grass but a few tufts of herbaceous plants with white composite flowers. Then low hills
of horizontal strata of sandstone; and we crossed some
small streams in broad sandy beds, with sometimes a few
cotton-wood trees growing near them. Here I first saw some
of the prairie-dog cities, as they are called-sandy mounds
thrown up by these pretty rodents, one of which would be
often seen sitting upright on the top of it.
We reached Denver at 8.20, and having four hours to wait
here, after breakfast I called on Professor James H. Baker,
Principal of the High School, to inquire if he knew of any
local botanist who could give me information as to any good
localities in the mountains for alpine plants. He told me that
one of his lady teachers was a botanist, and took me into
her class-room. As she was engaged in giving a lesson on
ancient history to a class of boys and girls, we sat down and
waited till it was over, when I was introduced to her, and
we had an hour's talk, and she showed me dried plants she
had collected on Pike's Peak. She told me that Graymount,

156
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
near Gray's Peak, was a fine spot, and I decided to visit it on
my return from California.
At 1.30 p.m. I continued my journey to Cheyenne, across
open plains of thin grass partly irrigated. Near me in the train
was a lady chewing gum; I saw her at intervals for an hour,
her jaws going regularly all the time, just like those of a
cow when ruminating. Not a pleasant sight, or conducive
to beauty of expression. It must be tiring to beginners. We
had supper at Cheyenne, good, but a crush; and then turned
west up the slope towards a pass in the Rocky Mountains.
The valley we ascended was among rounded hills, more like
our downs than mountains. Though the country was quite
wild, there were here and there lines of high posts and rails of
strong, rough timber, sometimes on one side sometimes on
the other, sometimes below and sometimes above the level of
the railway. These, I was told, were snow-guards, and were
placed just where experience showed they would check the
drifts and keep the line clear. In a few places there were
snow-sheds with one or two short tunnels, and we reached the
summit level at 8 p.m., only 8240 feet above the sea. The
next morning we were going through similar rolling, halfdesert scenery, with greasewood bushes and bare sand or
mud flats white with alkali. At Green river, one of the upper
tributaries of the great Colorado river, we got into more
picturesque scenery, with rocks standing up like castles, and
further on rocky valleys, with wind-worn rocks in strange
detached pinnacles. Fine precipices occur at Echo Cafion
and Weber's Cafion. The Devil's Slide is formed by two
vertical dykes descending a steep mountain-side only two
or three feet apart, leaving a narrow passage or "slide"
between them.
Reaching Ogden in the afternoon, I took the train to Salt
Lake City, passing the fine highly cultivated plain on the
shores of Salt Lake, the fields being all irrigated. Some of
the meadows were blue with the beautiful Camassia esculenta,
an easily grown garden plant with us. I spent next morning
roaming about the city and suburbs. The tabernacle is a
wonderful hall that will seat six thousand persons, and is so

xxxI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO                  157

shaped that a speaker at one end can be heard distinctly

over the whole building when speaking in an ordinary conversational tone. To produce this effect it is a flat semiellipsoid, so that the regularly curved ceiling is very low for

the size of the building. But the result is acoustically perfect,

and such as none of our architects have equalled.

The city itself is in many respects unique and admirable.

It is a kind of " Garden " city, since every house (except in

the few business streets) stands in from half an acre to one

acre and a half of garden. Some are pretty stone-built villas,

some mere rude hovels, but all have the spacious garden.

And they are real gardens, the first I have seen in America,

full of flowers and fruit trees, and with abundant creepers

over the houses.

The streets are about one hundred and thirty feet wide,

with shady trees, and a channel of clear water on both sides

of each street brought from the mountain. Every garden is

thus supplied with abundance of water for irrigation, when

required, by small channels under the side walks, and sluice

gates to regulate the supply. Crops can thus be grown

during a large part of the year. I walked a few miles into

the country, and seeing a small house and pretty flower

garden with some of our commonest garden flowers, roses,

stocks, marigolds, etc., I spoke to a homely looking woman

and found she was Welsh. A good many Welsh have

become Mormons.

In the afternoon I returned to Ogden, and went on by

train in the evening. All the next day (Sunday, May 22)

we passed through an arid dreary country, the ground

covered with saline incrustations, and almost the only vegetation the sage bush (Artemisia spinescens). At the stations

in more fertile spots there was a little verdure and sometimes

a few wild flowers-cenotheras or composites. At all the

stations there were groups of Indians, usually with painted

faces but with European dress, one old man only with the

native blanket, boys shooting with bows and arrows, groups

of men and women playing cards. The passengers give them

money or buy ornaments, etc., and thus they live idly, get fat,

158
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
and are thoroughly demoralized. At Reno, where we supped,
the country began to get less arid, and there were some good
farms in the valleys. We passed over the pass of the Sierra
Nevada at night, and before sunrise were in the foothills of
California, bare, except for a few second-growth pines; then
farms, orchard, and vineyards, with eucalyptus trees planted
round the houses; then a low, flat country to Oakland, where
huge ferry-boats cross the bay to San Francisco.
Here my brother John, whom I had not seen since I left
for the Amazon in 1848, met me, and we went on to the
Baldwin Hotel in San Francisco, where he had taken rooms
for us, and had made arrangements for me to give two lectures
on Wednesday and Friday. In the afternoon we had many
callers, including Professor Holden of the Lick Observatory,
Dr. Leconte, Mr. Davidson of the Geological Survey, and
many others, as well as one or two interviewers. Dr. Holden
kindly invited us to dinner on Thursday, where we met Professor Hilgard and Mr. Sutro. The latter gentleman invited
us to breakfast with him at his beautiful cottage on the cliff,
looking over the Pacific and the seal rocks, and surrounded by
beautiful gardens. Mr. Sutro was a wealthy merchant and one
of the magnates of San Francisco; he gave us one of the most
luxurious and pleasant breakfasts I ever enjoyed, beginning
with cups of very hot, clear soup, followed by fish, cutlets,
game, etc., with various delicate wines, tea and coffee, hot
cakes of various kinds, and choice fruits. He entertained us
also with interesting conversation, being a man of extensive
knowledge and culture. My two lectures on " Darwinism"
and " Colour " were fairly attended.
On Saturday Dr. Gibbons of Alameda, on the Bay of
San Francisco, took me for a drive into the foothills to see the
remains of the Redwood forest that once covered them, but
which had all been ruthlessly destroyed to supply timber for
the city and towns around. Our companion was Mr. John
Muir, whose beautiful volume, " The Mountains of California," is, in its way, as fine a piece of work as Mr. Hudson's
"Naturalist in La Plata." On our way we passed a dry hilly
field, brilliant with hundreds of the lovely Cacochor/us lvteus,

XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO  I59

which grew in a soil of stiff, hard-baked clay. We wound

about among the hills and valleys, all perfectly dry;Ttm we

reached a height of fifteen hundred feet, where many clumps

of young redwoods were seen, and, stopping at one of these,

Dr. Gibbons took me inside a circle of young trees from

twenty to thirty feet high, and showed me that they all grew

on the outer edge of the huge charred trunk of an old tree

that had been burnt down. This stump was thirty-four feet

in diameter, or quite as large as the very largest of the more

celebrated Big Trees, the Sequoia gigantea. The doctor has

searched all over these hills, and this was the largest stump

he had found, though there were numbers between twenty

and thirty feet. The tree derives its botanical name, sempervirens, from the peculiar habit of producing young trees

from the burnt or decayed roots of the old trees. These

enormous trees, being too large to cut down, were burnt till

sufficiently weakened to fall, and this particular tree had been

so burnt about forty years before. We lunched inside this

ancient mammoth tree, and saw several others on the way

back. Among the few plants I saw in flower were the

Diplacus glutinosus, a favourite in our greenhouses.

The next day we went to Stockton, where my brother

lived, and found his wife, whom I had last seen as a little

girl, two of his sons and his only daughter, as well as two of

his grandchildren. I gave one lecture in Stockton-a combination of Darwinism and Oceanic Islands-but only had

a small audience. I made the acquaintance here of Mr.

Freeman, a friend of my brother, who had called on me at

Godalming with his wife two or three years before, on their

way round the world on a pleasure tour. He told me then

that he had had good luck in his business, had made a few

thousand dollars, his only daughter was just married, so he

thought that he and his wife might as well see the world.

On asking him how he had made the money, he said, " By

handling mules," and this enigmatic profession was explained as buying them in some of the Western States, where

they are largely bred, and selling them in Nevada, where

there was a great demand for them at the mines, etc. Now

i6o
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
he had taken to store-keeping, while his wife kept poultry,
and as soon as they had made some more money they
meant to go another tour. They had been through Central
Europe and Italy, the Holy Land, India, China, Japan,
and the Sandwich Islands, and had brought home many
ornaments and fabrics from the East; but what Mrs.
Freeman most valued were some bottles of water which
she had filled with her own hands from the River Jordan.
This water she had given to some of her dearest friends to
baptize their children with, a distinction of the highest
kind.
While in San Francisco I had agreed to give a lecture on
" Spiritualism," under the management of Mr. Albert Morton,
and I went over on Sunday, June 5, and had an audience
of over a thousand people in the Metropolitan Theatre. The
title of my lecture was, " If a Man die, shall he live again? "
The audience was most attentive, and it was not only a
better audience, but the net proceeds were more than for any
single scientific lecture I gave in America. I had spent the
morning in the fine Golden Gate Park, where I saw some
eucalyptus trees over sixty feet high, with numerous acacias
and other greenhouse plants growing out-of-doors. I also
had a fine view of the extensive sandhills, covered with huge
clumps of blue and yellow tree-lupines, which produced a
splendid effect. The interesting stances I had here will be
described later on.
Returning to Stockton, I went with my brother and his
daughter for a few days in the Yosemite Valley. The
journey there-two hours by rail and two days by coachwas very interesting, but often terribly dusty. The first day
we were driving for nine hours in the foothills, among old
mining camps with their ruined sheds and reservoirs and
great gravel heaps, now being gradually overgrown by young
pines and shrubs. Here and there we passed through bits of
forest with tall pines and shrubby undergrowth, but generally
the country was bare of fine trees, scraggy, burnt up, and the
roads insufferably dusty. At 9 p.m. we reached Priest's (two

xxxI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO

I6I

thousand five hundred feet elevation), where we had supper,

bed, and breakfast.

Next day was much more enjoyable. The road was

wonderfully varied, always going up or down, diving into

deep wooded valleys with clear and rapid streams, then up

the slope, winding round spurs, crossing ridges, and down

again into valleys, but always mounting higher and higher.

And as we got deeper into the sierra, the vegetation continually changed, the pines became finer both in form, size,

and beauty. At about three thousand feet we first saw the

beautiful Douglas fir, and the cedar (Libocedruo decurrens),

both common in our gardens; then still higher there were

silver firs and the fine Picea nobilis, as well as a few of the Big

Trees (Sequoia gigantea), the road being cut right through the

middle of one of these (at about five thousand eight hundred

feet). Higher up still we saw the tamarisk pine (Pinus

contorta) and the grand sugar-pine (Pinus Lambertiana) the

resin of which is quite sugary, with very little of the turpentine taste; and among these, especially on the valley slopes,

is an undergrowth of the beautiful white azalea and the handsome dogwood (Cornus Nuttallii), with very large white bracts.

Then on the highest spur (seven thousand feet), where there

were still patches of snow, we saw many of the strange snow

plants (Sarcodes sanguinea), a thick fleshy root-parasite with a

dense spike of flowers of a blood-red colour. It belongs to

the heath family, and is allied to our Monotropa hypopitys.

The sarcodes is figured in one of Miss North's pictures at

Kew. From the summit we descended towards the valley, and

then down a steep zigzag road, with the beautiful Bridal Veil

Fall opposite, and the grand precipice of El Capitan before us,

then into the valley itself with its rushing river, to the hotel

in the dusk.

As both hotel and excursions were here very costly, we

only stayed two clear days, and went one " excursion " to the

Nevada Fall, the grandest, if not the most beautiful, in the

valley. My brother and niece rode up, but I walked to enjoy

the scenery, and especially the flowers and ferns and the fine

glaciated rocks of the higher valley. The rest of my time I

VOL. II.             M

i 62
MY LIFE
[CHA P.
spent roaming about the valley itself and some of its lower
precipices, looking after its flowers, and pondering over its
strange, wild, majestic beauty and the mode of its formation.
On the latter point I have given my views in an article on
" Inaccessible Valleys," reprinted in my " Studies." The
hotel dining-room looks out upon the Yosemite Falls, which,
seen one behind the other, have the appearance of a single
broken cascade of more than two thousand five hundred feet.
I walked up about a thousand feet to get a nearer view of the
upper fall, which, in its ever-changing vapour-streams and
water-rockets, is wonderfully beautiful. To enjoy this valley
and its surroundings in perfection, a small party should come
with baggage-mules and tents, as early in the season as possible when the falls are at their grandest and the flowers in
their spring beauty, and where, by camping at different stations
in the valley and in the mountains and valleys around it, all
its wonderful scenes of grandeur and beauty could be explored
and enjoyed. It is one of the regrets of my American tour
that I was unable to do this.
Returning from the Nevada Falls on foot, I had the
advantage of passing close to the lower Vernal Fall, where a
natural parapet of rock enables one to look over and almost
touch the water at the brink of the fall, which shoots clear of
the rock and falls four hundred feet. Here, with great skill
and daring, a series of ladders has been constructed from
ledge to ledge to near the foot of the fall, whence a thoroughly alpine path leads down to the main valley. Growing
in clefts of the rock, and wetted by the spray of the fall, was
the beautiful Pentstenon Neewberryi-a dwarf shrub with
deep-red flowers, more like those of some ericaceous plant
than a pentstemon. On the return journey I noted several
interesting plants. At Crockett's (where we dined), a little
beyond the summit, there was a vase full of the beautiful
orchis Cypripediun montanum, which they told me grew in
the bogs near; and I also found the brilliant scarlet Silene
Californica. Lower down, the Calochortus venustus was abundant and in richly varied colour, the curious Brodiaa volubilis,
and the handsome blue B. grand=ora.

XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
I63
On our way back I turned off at the foot of the hills to
visit the Calaveras Grove of big trees which my brother and
niece had seen before, and I had to sleep on the way. I
stayed three days, examining and measuring the trees, collecting flowers, and walking one day to the much larger south
grove six miles off, where there are said to be over a thousand full-grown trees. The walk was very interesting, over
hill and valley, through forest all the way, except one small
clearing. At a small rocky stream I found the large Saxifraga peltata growing in crevices of rocks just under water,
and I passed numbers of fine trees of all the chief pines, firs,
and cypresses. At the grove there were numbers of very fine
trees, but none quite so large as the largest in the Calaveras
Grove. Many of them are named. "Agassiz" is thirty-three
feet wide at base, and has an enormous hole burnt in it
eighteen feet wide and the same depth, and extending
upwards ninety feet like a large cavern; yet the tree is in
vigorous growth. The Sequoias are here thickly scattered
among other pines and firs, sometimes singly, sometimes in
groups of five or six together. There are many twin trees
growing as a single stem up to twenty or thirty feet, and then
dividing. But the chief feature of this grove is the abundance
of trees to be seen in every direction, of large or moderate
size, and with clean, straight stems showing the brilliant
orange-brown tint and silky or plush-like glossy surface,
characteristic of the bark of this noble tree when in full
health and vigorous growth. In no forest that I am acquainted with is there any tree with so beautiful a bark or
with one so thick and elastic.
In the chapter on "Flowers and Forests of the Far
West" (in my " Studies "), I have given a summary of the
chief facts known about these trees, with particulars of their
dimensions and probable age. I need not, therefore, repeat
these particulars here. But of all the natural wonders I saw
in America, nothing impressed me so much as these glorious
trees. Like Niagara, their majesty grows upon one by living
among them. The forests of which they form a part contain a number of the finest conifers in the world-trees that

164
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
in Europe or in any other Northern forest would take the
very first rank. These grand pines are often from two hundred
to two hundred and fifty feet high, and seven or eight feet in
diameter at five feet above the ground, where they spread
out to about ten feet. Looked at alone, these are noble
trees, and there is every gradation of size up to these. But
the Sequoias take a sudden leap, so that the average fullgrown trees are twice this diameter, and the largest three
times the diameter of these largest pines; so that when first
found the accounts of the discoveries were disbelieved. My
brother told me an interesting story of this discovery. The
early miners used to keep a hunter in each camp to procure
game for them, venison, and especially bear's meat being
highly esteemed. These men used to search the forests for
ten or twenty miles round the camps while hunting. The
hunter of the highest camp on the Stanislaus river came
home one evening, and after supper told them of a big tree
he had found that beat all he had ever seen before. It had
three times as big a trunk as any tree within ten miles round.
Of course they all laughed at him, told him they were not
fools: they knew what trees were as well as he did; and
so on. Then he offered to show it them, but none would go;
they would not tramp ten or twelve miles to be made fools
of. So the hunter had to bide his time. A week or two
afterwards he came home one Saturday night with a small
bag of game; but he excused himself by saying that he had
got the finest and fattest bear he had ever killed, and as next
day was Sunday he thought that six or eight of them would
come with him and bring the meat home.
The next morning a large party started early, and after
a long walk the hunter brought them suddenly up to the
big tree, and, clapping his hand on it, said, "Here's my fat
bear. When I called it a tree, you wouldn't believe me.
Who's the fool now?" This was the great pavilion tree
of the Calaveras Grove, twenty-six feet in diameter at five
feet from the ground-over eighty feet in circumference, so
that it would require fourteen tall men with arms outstretched to go round it. This tree was cut down by boring

xxxI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
I65
into the trunk at six feet from the ground with long pumpaugers from each side, so as to meet in the centre. The first
fourteen feet was then cut into sections, and one supplied to
each of the older States. The rest remains as it fell, and can
be walked on to a distance of about two hundred and ten feet
from the stump, and here it is still six feet in diameter. To
examine this wonderful wreck of the grandest tree then living
on our globe is most impressive. The rings on the stump of
this tree have been very carefully counted by Professor Bradley, of the University of California, and were found to be I240,
which no doubt gives the age of the tree very accurately, as
the winters are here severe, and the season of growth very
well marked.
On reaching Stockton, on Saturday evening, I found a
letter from Senator Leland Stanford, one of the Californian
millionaires whom I had met at Washington, inviting me to
visit him at his country house at Menlo Park on the following
Monday. Senator Stanford's father was a large farmer near
Albany, New York State, who was also the first railroad
contractor in America. Up to twenty years of age he had
lived and worked for his father. He then became a lawyer,
and when his studies were completed, went to Wisconsin to
practise. A few years later he removed to California, where
he had several brothers who were merchants, and after keeping a store of his own, and thus acquiring business knowledge,
he joined them. In I86I he became Governor of California
and President of the Central Pacific Railroad Company, of
which he was one of the founders, and by means of which,
with the large State and Union subsidies to help its construction and the enormous grants of land which became of
value through the making of the railroad, he acquired his
great fortune of five or six millions sterling.
When I met him and Mrs. Stanford in Washington,
through the introduction of Mrs. Beecher Hooker, it was as
a spiritualist, and to talk about spiritualism. Their only son,
a youth of sixteen, had died three years before at Florence,
and they both assured me that they had since had longcontinued intercourse through several different mediums, and

I66
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
under circumstances that rendered doubt impossible. Senator
Stanford has shown himself throughout his life a man of
exceptional ability and intellectual vigour, and would hardly
be imposed upon in such a matter.
Mr. Stanford met me at the station, and drove me to
his house, about a mile and a half. It is a large, roomy
cottage, luxuriously furnished, with very wide verandahs
shaded by trees and awnings, carpeted and furnished so as to
form open-air rooms, very delightful in a Californian summer.
The grounds are spacious and fairly wooded with some old
pines and large eucalypti, as well as many beautiful shrubs.
For some distance round the house there are grass lawns, as
green and smooth as any I have ever seen, with beautiful
borders and flower-beds, the whole kept in the most perfect
order by Chinese gardeners, with water laid on everywhere to
keep up the perpetual verdure during the six or seven months
of continuous heat and drought.
In the house, as in the garden, all the servants are Chinamen and boys, and both Mr. and Mrs. Stanford spoke of
them in the highest terms. One of these boys had charge of
her private rooms, and as they continually moved backward
and forward between this house and their mansion at San
Francisco, going and coming without notice, on her return
she always found everything in the most perfect order, and
has never missed the smallest article, though jewellery
was often left on her dressing-table. Mr. Stanford declared
that the Chinese had been the making of California,
doing all kinds of domestic work, gardening, and shopkeeping when every European was rushing after gold. He
had incurred much obloquy on account of his opposition
to the anti-immigration laws and through his employing
Chinese servants, but had now, to a large extent, lived it
down.
After dinner we drove out to see some of the other
millionaires' residences. The most remarkable of these was
Mr. Flood's-a kind of fairy palace built entirely of wood,
highly decorated with towers and pinnacles, and painted pure
white throughout. There were also fine grounds and gardens,

XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
I67
but none we saw were so exquisitely kept up as Mr. Stanford's
by his thirty Chinese gardeners.
Next morning I was taken to see the site of the great
university he was going to build to the memory of his son.
He had here about eight thousand acres of land, in the midst
of which the buildings and residences were to stand. There
were large wooden offices close by, occupied by the architect
and draughtsmen preparing the plans and working drawings;
and the surrounding land was already planted with shadetrees and avenues. The plans showed a central chapel in a
Norman, or rather Moorish, style of architecture, surrounded
by low, one-storey buildings arranged around spacious courts,
about five hundred feet by two hundred and fifty feet, to be
laid out in grass, trees, and flower-beds. These buildings
were to comprise dwellings for professors and students, classrooms, workshops, libraries, museums, etc., and could be almost
indefinitely extended as desired. It was intended for all
classes, from the poorest to the most wealthy, and to furnish
a complete education from the kindergarten up to the highest
departments of human knowledge, including the applications
of science to industry and the arts. Arrangements would be
made for the students to board themselves at the lowest
possible cost. Mr. Stanford had gone into this question, and
he assured me that in the best American hotels, where the
rates are four or five dollars a day, the actual cost of the
food, including cooking, is not more than from two or three
dollars a week for each person.l
1 My friend, Professor J. C. Branner, has kindly sent me the latest register of
the university, together with a popular account of it, with excellent photographic
illustrations and plans; and it may interest my readers to have some particulars of
this newest and in many respects most remarkable, of great educational institutions.
The whole design, of which I saw the drawings, appears to have been now
carried out, and the result is very striking. The educational buildings, including a
magnificent church, are arranged around a central quadrangle, five hundred and
eighty feet long by two hundred and forty-six feet wide. Around this are arranged
twenty-six spacious buildings, each devoted to one department of study, and these
are grouped around a series of outer courts, the whole forming a quadrangle
about nine hundred feet by seven hundred and seventy feet. Quite detached, at
various distances around, are the boarding-houses for the students, the residences
of the professors, a general library, gymnasium, workshops, and laboratories, and
a magnificent museum round a central court, six hundred feet by two hundred feet.

i68
MY LIFE
[CHAY.
Senator Stanford had a very high opinion of his adopted
State, California, as being the richest part of the Union. He
dilated on its million inhabitants producing corn enough for
ten millions, of its illimitable possibilities of fruit production,
and on the general well-being of the people. He expressed
surprise that we do not federate all our English-speaking
colonies, and thus form a "union " comparable in strength
and extent with their own; and it is no doubt the great and
The educational portion is massively constructed of stone or concrete, and a very
striking feature, and one well adapted to the climate, is that both the inner and the
outer quadrangles are surrounded by continuous arcades, supported on massive
stone pillars with groined roofs and about twenty feet wide, thus affording com.
munication between the whole of the buildings, with complete protection from the
ardent sun of California. These magnificent cloisters aggregate a mile and a
quarter in length; and at the more important entrances the semicircular arches are
highly decorated with carved ornamentation in the Mooresque style, and are
supported on clustered columns.
The museum is a very fine building in a graceful Romano-Grecian style, and is
full of fine works of art of all periods, as well as specimens of natural history. But
ornament has been most lavishly bestowed upon the church, which is cruciform,
one hundred and ninety feet long by one hundred and sixty feet wide, with a
central tower, one hundred and ninety feet high. It is decorated with costly
mosaic work both inside and out, and must be one of the most magnificent of
modern churches.
At the present time there are more than fifteen hundred students, and nearly one
hundred and fifty professors and teachers. The entire education is free for residents in
California, with very moderate fees for those from other States. The entire cost of
board and lodging, with incidental expenses, is about ~6o a year; but it is stated that
a very considerable number of the students are able to support themselves by about
three hours' daily work, either in or outside the university, more especially those
who are bookbinders, printers, carpenters, or mechanics; while many others, who
can perform any domestic or manual labour thoroughly, can do the same. There
are also several scholarships, which give free education and board.
The university has been endowed by Senator and Mrs. Stanford with about
eighty thousand acres of land, besides the estate of Palo Alto in which it is situated
(about nine thousand acres) and the Stanford mansion in San Francisco, amount.
ing in all to about six millions sterling. It only remains to state the purpose for
which the university was established by its founders.
" The object of the university is to qualify students for personal success and
direct usefulness in life; it purposes to promote the public welfare by exercising
an influence in behalf of humanity and civilization, teaching the blessings of liberty
regulated by law, and inculcating love and reverence for the great principles of
government as derived from the inalienable rights of man to life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness."
It is to be hoped that this last clause will be taught in its spirit as well as in its
letter. Never, surely, has a grander memorial been raised by parents to a beloved
son.

XXXI] WASHINGTON TO SAN FRANCISCO
I69
fatal mistake of our Governments not to have seen this before
it has become too late, and the absurd and useless tariffs in
every colony have created insuperable difficulties to what
would at first have been natural and acceptable to all. His
view as to the general well-being of the people was, however,
fallacious. He looked at the world, just as our legislators
do, from the point of view of the employer and the capitalist,
not seeing that their prosperity to a large extent depended
on the presence of a mass of workers struggling for a bare
subsistence. At the very time of our interview the actual
fruit-grower could hardly earn the scantiest subsistence,
because he was dependent on the middlemen and railway
companies to get his crop to market, and because the very
abundance of the crop often so lowered prices as to make it
not pay to gather and pack. Since then, year by year, the
unemployed and the tramp have been increasing in California
as in the Eastern States, while San Francisco reproduces all
the phenomena of destitution, vice, and crime characteristic
of our modern great cities. But neither capitalists nor workers
yet see clearly that production for profit instead of for use
necessarily leads to those results. The latter class, however,
thanks to the socialists, are rapidly learning the fundamental
principle of social economy. When they have learnt it, the
beneficent and peaceful revolution will commence which will
steadily but surely abolish those most damning results of
modern (so-called) civilization-insanitary labour, degrading
over-work, involuntary unemployment, misery, and starvation
-among those whose labour produces that ever-increasing
wealth which their employers are proud of, and which their
rulers so criminally misuse.
On returning to Stockton I went with my brother to
Santa Cruz, one of the health resorts on the Pacific coast
south of San Francisco, and thence to the forest tract of the
Coast Range, where are a few of the finest trees of the redwood left in Southern California. We stayed the night at the
hotel, and till the following afternoon, quite alone. The trees
themselves are more beautiful than those of the Sequoia

I7o  MY LIFE         [CHAP. XXXI]

gigantea, the foliage being more like that of our yew. The

largest tree is forty-seven feet round at six feet from the

ground (sixty feet at the base), and only a few feet less than

three hundred feet high. The forests in which they grow

are not, however, either so picturesque or so full of other fine

trees, shrubs, and flowers as are those of the Sierra Nevada.

While at Santa Cruz for a day, both going and returning,

I saw something of the luxuriance of Californian gardens.

The common scarlet geranium grew into large bushes, forming

clumps six or eight feet high, a mass of dazzling colour, and

in the small back garden of a lady we visited was a plant of

Tacsonia van Volxemi, which grew all over the house, and

had sent branches out to an apple tree some yards away, and

covered it completely with its foliage and hundreds of its

drooping crimson flowers. On the sand of the sea-beach

were masses of calandrinia a yard across, covered with their

gorgeous blossoms, which seemed to luxuriate in the intense

heat and sun-glare.

Returning to Stockton for a week, I had the opportunity

of witnessing a Fourth of July celebration. There was a great

procession of all the trades and professions, firemen, army

corps, volunteers, officials, etc., to the town hall. A schoolboy read the Declaration of Independence, and then the

"Oration " was delivered. It was pretty good in substance,

but declaimed with outrageous vehemence and gesture. Then

a patriotic poem was recited by a lady, but two crying infants

and exploding crackers outside much interfered with the effect.

All the rest of the day there were crackers all over the town,

and in the evening another procession of animals, clowns, etc.,

crowds of people, carriages and buggies, crackers and fireworks-a kind of small and rough carnival. This over, I

bade farewell to my brother and sister-in-law, my nephews

and nieces, my grand-nephew and grand-niece, and left for

the summit level of the Sierra Nevada on my way across the

continent to Quebec, whence I was to sail for Liverpool.

CHAPTER XXXII
LECTURING TOUR IN AMERICA-CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
As my only lecture engagement on my way home was at
the Michigan Agricultural College on July 29, I proposed
to spend a fortnight among the alpine flowers of the Sierra
Nevada and the Rocky Mountains; and as on my way to
San Francisco I had passed over the Sierra in the night, I
left Stockton at 7 a.m. in order to proceed by a local midday train from Sacramento to the summit level, where there
is a small, rough hotel, chiefly used by the men engaged in
the repair of the railway.
I had three hours to wait at Sacramento, the State capital,
a pleasant town, with abundance of trees and gardens in the
suburbs. I bought here a very handy two-foot rule, which
folded up into a length of four inches, being thus most convenient for the pocket. It was also very usefully divided in
a variety of ways. The outer side of one face was divided
into eighths of an inch, and the inner side into tenths. The
other face was divided into sixteenths and twelths of an inch,
while the outer edge was divided into tenths and hundredths
of a foot. It was well made, would go into my waistcoat
pocket, and has been very useful to me ever since. I have
never seen one like it in any English tool-shop, and though it
was rather dear (three shillings), it has served as a pleasant and
useful memento of my American tour.
Leaving Sacramento at noon, we reached the foothills in
about two hours, and soon began to see the effects of hydraulic
mining in a fine valley reduced to a waste of sand, gravel, and
rock heaps, the fertile surface soil broken up and buried under
171

172
MY LIFE
tCHAP.
masses of barren and unsightly refuse, which may in time
become covered with trees, but will probably never be profitably cultivable. Having passed this, at one spot I saw a group
of tall golden yellow lilies, which blazed out grandly as the
train passed them. When we had reached a height of fortyfive hundred feet snow-sheds began, short ones at first, and
at considerable intervals, but afterwards longer and closer
together, and for the last fourteen miles below the summit
they were almost continuous. They are formed of massive
roughly-hewn or sawed logs completely enclosing the line,
but with so many crevices as to let in a good deal of light;
but the snow soon stops these up, and in the winter they are
as dark as a bricked tunnel.
Before entering them we had fine views, looking backward,
down deep valleys and lateral ravines, among the slopes and
ridges of which the line wound its way at a nearly uniform
incline in order to avoid tunnelling. Everywhere within sight
the country had been denuded of its original growth of large
timber, but there were abundance of young trees of the sugarpine, white pine, Douglas and silver firs, and a few cedars,
which, if allowed to grow, will again clothe these mountains
with grandeur and beauty for a future generation. The
visible rocks were either granite or talcose slaty beds and
decomposing gneiss. There were also considerable tracts of
white volcanic clay or ash, in which the gold-miners work,
and the layers of large round pebbles here and there showed
where ancient river channels had been cut across by the
existing streams.
We reached the summit (seven thousand feet above the
sea) at 6.I3 in a large snow-shed opening into the railroad
warehouses and workshops, and into the hotel. After dinner
I strolled out to a small marshy lake in a hollow, and
found a fine subalpine vegetation with abundance of flowers,
promising me a great treat in its examination. The country
immediately around consists of bare granite hills and knolls,
with little lakes in the hollows. Just beyond the hotel there
is a short tunnel which brings the railway out to the western
slope of the Sierra, whence it winds round the southern shore

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
I7 3
of Donner Lake on a continuous descent to Truckee and the
great Nevada silver-mines. The granite rocks in the pass
are everywhere ground smooth by ice into great bosses and
slopes, in the fissures of which nestle many curious little
alpine plants.
I stayed here four days, taking walks in different directions, ascending some of the nearest mountains, exploring
little hidden valleys, and everywhere finding flowers quite
new to me, and of very great interest. The pentstemons
were of great beauty, especially one which grew in fissures
of the granite rocks, with clusters of sky-blue flowers and
yellow buds, forming a most striking combination. The
curious and beautiful Pedicularis greenlandica was common
in bogs, with tall spikes of purple-red flowers, having long,
strangely curved beaks, giving the appearance of some
fantastic orchid. The genus Gilia was abundant in various
curious modifications, one species (G.pungens) being like a
minute furze-bush. On some of the hillsides there were
sheets of the pretty butterfly-tulip (Calochortus Nuttallii),
and in moister places the blue Camassia esculenta, the very
dwarf Bryantzus Breweri like a miniature rhododendron,
the pretty starlike dodecatheons, the brilliant castillejas,
and a host of others. Eriogonums, allied to our polygonums, were abundant and varied, and there were many
curious composites and elegant little ferns in the rockcrevices. One of the higher mountains was of volcanic
rock, and having once seen their characteristic forms, it was
evident that most of them were of this formation, being the
sources of the great extent of Pliocene lava-streams and ashbeds which cover so much of the country in California,
Nevada, and Idaho. The older rock here is a kind of gneiss,
full of fragments of other rocks, both crystalline and volcanic,
producing a result similar to the rocks I found in the granitic
region of the Upper Rio Negro, and which I have figured in
my "Amazon and Rio Negro" (p. 423, cheap ed. p. 293).
The smooth, rounded forms of the rocks here are plainly due
to glaciation, and have quite a different character to the
globular or dome-form at the Yosemite and in Brazil, due to

174
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
sub-aerial decomposition and exfoliation. Here they show
the remains of what were rugged or jagged peaks worn down
smooth into rounded hummocks of very varied forms.
Striation is sometimes faintly visible, but under the intense
climatic changes of this region, weathering has in most cases
quite obliterated it.
Having read Miss Bird's account of Lake Tahoe as being
superbly beautiful, I determined to see it, and if the country
looked promising to stay a few days. I accordingly left by
the train on Monday morning, stayed the night at a very
poor hotel at Truckee, and took the stage at seven the next
morning for the lake, a distance of fourteen miles. The road
was up a very picturesque, winding valley, very precipitous
and rocky on the east side, more sloping on the west. The
bottom of the valley seemed to be granite or gneiss, but the
craggy heights on the east side were all of lava, sometimes
scoriaceous, sometimes almost columnar basalt, and occasionally laminated. Sometimes there were precipices, peaks, and
detached pillars of scoriaceous lava, two hundred to five hundred
feet high, of strange forms and highly picturesque. This valley
had a rapid stream, which was the outlet of the lake. It had
once probably been full of lava and ashes, when the lake
would have been much deeper and larger. This was indicated by stratified deposits in places at different levels,
and by layers of rock full of rounded pebbles. The lake
itself, though a fine piece of water, did not come up to
my expectations. The mountains around were bare and
monotonous, rather higher and snow-flecked on the west, but
the highest peaks visible not more than ten thousand feet.
On the west side there was most wood, but the mountains
were not more than two thousand to four thousand feet above
the lake, and therefore not high in proportion to its size,
which is thirty-five miles long and fifteen miles wide. It is
really less striking than Loch Lomond or Windermere, where
the mountains are more picturesque and more precipitous;
while it can bear no comparison with the sub-alpine Swiss
and Italian lakes.
I strolled about the shores of the lake, and into some of

XXXII1
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
I75
the woods near, but all was very dusty and arid, and I found
only a few flowers already familiar to me. The hotel looked
clean and comfortable, and I had a very good dinner there,
and in the afternoon sat in the verandah admiring the view
over the lake, it being too hot and dry to go out. I was glad
I had seen it, and especially the valley up to it, but I preferred to get on to the Rockies as soon as possible. I therefore went back to Truckee by the return of the stage in
the afternoon, and went on to Reno by the evening train.
While waiting at the station, two ladies addressed me, and
said they had met me last autumn at the meeting of the
American Association at Boston. They were both botanists,
and had been camping out in the Californian mountains; so
we compared notes, and had some interesting botanical conversation. Their names were Miss J. W. Williams and Miss
Sarah W. Horton, of Oakland, California.
The line from Truckee to Verdi (twenty-four miles) passes
through a very interesting series of gorges in the volcanic
district. The rocks and precipices exhibit all the varied
characteristics of basalt, lava, and volcanic ash, with frequent
intercalated layers of gravel, and glacial drifts. The lateral
gorges give frequent peeps into the interior, with strange
castellated cliffs and pinnacles. Sometimes the main gorge
narrows, leaving barely room for the railway, with the river
foaming against the black, rugged, precipice. The whole country from Gold Run, in California, to Verdi, in Nevada (eighty
miles), is a region of extinct (Pliocene?) volcanoes, but at
and near the summit these rocks have been denuded down
to the gneiss and granite, which there exhibits the grinding
power of ice as in the mountains of Europe. In this region
we have the results of fire, water, and ice action well illustrating their respective shares in modelling the earth's surface.
The long and deep valley of the Truckee has probably been
entirely excavated through volcanic rocks since a quite
recent geological period.
Leaving Reno the next morning, we passed through
similar volcanic country, for about fifty miles, in the Truckee
valley; then across an arid plateau to the valley of the

176
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Humboldt river, only reaching stratified rocks at the Humboldt mountains, towards the source of the river, in the
evening; and the next morning found ourselves near Ogden,
where I changed for the Denver and Rio Grande Railway, in
order to see a different portion of the mountains, two hundred
miles further south, and to visit Colorado Springs and the
celebrated Garden of the Gods.
I left Ogden at Io a.m. July I4, passing Salt Lake City,
about fifty miles beyond which, near Provo, we entered a
fine gorge of the Wasatch Mountains, leading to an upland
valley with abundant vegetation. The cliffs were of a red
conglomerate with pebbles, and among the flowers I noticed
Cleome integrifolia, yellow cenotheras, handsome thistles, a
fine golden-rod, and red castillejas. When the train stopped
at small stations, for water or other causes, I would jump out
and gather any flowers I saw near me, keeping a sharp watch
for the conductor's cry of "All aboard!" Having with me
Coulter's "Flora of the Rocky Mountains," I was able to
make out many of the species. Climbing up a high, open
valley, we reached Soldier Summit, where there was half a
mile of snow-sheds. This was the divide between the Salt
Lake and the Colorado basins, and we then entered Pleasant
Valley, and winding about came to the picturesque Castle
Gate, where a mass of rock like the ruins of a mediaeval
castle rises close to the line. Passing this, we entered an
almost desert region, with great bare flats of mud and clay,
with occasional low ridges of gravel. During the night in this
district we were stopped by a " wash out; " a few hours' deluge
of rain having fallen, turned dry channels into roaring torrents, and destroyed the track for some yards in several
places. These were rapidly repaired by building up the line
with sleepers laid across and across to the required level, and
at eight o'clock we went on again; but were again stopped
early in the afternoon. Here I strolled about, but it was a
miserable desert, with only a few stunted, ugly spiny bushes.
Some of the cliffs around were splendid, in strata of red,
yellow, bluish, and green. This district is between the Green
and the Gunnison rivers, the latter a very turbid stream.

I
~
ON THE DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILWAY.
[Toface A. 176, VOL. II.

OF -
<2$!

XXXII]

CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC

177

Here were a few patches of cultivated land and little rude

cabins.

Entering Clear Creek valley, the country becomes

smoother, the hills more rounded and more clothed with

vegetation, like parts of Wales or Scotland, with some pines and

cedars. The occasional bare slopes show a covering of earth

and boulders, washed from above by the melting of the

winter snows. Here we wound in and out among the

mountains up to the heads of all the lateral valleys, then

returning on the other side so as to see the line we had come

by many hundreds of feet below us. Several short snowsheds were passed through before reaching the summit

between two branches of the Gunnison river, just short of

eight thousand feet above the sea. On the east side we again

wound about, in and out of valleys, sometimes round such

sharp curves that the train made almost a semicircle, till in

the evening we reached Cimarron, where we stopped the night,

as there is a fine gorge of the Upper Gunnison river through

which the line passes.

Starting at 9 a.m. on July I6, we at once entered the

gorge, and for fifteen miles had a succession of very fine

scenery, the gneissic rocks forming grand precipices, sometimes

overhanging, or in picturesque forms with towers and pinnacles, at others widening into little basins with fine peeps of

mountain summits. Pines and firs clung to the rocks, increasing the beauty of the scene. On emerging from the gorge, the

valley became wider with moderate slopes and table-topped

mountains. We reached Gunnison (7580 feet) at 11.io a.m.,

situated in a rather bare open plain, with rounded hills; then

entering an open upland valley with fine-looking meadows

full of flowers-a perfect garden speckled with pale and dark

yellow, pink, blue, and white flowers-the most flowery valley

I have seen during my American tour, and the only one that

equalled the finest of the European Alps. I could distinguish

great patches of dodecatheon, masses of lupins, and white

and pink gilias. Then we came to patches of pines and firs,

and reached Sargent, 8400 feet above the sea, and I should

think a fine station for a botanist at this time of the year.

VOL. II.                N

MY LIFE
tCHAP.
From here we entered a series of high branching valleys, up
and round which we wound to ascend to Marshall Pass, the
summit level of the main range of the Rocky Mountains, at an
elevation of Io,85o feet. Stopping a few minutes on the summit,
I saw many fine flowers, among which was a pentstemon with
blossoms of a very dark vinous purple. The descent into the
Upper Arkansas valley was very interesting from the way we
entered and wound round the head of every lateral valley to
gain distance for the descent at a practicable slope, so that in
one place we could see three lines of the railway, one below
the other, which we had just passed along. Salida, where we
stayed to dine, is in a flat valley near the sources of the
Arkansas river, and on leaving it we soon entered upon a
very fine narrow valley with lofty mountains of conical or
pyramidal forms, either smooth or jagged. Then we came to
a granite district, with tors of strange and fantastic forms,
with huge blocks, peaks, and balanced rocks, like hundreds
of Dartmoor tors crowded together. Then more open rocky
valleys before we reached the "Royal Gorge," where we
beheld towering rocks of fantastic form and colouring closing
in upon the river and hardly leaving room for the railway.
In places there were vertical precipices about a thousand feet
high, side canions like narrow slits, or winding majestic ravines,
often with vertical walls, or with quartz dykes running up
the precipitous valley sides, and always the river roaring and
raging in a tumultuous flood close alongside of us. It was a
fine example of the carnons of the Rocky Mountains, and of
the skill and enterprise required to build a railway through
such a country. But there are many other lines which
penetrate still wilder gorges, and which have overcome much
greater difficulties, and I greatly regret I could not afford the
time and cost of visiting these. As compared with Switzerland, the Rocky Mountains are very poor in snow-clad peaks
and high alpine scenery, but are quite equal, and perhaps
even superior, in the number, extent, and grandeur of its
cafions or deep valley-gorges.
On leaving this gorge the country became flat and

/C'
V Or,

&if
"T FHE SQUATTER,) CGARDIEN OF THE GODS, CO,.
[Tofacetf 179, VOL II.

xxxII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
I79
uninteresting, and we reached Colorado Springs (six thousand
feet above the sea) at half-past ten at night, having travelled
about six hundred miles, through the most varied, grand,
and interesting portion of the Rocky Mountain system. The
next morning, after breakfast, I went on by the branch
railway to Manitou Springs (6360 feet)-the "Soda Springs"
of the old-time trappers, mentioned in some of Mayne
Reid's inimitable stories. Here, where the mountains rise
abruptly from the great plains, which are themselves more
than six thousand feet above the sea, are a group of springs
situated near together on a small plateau, yet each of different
character and composition. The most interesting is the
"boiling spring" or "soda spring," which is so full of gas
that it looks as if boiling, but is really effervescing. It is as
clear as crystal, and tastes just like good a&rated water. The
springs are surrounded by several pretty hotels, and a small
number of shops, boarding-houses, and private residences. I
spent the morning walking up some of the curious little
valleys that open at once into the mountains, and found a
few interesting plants, among which was the Monardafistulosa,
of a very bright lilac pink colour, some campanulas, and a few
others. After dinner, it being too hot to walk, I hired a buggy
to drive me round the Garden of the Gods and Glen Eyrie, a
distance of about seven miles. This consists of a tract of un.
dulating or hummocky land backed by a range of cliffs, and
presenting scores and even hundreds of isolated rock masses
of varying heights, but generally about ten or twenty feet, and
worn by wind-action into the strangest forms, which have
received distinctive names. They are composed of sandstone
in nearly horizontal strata of varying hardness, whence has
resulted their curious shapes. Some are like pillars with
overhanging tops, but most of them, when seen from the right
point of view, are ludicrous representations of men or animals.
In one we see an old Irish peasant, in another a Scotchman
with plaid and glengarry cap, and one is named the Lady of
the Garden. There is a cobbler, a bear, a buffalo, a Punch
and Judy, and the Squatter;-the last is here reproduced
from a photograph.

I80
MY LIFE
tCHAP.
But even more remarkable than these are the wonderful
group of isolated rocks, forming what is called the gateway to
the garden. Here are two enormous walls or slabs of red
sandstone rising abruptly out of the smooth grassy surface to
a height of three hundred and fifty feet, and leaving about
the same distance between them, in the centre of which is a
smaller similar rock. Through this opening is seen the fine
rocky mass of Pike's Peak, snow-clad in spring and flecked with
snow in summer, contrasting with the rich red of the sandstone gateway and the flower-specked sward, so as to produce
a landscape which for singularity and beauty I have never seen
equalled. In nature, as in the view here reproduced, the
precipices forming the gateway have the appearance of rocky
hills pierced by a chasm, and it is only when one goes through
the gate and looks back, and then walks completely round
them, that one sees that they are mere vertical slabs of sandstone, quite comparable with those which form the fantastic
groups and pillars already described, but of much greater
dimensions. Looked at from another point of view, the
upper ridge is seen to be worn into strange shapes with openings and pinnacles, the central mass having excellent
representations of a seal and a bear, while on the left is seen
the figure of an Indian in his robes. From yet another point
the same masses, when seen edgeways, appear as a wonderful
group of lofty rock-pinnacles, which are appropriately named
the Cathedral Spires. Glen Eyrie, a little way further north,
is a small valley terminating in a narrow gorge full of isolated
columnar masses of various forms and overhanging; often
mushroom-like tops, as shown in the photograph, have quite
a distinct character, but have not the varied beauty of the
"Garden."
The next day (Monday, July I8) I went on to Denver,
and arranged with Miss Eastwood, whom I had met in May,
to go to Graymount, the nearest station to Gray's Peak, for a
few days' botanizing. Starting at eight the next morning, we
went up very picturesque valleys to the mining settlement of
Georgetown (eight thousand five hundred feet), and thence
on to Graymount, eight miles further, in which distance we

GATEWAY TO GARDEN OF THE GODS: WITH PIKE'S PEAK.
[To face p. 18, VOL. II.

(or]l

THE SEAL AND BEAR, GARDEN OF THE GODS.
[Tofacep. i80, VOL. II.

4>?
i OF I
1h 1,

I
" CATHEDRAL SPIRES," GARDEN OF THE GODS.
[ To facej. i 8o, Voi- I I.

It IV

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
ascended II70 feet. On the way we had recourse to a loop,
the line crossing the valley winding up its side, then crossing
back again by a lofty viaduct and thus overcoming the greatest
abrupt rise in the valley, making, in fact, an aerial instead of a
subterranean corkscrew as they so often do under similar circumtances in the Alps. At Graymount we found a tolerable
hotel, where we stayed a few days to explore. There were
two valleys from here, the most northerly and larger, called
Grizzly Gulch, penetrated further into the mountains to the
north of Gray's Peak; the smaller and steeper leading to a
small collection of miners' huts called Kelso's Cabin, and then
along a wide, upland valley just above timber-line up to the
very foot of Gray's Peak, whence a winding mule-track led
to its summit.
On the second day, when going up Grizzly Gulch, we
came to a miner's cabin, and two men we saw there asked us
to have dinner with them. They gave us some good soup,
pork, and peas, with hot coffee. They told us that a little
higher up there was a fine place for flowers, and that they
were going by there to their work. So we went with them,
and about a quarter of a mile up we came to some patches of
snow at the foot of a fine alpine, rocky slope, and all around
it was a complete flower-garden. We remained here some
hours to botanize, and gathered thirty-five species of alpine
plants in flower. Some, as 'Mertensia alpina, Parnassia
fimbriata, Phacelia sericea, and Primula angustifolia, were
among the gems of the Rocky Mountain flora. Others
were European, as Anemone narcissiflora, Ranunculus nivalis,
A stragalus alpina, and A ndrosace septentrionalis; while others,
again, were British, as Silene acaulis, Dryas octopetala, and the
rare Swertia perennis, which here dotted the grass with its
curious slaty-blue flowers. The scenery was just like many
a Swiss Alp, where snow-peaks were not in sight, and the
flowers, if not quite so brilliant or so numerous in species,
were especially charming to me from the curious mixture of
European and American species.
On our second visit to Kelso's Cabin we were overtaken
by Mr. Thomas West, an English mining engineer, in whose

i82
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
house in Grizzly Gulch we had dined the day before, and he
asked us to make use of his hut high up the valley, so as to
have plenty of time for our visit to Gray's Peak. We took
our lunch in a miner's hut, and I was greatly pleased with the
little chipmunks-a very small ground-squirrel-which came
round the door to pick up crumbs, and after a little time
entered the house and ate whatever we gave them without
any fear. The'miners are as fond of these little creatures as
we are of robins, and thus they become quite pets about
houses in the wilds where they abound. In the evening we
made our way to the cabin, said to be the highest house in
the States (about thirteen thousand feet), where it freezes at
night nearly all the year round. Some of Mr. West's men
had brought up stores, the house being used for prospecting
purposes and trial-workings. They made us quite welcome,
and we had supper together.
The next morning we walked up to the top of Gray's Peak
(14,340 feet), one of the highest in the Rocky Mountains. On
this side the ascent was very easy, over grassy slopes interspersed with streams of loose stone fragments, everywhere
dotted with interesting alpine plants. The summit was a
nearly level plateau, with precipices on the north- west, and with
a magnificent view all round, only limited by the yellow haze
which cuts off the horizon. We had, however, a view of the
celebrated Holy Cross mountain, about thirty-five miles to
the south-west, below the summit of which some deep gorges
preserve perpetual snow in the shape of a cross. Over an
area of about three hundred miles from north to south, and
two hundred from east to west, there are said to be over
thirty summits which reach fourteen thousand feet, and many
more above thirteen thousand-a clear indication of this
whole region having been once a nearly level plateau,
which, during the process of elevation, has been cut into
innumerable valleys and cafions by sub-aerial denudation.
This is the more remarkable, as the geological structure of
the region is very complex, consisting of ancient rocks, and
has 'probably once been covered by the Secondary and
Tertiary deposits which now everywhere surround it, as

xxxII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
I83
illustrated by the belt of Triassic sandstones of the Garden
of the Gods.
We luxuriated here in plants which were altogether new
to me. By the side of the road up were great clumps of the
common Silene acaulis, embedded in which were little tufts
of the exquisite blue Omphalodes nana, var. aretioides, closely
allied to a rare alpine species. In damp, shady spots was a
curious alpine form of columbine (Aquilegia brevistyla), while
minute saxifrages, potentillas, trifoliums, and many dwarf
composites starred the grassy slopes with beauty. In the
afternoon we crossed over a low pass and descended through
a precipitous forest into Grizzly Gulch, and then up to Mr.
West's house and laboratory, where he did a good deal of work
as an assayer of minerals for the numerous prospectors in the
district. In the boggy parts of the wood we found great
masses of the fine purple Primula Parryi.
We spent Sunday with Mr. West and his son, who were
working a mine here in partnership with several other men,
and these invited us to dine with them. After a morning
among the flowers on the way up, we reached the mine
tunnelled into the face of the mountain. After going in a
few feet the whole surface of the tunnel becomes a mass of
ice-crystals as white as snow, showing that the mean temperature of the earth at a few feet deep is below the freezingpoint. This continues for a distance of about five hundred
feet, when the increase of temperature with depth becomes
just sufficient to prevent freezing, and with every twenty or
thirty yards further an increase of warmth is felt. We dined
with about a dozen men in a large, rough cabin with sleepingbunks all round. Our table and benches were of rough
planks, but they were covered with a clean table-cloth, and
our hosts gave us a most excellent dinner of soup, stew,
fruit, and cheese, with very good coffee. In these camps they
always get a good cook.
In the afternoon we walked up the main gulch into a high,
upland valley, with Gray's Peak on our left. Here I found
Bryanthus empetriformis, a pretty dwarf, heath-like plant
new to the flora of Colorado. The grassy slopes here were

184
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
wonderfully flowery, with the beautiful Aquilegia ccarulea and
the scarlet Castillejas, and higher up was a little moraine lake
where Primula Parryi and Arnica cordifolia were abundant.
Some account of the relations of the American and European
alpine plants is given in my chapter on "Flowers and Forests
of the Far West," in my "Studies" (vol. i. p. 217).
The next morning, after gathering a few more choice
plants to send home to England, we bade farewell to our
kind friends the miners, walked down to Graymount and
took the train to Denver, noticing many fine plants on the
way, as well as the grand precipices of Clear Creek cafion,
where the strata are seen to have been "twisted and tortured
into indescribable forms," as I noted in my journal. In the
evening I had a visit from Mr. and Mrs. Eastwood, and the
next day, at 8.30 a.m., left Denver for Chicago. For some
time I had the sleeping-car, eighty feet long, all to myself,
there being three alternative lines to Chicago, all starting at
the same time. I was now going by the northernmost, so as
to see the prairie country along a new line, about two hundred
miles north of that by which I had come.
For some time after starting I had a fine view of the
range of the Rockies, Long's Peak, to the north-west, being
the most conspicuous object. At Julesberg, two hundred
miles from Denver, we stopped to allow the train for
California to pass us, and I took a short walk out on the
prairie. All around was a boundless expanse of slightly
undulating country, covered irregularly with short wiry grass,
with a few patches of weeds here and there, a purple and a
yellow cleome, and a dwarf entire-leaved golden rod. There
was also a yellow-flowered prickly solanum and a small whiteflowered asclepiad, with linear crowded leaves, like a mare's
tail. The soil was mainly gravel, composed of small crystalline
pebbles, not much rounded. The smallest of these, about the
size of very small peas, were gathered into many anthills
about a foot high. Coming near the North Platte river, the
fine blue Iris missouriensis was seen in the marshes. There
was good grass here, and plenty of cattle grazing. The river
was about a mile wide, but shallow and full of mud.banks.

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
The next morning (Wednesday, July 27) we were near
Omaha, in a flat but fertile and cultivated country of undulating prairie, with meadows, and even hedges! the haystacks, horses, and cattle near the farmhouses having a more
homely aspect than the usual half-desert waste of prairie.
After crossing the Missouri, and leaving Council Bluffs, the
country became more undulating, with fields of maize and
rather more flowers. Among these were yellow cenotheras
showy rudbeckias, orange marigolds, and the white euphorbia.
Further on, the country was almost all cultivated, wheat being
all cut, maize growing vigorously, grass all closely cropped
off, and no flowers. Every engine that has passed us has
poured out a column of smoke of intense blackness, the result
of bad coal, careless stoking, and total disregard of the
comfort of passengers. We passed the Mississippi about
midnight, and in the morning found ourselves near Chicago.
For miles before reaching it there are grass-grown streets
laid out in the bare open country, with a house here and
there-indications of a land "boom," such as are continually
got up by speculators.
Having six hours to wait for my train to Michigan, I took
a bus and some walks after breakfast to see the town. The
chief impression was of endless vistas of long parallel streets
ending in the lake-shore, the whole enveloped in a smoky
mist worthy of London itself. Like all new American cities,
there were great incongruities in the buildings, small twostorey wood houses next door to handsome shops or palatial
warehouses seven or eight stories high. This extreme irregularity is the more an eyesore from the contrast of wood and
granite, or other fine building stone; but, of course, this will
gradually disappear. The great lake, which might have given
the city a grandeur and dignity of its own, has been spoilt by
the railroad companies, for though there is a belt of park
and promenade, the shore-front itself is given up to eight
parallel lines of railways with ugly iron railings, and a notice
that the public will cross this at its own risk. There is here
a great area of black dust or mud, screeching engines pouring
out dense volumes of the blackest smoke, and at this time of

I86
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
year the grass is dried up, and the trees all blacker than in
London. The Dearborn Railway Station is a fine building,
but the restaurant attached to it is very poor-ragged tablecloths or bare tables, and a general air of shabbiness pervades it. I did not regret having no business to keep me in
Chicago.
Leaving at noon, I passed through a nearly level country
of prairie and wood, with luxuriant meadows near the streams
or burnt-up pastures, and reached Trowbridge Station at 5.30,
where I was met by Mr. Cook, with whom I was to stay.
We had supper, of tea, fruit, etc., and I afterwards tried their
stereopticon lantern, which was very poor. The next evening
(Friday) I gave my lecture on "Darwinism," and offered to give
that on " Colours of Animals " on Monday evening as a return
for their hospitality. The next morning Professor Beal took
me to a fine bit of original swamp forest, with features which
were quite new to me. Throughout my wanderings in the
Sierra and the Rockies I had never met with any sphagnum
moss, which I should often have been glad of to pack my
plants in. In this bit of forest, however, there were acres of
such sphagnum as I had never seen before, forming a continuous carpet more than a foot thick, and in this congenial
rooting medium there were numbers of very interesting plants.
American pitcher-plants (sarracenia) were abundant, but what
pleased me more were quantities of the elegant orchis
(Habenaria ciliaris), with curious fringed flowers, making quite
a sheet of yellow in places, its tubers not in the soil, but
embedded in the sphagnum a few inches below the surface.
There was also a curious little plant called gold-thread, allied
to the hellebore, and a number of ferns. Among the shrubs
were tall vacciniums, and the beautiful red-berried Nemnzo
panlhes canadensis, allied to the holly, but deciduous.
On Sunday I saw the botanical garden attached to the
college, the library, and the insect collections, which latter
were very fine as compared with our English species. Of
moths of the genus Catocala, instead of our four species there
were about twenty, many of them much larger and more
gorgeously coloured, while the Saturnias and other groups

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
187
were in equal proportion. After giving my lecture on
" Colour " in the evening, I had to hurry off to catch the
train, in which I slept, and reached Kingston the next day
early in the afternoon. Here I had been invited to spend a few
days in a delightful old country house on the shores of Lake
Ontario, in the refined and very congenial society of Mr. and
Mrs. Allen, and their two daughters. I much enjoyed this
visit, and my genuine admiration of the writings of their only
son, Grant Allen, was a bond of sympathy. The house is a
roomy old-world mansion, situated in a small park with grand
old trees, and fruit, flower, and kitchen garden sloping down
to the water. Mr. Alien himself worked at his flowers, and
had a magnificent collection of gladioli now in full bloom.
But what interested me even more was to see rows of vines
in the open ground laden with as fine fruit as we grow in a
vinery, though the winters are far longer and more severe
than ours. But the higher temperature due to the more
southern latitude, combined with a clearer atmosphere and
greater amount of sunshine, are far more favourable to
all fruit and flowers which are uninjured by low winter
temperatures.
One afternoon I went to visit a relative of the Allens at
Gananoque, where they have a small cottage on the rocky
bank of the St. Lawrence, looking on to the celebrated
Thousand Islands. There is an acre of wild ground, with
a little woody ravine bounded by granite rocks, where interesting wild plants are found. The next morning I was taken
among the nearer islands in a small yacht, landing on some
to collect ferns. They are all ice-ground, often mere bosses
rising a few feet above the water, some of the larger ones
having pretty villas and gardens on them. A description of
this place has been made the subject of one of Grant Allen's
bright magazine articles.
One evening Mr. Allen took me to tea at Sir Richard
Cartright's, one of the Canadian ministers, at his fine country
house in a spacious park, a few miles in the country. One of
the sons took me to a wood where trilliums were in flower;
afterwards we had tea in a spacious hall. There were several

I88
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
visitors, and the conversation was chiefly about Ireland.
Here, as elsewhere in America, our conduct in persistently
refusing self-government to Ireland is hardly intelligible,
and is almost universally condemned.
On Sunday morning, August 7, I took leave of my very
kind hosts, and went by a small steamer through the Thousand
Islands to Alexandria Bay on the American shore, and stayed
the night at the Thousand Islands Hotel. The trip of about
thirty-five miles was most interesting among the countless
islands, varying from mere granite rocks to others several
miles long. The hotel has a broad verandah out of the
dining-room on the first floor, affording a magnificent view
up the river, of varied and beautiful combinations of rock,
wood, and water hardly to be surpassed. After dinner at
3 p.m., I walked a few miles into the country, consisting of
cultivated fields alternating with rock-masses or ridges.
These were all rounded, furrowed, and smoothed by ice,
and on some of them, where hard quartzose sandstones
occurred, the striae, furrows, and deep scooping were perfectly
developed, all following the general direction of the St. Lawrence valley, whatever their shape or aspect. This is the most
conclusive indication of ice-action as opposed to other causes.
In the evening the scene from the hotel was charming. In
addition to the natural beauties of the surface, there were
many pretty or elegant villas on the larger islands, with fine
lawns and masses of bright flowers, while many pretty yachts
were sailing about or lying at anchor. American wealth
had here displayed itself to some advantage in a tract of
country of such a nature as hardly to admit of any serious
deterioration of its natural beauty.
The next morning at seven I went on by steamer to
Montreal, passing many picturesque islands, and with
occasional distant views of the Adirondacks. We also passed
down the whole series of rapids, not very remarkable as compared with those of the Rio Negro, except the two named
the " Coteau " and the "Lachine." These rush and boil, and
form waves as in a chopping sea, with occasional eddies
and whirls where the vessel had to pass between reefs and

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
189
rock-ledges, requiring good steering; but there is nowhere any
perceptiblefall of the water, and on the whole the scenery of
the St. Lawrence was somewhat monotonous. We passed
under a fine girder bridge and the great Victoria Tubular
Bridge before reaching Montreal, the appearance of which is
much spoilt by factory chimneys and the usual but quite
unnecessary pall of smoke. For all this unsightliness in
almost every city in the world, land monopoly and competition are responsible. If each city owned its own land, it
would be no one's interest to destroy its beauty and healthiness with smoke and impure water; and if every parish,
district, or county owned its own land, factories would only
be permitted away from centres of population, and would be
so regulated as to prevent all injury or even inconvenience to
those who worked in them.
I had been kindly invited by Mr. Iles, the manager of the
Windsor Hotel, to stay there a day or two as his guest. He
was a great admirer of Herbert Spencer, who had visited
him when in America, and through him I obtained a fine
photograph of our great philosopher, the very best I have
seen, both for likeness and expression. The next morning
he took me for a drive round the city, and up to the top
of Mount Royal, whence there is a magnificent view of the
sloping plain below, on which the city stands, with its
abundance of churches and of trees, which give it a characteristic aspect. It is curious to see all public notices in French
and English, even in this comparatively English part of
Canada. Mr. Iles is a literary man as well as a hotel
manager. He lent me an article of his on " Mathematics
and Evolution," in which he made use of the theory of permutations and combinations to illustrate Spencer's principle
of " multiplication of effects," applied especially to sociology
-an ingenious and well-written paper. He is also a student
of Emerson and Darwin, and he entertained Butler, the
author of " Erewhon," a few years before, and gave me a
copy of the inimitably humorous rhapsody on Montreal,
which I have quoted in Chapter XXVIII.
In the evening at 9.30 I went on board the steamer

I90o
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Vancouver for Liverpool, and we reached Quebec at 3.30 the
next afternoon. As the ship stayed here the night to coal, I
determined to sleep on shore and see this celebrated city.
Taking my bag in my hand, I walked to the town. On my
way I saw a gardener at work-an Irishman-and inquired
for a quiet place for a night's lodging. He directed me to a
small private hotel-the other hotels, he said, were too noisy
and too dear. Securing a room and leaving my bag, I
walked to Dyffryn Terrace, where is the monument to Wolfe
and Montcalm. Then up to the ramparts of the citadel, from
which there is a grand view of the river and the country
round, and where the strength of the position can be well
seen. For dinner they gave me beef-steak pie, quite English,
the first real homely pie I have met with on the American
continent. I then strolled into the town and bought a few
trifles in the shops. Everywhere they were talking French.
The terraces and gardens with electric lights were very
pretty.
Next morning I went out at 7 a.m., called on the Irish
gardener again, and asked the way to the best part of the
town. He offered to show me: went along St. Louis Street
and the Grande Allde by the new Parliamentary Buildings,
which are very large and handsome; a new Drill Hall,
fantastic Mooresque; then tot the open down and the Plains
of Abraham. The gardener said there were many Irish and
Scotch in Quebec, but more French than all the others. He
thought they could not become independent, because they
could not pay their share of the Canadian Debt. I suggested
that perhaps France would help pay it in order to get back
their old colony. Yes, he thought they might some day; but
he did not think the French people wanted that. He told
me he had been in Quebec forty-six years, and the winters
were not nearly so cold as they used to be. He is sure of it.
Noses and ears were often frozen and lost then; now one
never hears of such a thing.
I got back to breakfast soon after eight, and then
descended to the lower town by the elevator, and to the
wharf, where a tender took us on board in a drizzling rain

XXXIIJ
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
I91
and very cold wind; and at IO a.m. we started down the St.
Lawrence. Fortunately, I had a cabin to myself, as I was
very unwell during the whole voyage, with chest oppression,
and asthma for the first time in my life.
Having now left North America, I may say just a few
words of my general impressions as to the country and the
people. In my journal I find this note: " During more than
ten months in America, taking every opportunity of exploring
woods and forests, plains and mountains, deserts and gardens,
between the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, and extending over
ten degrees of latitude, I never once saw either a hummingbird or a rattlesnake, or even any living snake of any kind.
In many places I was told that humming-birds were usually
common in their gardens, but they hadn't seen any this year!
This was my luck. And as to the rattlesnakes, I was always
on the look out in likely places, and there are plenty still,
but they are local. I was told of a considerable tract of land
not far from Niagara which is so infested with them that it is
absolutely useless. The reason is that it is very rocky, with
so many large masses lying about overgrown with shrubs and
briars as to afford them unlimited hiding-places, and the
labour of thoroughly clearing it would be more costly than
the land would be worth."
The general impression left upon my mind as to the
country itself is the almost total absence of that simple
rural beauty which has resulted, in our own country and in
some other parts of Europe, from the very gradual occupation of the land as it was required to supply food for the
inhabitants, together with our mild winters allowing of continuous cultivation, and the use in building of local materials
adapted to the purposes required by handwork, instead of
those fashioned by machinery. This slow development of
agriculture and of settlement has produced almost every
feature which renders our country picturesque or beautiful:
the narrow winding lanes, following the contours of the
ground; the ever-varying size of the enclosures, and their
naturally curved boundaries; the ditch and bank and the

192
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
surmounting hedgerow, with its rows of elm, ash, or oak,
giving variety and sylvan beauty to the surroundings of
almost every village or hamlet, most of which go back to
Saxon times; the farms or cottages built of brick, or stone,
or clay, or of rude but strong oak framework filled in with
clay or lath and roughcast, and with thatched or tiled roofs,
varying according to the natural conditions, and in all showing the slight curves and irregularities due to the materials
used and the hand of theworker;-the whole, worn and coloured
by age and surrounded by nature's grandest adornment of
self-sown trees in hedgerow or pasture, combine together to
produce that charming and indescribable effect we term
picturesque. And when we add to these the numerous footpaths which enable us to escape the dust of high-roads and
to enjoy the glory of wild flowers which the innumerable
hedgerows and moist ditches have preserved for us, the
breezy downs, the gorse-clad commons and the heath-clad
moors still unenclosed, we are, in some favoured districts at
least, still able thoroughly to enjoy all the varied aspects of
beauty which our country affords us, but which are, alas!
under the combined influences of capitalism and landlordism,
fast disappearing.
But in America, except in a few parts of the north-eastern
States, none of these favourable conditions have prevailed.
Over by far the greater part of the country there has been
no natural development of lanes and tracks and roads as
they were needed for communication between villages and
towns that had grown up in places best adapted for early
settlement; but the whole country has been marked out into
sections and quarter-sections (of a mile, and a quarter of a
mile square), with a right of way of a certain width along
each section-line to give access to every quarter-section of
one hundred and sixty acres, to one of which, under the homestead law, every citizen had, or was supposed to have, a right
of cultivation and possession. Hence, in all the newer States
there are no roads or paths whatever beyond the limits of the
townships, and the only lines of communication for foot or
horsemen or vehicles of any kind are along these rectangular

XXXII]

CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC

I93

section-lines, often going up and down hill, over bog or

stream, and almost always compelling the traveller to go a

much greater distance than the form of the surface rendered

necessary.

Then again, owing to the necessity for rapidly and securely

fencing in these quarter-sections, and to the fact that the

greater part of the States first settled were largely forest-clad,

it became the custom to build rough, strong fences of splittrees, which utilized the timber as it was cut and involved

no expenditure of cash by the settler. Again, to avoid the

labour of putting posts in the ground the fence was at first

usually built of rails or logs laid zigzag on each other to the

height required, so as to be self-supporting, the upper pairs

only being fastened together by a spike through them, the

waste of material in such a fence being compensated by the

reduction of the labour, since the timber itself was often

looked upon as a nuisance to be got rid of before cultivation

was possible. And yet again, this fact of timber being in the

way of cultivation and of no use till cut down, led to the very

general clearing away of all the trees from about the house,

so that it is a comparatively rare thing, except in the eastern

towns and villages, to find any old trees that have been left

standing for shade or for beauty.

For these and for similar causes acting through the

greater part of North America, there results a monotonous

and unnatural ruggedness, a want of harmony between man

and nature, the absence of all those softening effects of

human labour and human occupation carried on for generation after generation in the same simple way, and in its slow

and gradual utilization of natural forces allowing the renovating agency of vegetable and animal life to conceal all harshness of colour or form, and clothe the whole landscape in a

garment of perennial beauty.

Over the larger part of America everything is raw and

bare and ugly, with the same kind of ugliness with which we

also are defacing our land and destroying its rural beauty.

The ugliness of new rows of cottages built to let to the poor,

the ugliness of the mean streets of our towns, the ugliness of

VOL. II.              0

194
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
our "black countries" and our polluted streams. Both
countries are creating ugliness, both are destroying beauty;
but in America it is done on a larger scale and with a more
hideous monotony. The more refined among the Americans
see this themselves as clearly as we see it. One of them has
said, " A whole huge continent has been so touched by human
hands that, over a large part of its surface it has been reduced
to a state of unkempt, sordid ugliness; and it can be brought
back into a state of beauty only by further touches of the
same hands more intelligently applied." 1
Turning now from the land to the people, what can we
say of our American cousins as a race and as a nation?
The great thing to keep in mind is, that they are, largely
and primarily, of the same blood and of the same nature
as ourselves, with characters and habits formed in part by
the evil traditions inherited from us, in part by the influence
of the new environment to which they have been exposed.
Just as we owe our good and bad qualities to the intermixture and struggle of somewhat dissimilar peoples, so
do they. Briton and Roman, Saxon and Dane, Norsemen
and Norman-French, Scotch and Irish Celts-all have intermingled in various proportions, and helped to create that
energetic amalgam known the world over as Englishmen.
So North America has been largely settled by the English,
partly by Dutch, French, and Spanish, whose territories were
soon absorbed by conquest or purchase; while, during the
last century, a continuous stream of immigrants-Germans,
Irish, Highland and Lowland Scotch, Scandinavians, Italians,
Russians-has flowed in, and is slowly but surely becoming
amalgamated into one great Anglo-American people.
Most of the evil influences under which the United States
have grown to their present condition of leaders in civilization,
and a great power among the nations of the world, they
received from us. We gave them the example of religious
intolerance and priestly rule, which they have now happily
thrown off more completely than we have done. We gave
I The Century, June, 1887.

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
I95
them slavery, both white and black-a curse from the effects
of which they still suffer, and out of which a wholly satisfactory escape seems as remote as ever. But even more
insidious and more widespread in its evil results than both of
these, we gave them our bad and iniquitous feudal land system;
first by enormous grants from the Crown to individuals or to
companies, but also-what has produced even worse effectsthe ingrained belief that land-the first essential of life, the
source of all things necessary or useful to mankind, by labour
upon which all wealth arises-may yet, justly and equitably,
be owned by individuals, be monopolized by capitalists or by
companies, leaving the great bulk of the people as absolutely
dependent on these monopolists for permission to work and
to live as ever were the negro slaves of the south before
emancipation.
The result of acting upon this false conception is, that the
Government has already parted with the whole of the accessible and cultivable land, and though large areas still remain
for any citizen who will settle upon it by the mere payment of
very moderate fees, this privilege is absolutely worthless to
those who most want it-the very poor. And throughout the
western half of the Union one sees everywhere the strange
anomaly of building lots in small remote towns, surrounded
by thousands of uncultivated acres (and perhaps ten years
before sold for eight or ten shillings an acre), now selling at
the rate of from LIooo to C20,oo000 an acre! It is not an
uncommon thing for town lots in new places to double their
value in a month, while a fourfold increase in a year is quite
common. Hence land speculation has become a vast organized
business over all the Western States, and is considered to be
a proper and natural mode of getting rich. It is what the
Stock Exchange is to the great cities. And this wealth, thus
gained by individuals, initiates that process which culminates
in railroad and mining kings, in oil and beef trusts, and in the
thousand millionaires and multi-millionaires whose vast accumulated incomes are, every penny of them, paid by the toiling workers, including the five million of farmers whose lives
of constant toil only result for the most part in a bare

I96
MY LIFE
[CHAP,.
livelihood, while the railroad magnates and corn speculators
absorb the larger portion of the produce of their labour.
What a terrible object-lesson is this as to the fundamental
wrong in modern societies which leads to such a result! Here
is a country more than twenty-five times the area of the
British Islands, with a vast extent of fertile soil, grand
navigable waterways, enormous forests, a superabounding
wealth of minerals-everything necessary for the support
of a population twenty-five times that of ours-about fifteen
hundred millions-which has yet, in little more than a century,
destroyed nearly all its forests, is rapidly exhausting its
marvellous stores of natural oil and gas, as well as those
of the precious metals; and as the result of all this reckless
exploiting of nature's accumulated treasures has brought about
overcrowded cities reeking with disease and vice, and a population which, though only one-half greater than our own, exhibits all the pitiable phenomena of women and children
working long hours in factories and workshops, garrets and
cellars, for a wage which will not give them the essentials of
mere healthy animal existence; while about the same proportion of its workers, as with us, endure lives of excessive
labour for a bare livelihood, or constitute that crying disgrace
of modern civilization-willing men seeking in vain for
honest work, and forming a great army of the unemployed.
What a demonstration is this of the utter folly and
stupidity of those blind leaders of the blind who impute
all the evils of our social system, all our poverty and starvation, to over-population! Ireland, with half the population
of fifty years ago, is still poor to the verge of famine, and is
therefore still overpeopled. And for England and Scotland
as well, the cry is still, "Emigrate! emigrate I We are overpeopled! " But what of America, with twenty-five times as
much land as we have, with even greater natural resources,
and with a population even more ingenious, more energetic,
and more hard-working than ours? Are they over-populated
with only twenty people to the square mile? There is
only one rational solution of this terrible problem. The
system that allows the land and the minerals, the means

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
197
of communication, and all other public services, to be
monopolized for the aggrandisement of the few-for the
creation of millionaires-necessarily leads to the poverty, the
degradation, the misery of the many.
There never has been, in the whole history of the human
race, a people with such grand opportunities for establishing
a society and a nation in which the products of the general
labour should be so distributed as to produce general wellbeing. It wanted but a recognition of the fundamental
principle of "equality of opportunity," tacitly implied in the
Declaration of Independence. It wanted but such social
arrangements as would ensure to every child the best nurture,
the best training of all its faculties, and the fullest opportunity
for utilizing those faculties for its own happiness and for the
common benefit. Not only equality before the law, but
equality of opportunity, is the great fundamental principle
of social justice. This is the teaching of Herbert Spencer,
but he did not carry it out to its logical consequence-the
inequity, and therefore the social immorality of wealthinheritance. To secure equality of opportunity there must
be no inequality of initial wealth. To allow one child to be
born a millionaire and another a pauper is a crime against
humanity, and, for those who believe in a deity, a crime
against God.1
It is universally admitted that very great individual
wealth, whether inherited or acquired, is beneficial neither to
the individual nor to society. In the former case it is
injurious, and often morally ruinous to the possessor; in the
latter it confers little or no happiness to the acquirer of it,
and is a positive injury to his heirs and a danger to the
State. Yet its fascinations are so great that, under conditions of society in which the yawning gulf of poverty is
ever open beside us, the amassing of wealth at first seems a
duty, then becomes a habit, and, ultimately, the gambler's
excitement without which he cannot live. The struggle for
wealth and power is always exciting, and to many is
irresistible. But it is essentially a degrading struggle, because
1 I have discussed this subject in my <" Studies," vol. ii. chap. xxviii.

I98
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
the few only can succeed while the many must fail;'and
where all are doing their best in their several ways, with their
special capacities and their unequal opportunities, the result
is very much of a lottery, and there is usually no real merit,
no specially high intellectual or moral quality in those that
succeed.
It is the misfortune of the Americans that they had such
a vast continent to occupy. Had it ended at the line of the
Mississippi, agricultural development might have gone on
more slowly and naturally, from east to west, as increase of
population required. So again, if they had had another
century for development before railways were invented,
expansion would necessarily have gone on more slowly, the
need for good roads would have shown that the rectangular
system of dividing up new lands was a mistake, and some of
that charm of rural scenery which we possess would probably
have arisen.
But with the conditions that actually existed we can
hardly wonder at the result. A nation formed by emigrants
from several of the most energetic and intellectual nations
of the old world, for the most part driven from their homes
by religious persecution or political oppression, including
from the very first all ranks and conditions of life-farmers
and mechanics, traders and manufacturers, students and
teachers, rich and poor-the very circumstances which drove
them to emigrate led to a natural selection of the most
energetic, the most independent, in many respects the best
of their several nations. Such a people, further tried and
hardened by two centuries of struggle against the forces
of'nature and a savage population, and finally by a war of
emancipation from the tyranny of the mother country, would
almost necessarily develop both the virtues, the prejudices,
and even the vices of the parent stock in an exceptionally
high degree. Hence, when the march of invention and
of science (to which they contributed their share) gave
them the steamship and the railroad; when California gave
them gold and Nevada silver, with the prospect of wealth to
the lucky beyond the dreams of avarice; when the great

XXXII]
CALIFORNIA TO QUEBEC
I99
prairies of the West gave them illimitable acres of marvellously fertile soil;-it is not surprising that these conditions
with such a people should have resulted in that mad race
for wealth in which they have beaten the record, and have
produced a greater number of multi-millionaires than all the
rest of the world combined, with the disastrous results already
briefly indicated.
But this is only one side of the American character.
Everywhere there are indications of a deep love of nature, a
devotion to science and to literature fully proportionate to
that of the older countries; while in inventiveness and in the
applications of science to human needs they have long been
in the first rank. But what is more important, there is also
rapidly developing among them a full recognition of the
failings of our common social system, and a determination
to remedy it. As in Germany, in France, and in England,
the socialists are becoming a power in America. They
already influence public opinion, and will soon influence the
legislatures. The glaring fact is now being widely recognized that with them, as with all the old nations of Europe,
an increase in wealth and in command over the powers of
nature such as the world has never before seen, has not added
to the true well-being of any part of society. It is also
indisputable that, as regards the enormous masses of the
labouring and industrial population, it has greatly increased
the numbers of those whose lives are "below the margin of
poverty," while, as John Stuart Mill declared many years
ago, it has not reduced the labour of any human being.
An American (Mr. Bellamy) gave us the books that first
opened the eyes of great numbers of educated readers to the
practicability, the simplicity, and the beauty of Socialism. It
is to America that the world looks to lead the way towards a
just and peaceful modification of the social organism, based
upon a recognition of the principle of Equality of Opportunity, and by means of the Organization of the Labour of
all for the Equal Good of all.

CHAPTER XXXIII
LITERARY WORK, ETC., 1887-1905
LEAVING Quebec early in the morning of Friday, August I2,
after a week of cold and dull weather, we anchored at 6 a.m.
on the I7th off Portrush, on the north coast of Ireland, to
leave mails and passengers for Londonderry. Here and all
along this coast I gazed upon the intensely vivid green of the
grassy slopes, and for the first time understood the appropriateness of "Emerald Isle " as a name for Ireland; for the
colour is altogether unique, and such as I have never seen
elsewhere. Two hours later we passed the grand range of
basaltic cliffs above the Giant's Causeway, and here, too,
all the grassy patches and slopes were of the same vivid tint.
Then the Mull of Cantire, in Scotland, came into view, and
later Port Patrick and the Mull of Galloway, just catching
sight of Ailsa Craig between them. In the afternoon we
passed south of the Isle of Man, and reached Liverpool late
at night, having thus seen a portion of the British Isles that
was quite new to me. Between 6 and 10 a.m. I managed
to get all my baggage through the Custom House and taken
to the station, had a good breakfast at the hotel, and was off
by the 11.5 a.m. express to London, then to Waterloo, and
home to Godalming at 5.30.
On my way from Godalming old station to Frith Hill in
a fly, an extraordinary event happened. Suddenly I perceived that the driver's coat was on fire behind-actually in
flames! I called out to him. He looked round, beat it with
his hands, said, "All right, sir!" and went on. After a few
minutes it began smoking again. I called out louder, it
200

[CHAP. XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905 201
flamed again; both overcoat, trousers, and cushion were
burning. Then he got down, took off his overcoat, trampled
on it, and beat out the rest. We went on. A third time it
burst out in smoke and flame. Again I shouted, and passersby called out and stopped to look. And then at last, with
their help, he finally extinguished the conflagration. A cabman on fire! No more curious incident occurred during my
six thousand miles of travel in America. It originated, no
doubt, from his having put a lighted pipe in his pocket, or
perhaps from a loose phosphorous match. But he did not
seem to mind it much, even when in a blaze.
The rest of the year 1887 was occupied at home in overtaking my correspondence, looking after my garden, and
making up for lost time in scientific and literary reading, and
in considering what work I should next occupy myself with.
Many of my correspondents, as well as persons I met in
America, told me that they could not understand Darwin's
" Origin of Species," but they did understand my lecture on
" Darwinism;" and it therefore occurred to me that a popular
exposition of the subject might be useful, not only as enabling the general reader to understand Darwin, but also
to serve as an answer to the many articles and books professing to disprove the theory of natural selection. During
the whole of the year i888 I was engaged in writing this
book, which, though largely following the lines of Darwin's
work, contained a great many new features, and dwelt
especially with those parts of the subject which had been
most generally misunderstood.
The spring of I889 was occupied in passing it through the
press, and it was published in May, while a few corrections
were made for a second edition in the following October.
During this time, however, I gave several of my American
lectures in various parts of the country-at Newcastle and
Darlington in the spring of i888; in the autumn at
Altrincham and Darwen; and in I889 at Newcastle, York,
Darlington, and Liverpool.
In the autumn of this year the University of Oxford did

202
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
me the honour of giving me the honorary degree of D.C.L.,
which I went to receive in November, when I enjoyed the
hospitality of my friend Professor E. B. Poulton. The Latin
speech of the Public Orator on the occasion has been translated for me by my friend Mr. Comerford Casey, and I here
give a copy of the translation.
Addressing the Vice-Chancellor and Proctors of the
University of Oxford, the Public Orators spoke words to this
effect:" In that department of natural science which is concerned with the accurate study of animals and plants, be well
assured that no living man has laboured more diligently and
with happier results than Alfred Russel Wallace.
"For having wandered long in early life through the
forests of Brazil, and among those islands which lie beyond
the Golden Chersonese, and beneath a burning sun, he thought
out and explained with wonderful insight the law according to which (as learned men now believe) new species of
animals arise: namely, that a stronger and more vigorous
offspring is left behind by those individuals whom nature
has, in some way or other, best fitted to endure the vicissitudes of life. Thus, in the course of ages, scions are produced which differ more and more widely from the original
stock.
"When this law was discovered, almost simultaneously
by the distinguished naturalist, Charles Darwin, neither
begrudged to the other his meed of praise; and so highminded were they both that each was more desirous of
discovering new truths than of gaining credit for himself.
" I need not enumerate the many and learned works which
Alfred Russel Wallace has published, since the facts which I
have related give him sufficient claim to the honorary degree
of Doctor of Civil Law which this University is about to
confer upon him."
Finding my house at Godalming in an unsatisfactory
situation, with a view almost confined to the small garden, the

xxxIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905
203
south sun shut off by a house and by several oak trees, while
exposed to north and east winds, and wishing for a generally
milder climate, I spent some weeks in exploring the country
between Godalming and Portsmouth, and then westward to
Bournemouth and Poole. I had let my house from Lady
Day, and had moved temporarily into another, and therefore wished to decide quickly. We were directed by some
friends to Parkstone as a very pretty and sheltered place,
and here we found a small house to be let, which suited us
tolerably well, with the option of purchase at a moderate
price. The place attracted us because we saw abundance of
great bushes of the evergreen purple veronicas, which must
have been a dozen or twenty years old, and also large specimens of eucalyptus; while we were told that there had been
no skating there for twenty years. We accordingly took the
house, and purchased it in the following year; and by adding
later a new kitchen and bedroom, and enlarging the drawingroom, converted it from a cramped, though very pretty
cottage, into a convenient, though still small house. The
garden on the south side was in a hollow on the level of the
basement, while on the north it was from ten to thirty feet
higher, there being on the east a high bank, with oak trees
and pines, producing a very pretty effect. This bank, as well
as the lower part of the garden, was peat or peaty sand, and
as I knew this was good for rhododendrons and heaths, I
was much pleased to be able to grow these plants. I did
not then know, however, that this peaty soil was quite unsuited to a great many other plants, and only learnt this by
the long experience which every gardener has to go through.
During the eight years I had lived at Godalming, I had
greatly enjoyed my garden, and had grown, more or less
successfully, an immense number of hardy and half-hardy
plants in about half an acre of ground. The soil was of the
Lower Greensand formation, with a thin layer of leaf-mould,
the whole district having been originally woodland and copse.
On the whole this soil was the best for gardening purposes I
have ever had, being easy to work, and well suited to a great
variety of herbaceous plants and shrubs, and especially to

204
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
bulbs. Here, without any special trouble, I was able to grow
on a raised bank Iris susiana and I. durica for several years
in succession, and the lovely jalap plant, Exogonium purga,
grew most luxuriantly over a low trellis at the back of the
same bed. Here, too, I had the magnificent Eremurus
robustus on a raised bank, with Leonotis leonurus, and many
other tender shrubs in the borders. I received contributions
of uncommon plants from many friends, and ransacked all
the nurserymen's catalogues for rarities and curiosities, and I
find that I attempted the cultivation in this garden, or in a
very small greenhouse and verandah, of about fifteen hundred
species of plants, some of which, of course, never reached
flowering size, others survived only a few years; but the
delight of watching the growth of these, to me, new forms of
vegetable life, and seeing them flower even once or twice, was
so great that no trouble was spared to obtain it.
My gardening has always been to me pure enjoyment.
I have never made any experiments with my plants, never
attempted to study their minute structure or to write about
them; the mere seeing them grow, noting the infinite diversities of their forms and habits, their likes and dislikes, all
made the more interesting by the researches of Darwin,
Kerner, H. Muller, Grant Allen, Lubbock, and others, on the
uses of each infinitely varied detail of stem and leaf, of bract
and flower-all this was to me a delight in itself, and gave
me that general knowledge of the outward forms and inward
peculiarities of plants, and of the exquisite beauty and almost
infinite variety of the vegetable kingdom, which enabled me
better to appreciate the marvel and mystery of plant life,
whether in itself or in its complex relations to the higher
attributes of man.
When I came to Parkstone (in June, i889) I had a
smaller garden, but one which I thought would prove better
adapted to a variety of species which I had not hitherto
succeeded with. I thought my peat-bank facing the southwest might grow some of the beautiful Cape heaths which I
had always so greatly admired, so I obtained in the spring

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905
205
of I89o a dozen choice species, as well as a considerable
number of Sikhim rhododendrons (seedlings and young
plants) from different dealers. But although I protected
them with fern, ashes, etc., every heath was killed the first
winter, while most of the rhododendrons lived and have now
grown into large bushes, of which two or three have flowered
and others I still hope to see flower. That winter (I890-9I)
was the first of a series of five severe winters; while the first
of them for duration of hard frost and the last for extreme
low temperature were the worst known, at all events in the
south of England, for about sixty years. What I regretted
even more than the heaths was a fine young plant of the
celebrated blue Puya, a present from my kind friend Miss
North, who had raised it from seed she brought from Chile.
Not having had time to get well rooted in the soil it died,
like the heaths, the first winter, although when once well
established it will bear a considerable amount of frost.
I made a little pond here to grow water-lilies and
other aquatic plants, and here again I met with one of the
commonest difficulties of the amateur who grows more than
he can properly attend to, the presence of what are now
termed " dangerous plants." I got a small bit of the fine red
Swedish water-lily from Ware, and after the first year or
two it grew well and formed one of the greatest attractions
of my garden; but I also had at one side of the pond the fine
native plant, Ranunculus lingua, and this, if left alone, would
in a few years have monopolized the whole pond and
destroyed the more valuable plants. Another of these
rapid growers is the very pretty Villarsia nymphaloides, which
sends out runners in all directions, and so becomes a danger
to all less vigorous plants. The same thing happens with
alpine plants. Many, indeed most of them, are quite easy to
grow with a suitable position and soil, but they require constant protection against stronger-growing plants and weeds.
The amateur must therefore either make them his chief care
or else limit his rockery to small dimensions and grow only
a few of the best kinds. In stocking my garden at Parkstone
I received valuable contributions from many kind friends,

206
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
among whom were the late Miss Owen, Mr. H. J. Elwes,
Miss Jekyll, and Sir W. T. Thistelton Dyer of Kew, and
many others. Among the plants which I grew here with
some success were the fine blue, purple, and yellow Himalayan poppies, the curious Periploca greca, which produced
masses of its strange blossoms, the beautiful Akebia quinata
with its wire-coloured flowers, a very large Solanum crispus,
and the strange Chilian climber, Mutisia decurrens, which we
called the "glory dandelion," from its very large stellate
flowers of intense orange. Even Sir Thomas Hanbury, who
paid me a visit here, had not before seen this plant in flower.
An unusually clear blue hydrangea on a shady bank was
also one of the glories of my Parkstone garden.
As already stated, from my very schoolboy days and my
early youth orchids had a fascination for me, from the
strangeness of their growth and habits and their fantastic
and beautiful flowers. In the parts of the tropics I visited
they were comparatively few in number, while their limited
flowering period made the finding of any of the more showy
species in flower a rare event. It was only after my return
home that at flower shows, and especially at Mr. William
Bull's annual exhibition of orchids at Chelsea, I became
really acquainted with their inexhaustible variety, extreme
interest, and marvellous beauty. There was no exhibition in
London that was at once so enjoyable and satisfying as these
orchid shows, which I generally managed to visit every
year.
Being, as I thought, settled for life at Parkstone, I determined at last that I would try and grow some orchids myself,
and accordingly built a small house in three divisions so as to
get different temperatures, and for about four or five years
persevered in the attempt, with a great deal of labour and
enjoyment to myself, though with only a limited amount of
success. As I was always longing for new species, I did not
content myself with a few of the most showy and most easily
managed, but endeavoured to get examples of almost all the
chief forms. Some I bought at sales, a few from dealers, and
I had a nice lot of Jamaica orchids sent me by Mr. W.

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905
207
Fawcett, among which was the handsome Broughtonia sanguinea, which flowered for several years. I also received a
large case of fine Indian orchids from the Botanic Gardens
at Calcutta. At last I got together more than a hundred
species, most of which I had the pleasure of seeing flower
once, though many refused to do so a second time.
Owing to the entrance to the orchid house being on a
different floor from my study, the constant attention orchids
require in shading, ventilating, and keeping up a moist
atmosphere, involved such an amount of running up and
down stairs, or up and down steps or slopes in the garden,
that I found it seriously affected my health, as I was at that
time subject to palpitations and to attacks of asthma, which
were brought on by any sudden exertion. I was therefore
obliged to give up growing them, as I found it impossible to
keep them in a satisfactory condition. This was partly owing
to the position of my houses, which were exposed to an
almost constant wind or draught of air, which rendered it
quite impossible to keep up the continuously moist atmosphere
and uniform temperature which are essential conditions for
successful orchid-growing. One of my friends who began
growing orchids soon after I did, having a well-sheltered
position and better aspect, succeeded far better, although
he was able to give them much less attention and often did
not enter the house for days together, having a boy to
keep up the fire, shade from the sun, and moisten the floors
twice a day. It is a well-known fact that, even under the
same gardener, orchids will grow well in one house, while in
another, perhaps only twenty yards distant, it is almost
impossible to keep them in health.
It was in the early part of my residence at Parkstone that
I received a visit from the great French Geographer, Elis6e
Reclus, who had, I think, come to England to receive the
gold medal of the Royal Geographical Society. He was a
rather small and very delicate-looking man, highly intellectual,
but very quiet in speech and manner. I really did not know
that it was he with whose name I had been familiar for twenty

208
MY LIFE
[CHAP
years as the greatest of geographers, thinking it must have
been his father or elder brother; and I was surprised when,
on asking him, he said that it was himself. However, we did
not talk of geography during the afternoon we spent together,
but of Anarchism, of which he was one of the most convinced advocates, and I was very anxious to ascertain his
exact views, which I found were really not very different from
my own. We agreed that almost all social evils-all poverty,
misery, and crime-were the creation of governments and of
bad social systems; and that under a law of absolute justice,
involving equality of opportunity and the best training for
all, each local community would organize itself for mutual
aid, and no great central governments would be needed, except
as they grew up from the voluntary association of their parts
for general and national purposes.
On asking him if he thought force was needed to bring
about such a great reform, and if he approved of the killing
by bombs or otherwise of bad rulers, he replied, very quietly,
that in extreme cases, like that of Russia, he thought there
was no other way to force upon the rulers' notice the deter
mination of the people to be free from their tyrants; but
under representative governments it was not needed, and
was not justifiable. Few would think to look at this frail
man that he was not only in the very first rank among the
students and writers of the nineteenth century, but that he
had fought for his country against the foreign invader, as
well as against the despotism of enthroned officialdom which
succeeded it.
He has now passed away (1905), having completed one of
the greatest (if not the very greatest) literary works of the
past century. But he will also be remembered as a true and
noble lover of humanity-a firm believer in the goodness, the
dignity, and the perfectibility of man.
During the first half of my residence at Parkstone (I889 -96), I did not write any new books, having, as I thought, said
all that I had to say on the great subjects that chiefly
interested me; but I contributed a number of articles to

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-1905

209

reviews, wrote many notices of books, with letters to Nature

on various matters of scientific interest. A short account of

the more important of these will show that I was not altogether inactive as regards literary work.

In the spring of I890 I lectured at Sheffield and at Liverpool, and have since declined all invitations to lecture, partly

from disinclination and considerations of health, but also

because I believed that I could do more good with my pen

than with my voice. During the year I prepared a new

edition of my " Malay Archipelago," bringing the parts dealing with natural history up to date.

In the same year I contributed to the Fortnightly Review

an article on " Human Selection," which is, I consider, though

very short, the most important contribution I have made to

the science of sociology and the cause of human progress.

The article was written with two objects in view. The first

and most important was to show that the various proposals

of Grant Allen, Mr. Francis Galton, and some American

writers, to attempt the direct improvement of the human

race by forms of artificial elimination and selection, are both

unscientific and unnecessary; I also wished to show that the

great bugbear of the opponents of social reform-too rapid

increase of population-is entirely imaginary, and that the

very same agencies which, under improved social conditions,

will bring about a real and effective selection of the physically,

mentally, and morally best, will also tend towards a diminution of the rate of increase of the population. The facts and

arguments I adduce are, I believe, conclusive against the two

classes of writers here referred to.

A year later I contributed a paper to the Boston Arena,

dealing more especially with the laws of heredity and the

influence of education as determining human progress, showing that such progress is at present very slow, and is due

almost entirely to one mode of action of natural selection,

which still eliminates some of the most unfit. And I pointed

out that a more real and effective progress will only be made

when the social environment is so greatly improved as to

give to women a real choice in marriage, and thus lead both

VOL. ITI.  P

210
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
to the more rapid elimination of the lower, and more rapid
increase of the higher types of humanity.
Shortly afterwards I was interviewed for the Daily
Chronicle on this subject, in which I gave a condensed sketch
of these two articles, and this drew attention to them, and
brought me a very kind and appreciative letter from the
late Frances Willard, who was then in England.
In I89I I wrote the two articles on the American flora
already referred to, and prepared a new edition of my two
books on "Natural Selection " and "Tropical Nature," now
forming one volume, but from which some of the more technical
portions were omitted, while two new chapters were added
-"The Antiquity of Man in North America," and "The
Debt of Science to Darwin." I also wrote two articles on
"Apparitions" for the Boston Arena, which are included in
the later editions of my " Miracles and Modern Spiritualism;"
and I reviewed a few books in Nature, among which was the
important work of Professor Lloyd Morgan on "Animal Life
and Intelligence."
In I892 I wrote four review articles, three of which are
reprinted in my " Studies," and I reviewed (in Nature) Mr.
W. H. Hudson's delightful volume, "The Naturalist in
La Plata."
In the year 1893 I was pretty fully occupied with literary
work. I prepared for Mr. Stanford a new edition of the
Australian volume of his " Compendium of Geography," involving a large amount of new matter; I contributed five
articles to reviews or books, two of which, on " The Ice Age
and its Work," gave an entirely new argument in favour of
the ice-origin of valley-lakes in glaciated regions; and I also
reviewed two books and wrote a number of letters to Nature
on biological and physical problems. In the summer of this
year I went with my wife to the lake district-our first visit;
we ascended two of the mountains, and I paid particular
attention to the phenomena of glaciation, which are every.
where prominent in rounded rocks, glacial striae, and abundance of moraines.

xxxIIl] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905
211
In the year 1894 I read a paper to the Cambridge
Natural Science Club on the question, "What are Zoological
Regions?" which was printed in Nature (April 26). But
my conclusion-that the six regions first defined by Dr. P. L.
Sclater are, for all practical purposes of the study of distribution, the most convenient and those which best illustrate the
actual facts of nature-was contested by my friend, Professor
Alfred Newton as regards the Nearctic and Palaearctic
regions, which he contended formed but one natural region.
I therefore thought it necessary to go into the subject in
more detail, and contributed a paper to Natural Science in
the following June, entitled "The Palearctic and Nearctic
Regions compared as regards the Families and Genera of
their Mammalia and Birds."
The first of these papers was for the purpose of showing
that, to be of any practical use to naturalists, zoological regions
must be so defined as to serve to elucidate the distribution
of all land animals. This will be evident if we consider the
results of the contrary view, that many classes, orders, and
even families, require a special set of regions to exhibit their
distribution with any approach to accuracy. Now as there are
some hundreds of these groups in the animal kingdom, we
should, perhaps, require fifty or a hundred sets of zoological
regions-each set differing in the number of regions and in
the boundaries of each, involving a different set of names in
each case. The result would be that each specialist would
have his own set of regions, with different names and
different boundaries; and as no one could be familiar with
all these, the conclusions of each could be unintelligible and
useless to others. With one set of regions, on the other
hand, the distribution in every case can be described in terms
which would be intelligible to all; and the comparison of the
distribution of groups differing in powers of dispersal and in
other ways, would often lead to an explanation of the differences of distribution, which is the whole aim and end of the
study, and which, so far as I can see, can be arrived at in no
other way.
The second and more technical paper was for the purpose

212
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
of showing the great importance of the absence of extensive
groups from one region that are present in the adjacent
region, even though these groups are not peculiar to either.
Thus, the fact that both the bear and the deer families are
absent from Africa south of the Sahara, though abundant
throughout all Asia and North America, marks out the
Ethiopian region as distinctly as does the presence of giraffes
and hippopotami, which are now peculiar to it.
But I show that, in mammals, about one-third of the
families in the Palmarctic and the Nearctic regions respectively are not found in the other; while in birds, onethird of the families found in the Palaarctic region are not
found in the Nearctic, and one-fourth of those in the Nearctic
are not found in the Palaearctic region. These facts prove,
I maintain, a radical dissimilarity, although, owing to the
fact that temperate Europe and Asia are continuous with
tropical Africa and Asia, and temperate with tropical
America, neither of the regions we are considering have any
important families of birds altogether peculiar to them. Any
of my readers who are interested in the problems here stated
should read the two articles above referred to.
Other articles were, "A Representative House of Lords,"
in the Contemporary Review (June), and "A Suggestion to
Sabbath-Keepers," in the Nineteenth Century (October), both
which articles attracted notice in the Press. I also wrote
a paper criticizing the Rev. George Henslow's views as to the
origin of irregular flowers, and of spines and prickles, in
Natural Science (September), the three articles being included in my " Studies." I also reviewed James Hutchinson
Stirling's "Darwinianism" in Nature (February 8), and Mr.
Benjamin Kidd's "Social Evolution" in the same paper
(April 12), as well as an anonymous volume, entitled
"Nature's Method in the Evolution of Life," by a writer
who suggests vague theories, less intelligible even than those
of Lucretius, as a substitute for the luminous work of
Darwin.
In the next year (I895) I wrote an important article on
"The Method of Organic Evolution " (Fortnightly Review,

xxxIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., 1887-I905
213
February-March), which was chiefly devoted to showing that
the views of Mr. Francis Galton, and of Mr. Bateson in his
book on "Discontinuous Variations," are erroneous; and
that such variations, which are usually termed " sports," and
in extreme cases " monstrosities," do not indicate the method
of evolution. Darwin gave special attention to this view,
and finally rejected it; and I think I have shown why it is
not effective in nature. It is a view which is continually
cropping up as if it were a new discovery, and a Dutch
botanist, De Vries, has recently written a large work claiming
that new species are produced in this manner, through what
he terms "mutations." It was therefore important to show
that all such methods are fallacious, and that owing to the
constancy, universality, and extreme severity of elimination
through survival of the fittest, such large and abrupt variations, except through some extraordinary and almost impossible concurrence of favourable conditions, can never
permanently maintain themselves.
Another article (in the October issue of the same Review)
on " The Expressiveness of Speech " develops a new principle
in the origin of language, and brought me a holograph (and
partly unintelligible) letter from Mr. Gladstone, expressing
his concurrence with it. I also brought out a new edition of
my " Miracles and Modern Spiritualism," containing two new
chapters, and a new preface giving a sketch of the changes of
opinion on the subject during the preceding half century.
In July I went with my friend Mr. William Mitten for a
short botanizing tour in Switzerland. We walked a good deal
of the time, and I thus had a further opportunity of examining
glacial phenomena. We went to Lucerne, whence we ascended
the Stanzerhorn by the electric railway, and found a very
interesting flora on the summit. Then to the head of the
lake, and to Goeschenen, whence we walked to Andermatt;
then over the Furca pass to the Rhone glacier, staying two
days at the hotel; then over the Grimsel pass, where we
greatly enjoyed both the flowers and the wonderful indications
of glacial action, especially on the slope down to and around
the Hotel Grimsel, where we stayed the night. The valley

214
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
down to Meiringen was excessively interesting, being iceworn everywhere. We stayed an hour at the fine Handeck
cascade, and then, with the help of a chaise, into which two
ladies hospitably received us, got on to Meiringen. Here we
stayed two days, exploring the gorge of the Aar and the
wonderful rock-barrier of the Kirchet, visited the Reichenbach
falls, and had an excursion to Brunig, where, in some hilly
beech woods, we were greatly pleased to find the beautiful
Cephalanthera rubra in fair numbers and in full flower. This
is one of the rarest of British orchises, having been found
only at long intervals in Gloucestershire and Somersetshire.
I remember, I think about fifty years ago, seeing a newly
gathered specimen exhibited at the Linnean Society. Other
orchises which occur at similar long intervals are the beautiful
ladies slipper (Cypripedium calceolus) in some Yorkshire woods,
and the strange goat-orchis (0. hircina) in copses in Kent and
Suffolk. In all these cases, no doubt, the plant persists in the
respective localities, but is accidentally prevented from flowering, or requires some specially favourable seasons which only
recur at long intervals. We then went on to Lauterbrunnen
and the Wengern Alp, where we stayed two days, botanizing
chiefly among the woods and slopes near the Trummetthal.
We were, however, so dreadfully persecuted by swarms of
blood-sucking flies, which filled the air and covered us in
thousands, piercing through our thin clothing, that we returned
home some days earlier than we had intended.
In I896 I wrote three articles. "How best to model the
Earth," in the Contemporary Review (May), was a discussion
of the proposal by Elisde Reclus to erect an enormous model
of the globe, about four hundred and twenty feet in diameter,
giving a scale about one-third smaller than our ordnance
maps of one inch to a mile. It was to be modelled in
minute detail on the convex side, and would therefore
require to be completely covered in by a building nearly
six hundred feet high, and would need an elaborate system
of platforms and staircases in order to see it, while only
a very small portion of it could be seen at once, and
accurate photographs could only be taken of very small areas.

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905
215
My proposal was to adopt the plan of Wyld's great globe
in Leicester Square, many years ago, giving all the detailed
features on the inside surface, while the outside could be
boldly modelled in some indestructible material to show all
the chief physical features, which might also be coloured in
fresco as naturally as possible, and would then be a grand
object seen either near or at a distance, while a captive balloon
would afford a splendid view of the polar regions and of all
parts of the northern hemisphere. The numerous advantages
of this plan are explained in some detail, and I have little
doubt that it will be realized (perhaps on half the scale) some
time during the present century. The article is contained in
the second volume of my " Studies."
I also wrote an article on "The Gorge of the Aar and its
Teachings," as serving to enforce my papers on the " Ice Age
and its Work" three years before. But my most important
scientific essay this year was a paper I read to the Linnean
Society on "The Problem of Utility." My purpose:was to
enforce the view that all specific and generic characters must
be (or once have been) useful to their possessor, or, owing
to the complex laws of growth, be correlated with useful characters. It was necessary to discuss this point, because Mr.
Romanes had unreservedly denied it, and Professor Mivart,
the Rev. Mr. Henslow, Mr. Bateson, and others, had taken
the same view. I endeavoured to show that the problem is a
fundamental one, that utility is the basic principle of natural
selection, and that without natural selection it has not been
shown how specific characters can arise. By specific is, of
course, meant characters which, either separately or in combination, distinguish a species from all others, and which are
found in all, or in the great bulk, of the individuals composing
the species; and I have shown that it is for want of clear
thinking and accurate reasoning on the entire process of
species formation that the idea of useless specific characters
has arisen (see "Studies," vol. i.).
I also reviewed Copes' "Primary Factors of Evolution"
and Dr. G. Archdall Reid's "Present Evolution of Man"
in Nature (April 16), and wrote a long letter in Natzre

216
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
(January 9) on "The Cause of the Ice Age," pointing out
the extreme complexity of the subject, and the fallacy
of discussing the problem as if it were merely one of the
amount of sun-heat received in different latitudes under
differing degrees of eccentricity, as several eminent mathematicians had done. In the same issue Sir Robert Ball
pointed out the same fallacy; and this affords a good illustration of the fact that specialists are usually not well fitted to
arrive at the true explanation of great natural phenomena
which are highly complex in their nature, and which require
the consideration of a great variety of physical forces and
laws in order to arrive at their causes. It is for this reason
that Mr. Croll's theory is so much more satisfactory than any
of the modern substitutes for it. His views were, however,
spread over many different periodicals, and are often rather
obscure and disconnected, while few of his recent critics
appear to have studied the whole of them. I venture to
think that my chapter viii. of "Island Life" gives the
best connected and systematic statement of Croll's views
which are to be found, and that the further explanations
of essential points, and some modifications in detail, render
it the completest and most rational theory which has yet
been set forth. Being myself a mere outsider, neither a
geologist nor a mathematician, and only an amateur physicist,
none of the writers on the subject appear to have read my
chapter, since I have never seen it referred to. Yet it
appeals throughout to astronomical, physical, geographical,
and meteorological facts, showing their actions and reactions
on each other, and how they co-operated to produce the
glacial epoch, as they now co-operate to bring about the
strikingly contrasted climates of the eastern and western
shores of the North Atlantic, and the still more striking
contrasts of the Arctic and Antarctic regions.
During this summer I was invited by Dr. H. S. Lunn to
go with him and his party to Davos for a week early in
September, and to give them a lecture on Scientific Progress
in the Nineteenth Century. As I had never been in this part

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I1887-I905
2I7
of Switzerland I accepted the invitation, and had a very
pleasant time. My companion on the first part of the journey
was Mr. Le Gallienne, and at Basle we were joined by Dr.
and Mrs. Lunn and others. At Davos we were a large party
in one of the best hotels, and our special party, who sat
together at meals, included the Rev. Hugh Price Hughes and
the Rev. H. R. Haweis, both talented and witty men, whose
presence was enough to render almost any party a brilliant
success. Mr. Price Hughes was, I think, without exception,
the most witty man and one of the best companions I ever
met. At breakfast and dinner he was especially amusing
and brilliant, ranging from pure chaff with his old friend Dr.
Lunn to genial wit and admirably narrated anecdotes. He
often literally kept the table in a roar of laughter. But this
was only one side of his character. He was a Christian and
a humanitarian in the best sense of the words. I saw a good
deal of him in private, and we often walked out together, at
which times we discussed the more serious social problems
of the day; and he gave me details of his rescue work in
London which were in the highest degree instructive, showing that even those who are considered to be the most
degraded and irreclaimable can be reached through their
affections. Their degradation has usually been brought
about by society, and has been intensified into hate and
despair by the utterly unsympathetic and cruel treatment of
our workhouses and prisons. Mr. Price Hughes gave me an
account of one of these cases a woman who had reached
the uttermost depths of drunkenness and vice, and who was
besides so violent that it was dangerous to approach her.
Knowing her case, a lady who was one of Mr. Hughes' chief
helpers in his rescue work went to the prison to receive her
on her discharge, and begged to be allowed to; go to her cell
and take her with her. She was assured it was not safe,
that she would be instantly attacked, and perhaps seriously
injured. But the lady insisted, and at length was allowed to
try, with several of the strongest female warders at hand to
assist or rescue her from one whom they described as an
utterly irreclaimable wild beast. Mrs. -- entered without

218
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
the least fear, opened her arms, kissed the poor woman with
every indication of compassion and love, and spoke to her as
if she were an unfortunate and ill-used daughter or sister.
The woman was utterly disarmed by the reality of the
affection showed her, and burst into tears. She was taken
to the home of which the lady was the head, and at the time
Mr. Hughes was speaking had been there several years, and
was one of his most useful and earnest helpers. This
woman had not, for years, received a single word of real
sympathy or love. A similar marvellous effect was produced
by Mrs. Fry on the female prisoners in Newgate by her
intense sympathy and affection for them; yet we still go on
with our crude, harsh system of prison discipline, which inevitably degrades and brutalizes the great majority of those
subject to it. And we dare call ourselves enlightened,
humane, civilized, and even Christian!
I also had some pleasant intercourse with Mr. Haweis,
and one day we spent a whole afternoon in a private room,
talking chiefly about spiritualism, of which he had a considerable practical knowledge. He was one of the few
clergymen of the Church of England who not only acknowledged his belief, but preached the doctrines of spiritualism
openly from his London pulpit.
Dr. Lunn arranged for his party some amusement for
several evenings in each week, either a concert, lecture, or
conversazione. Mr. Le Gallienne gave a very interesting
lecture on "English Minor Poets," reading selections from their
works to illustrate their style. Among these he included
Grant Allen, better known as a delightful writer on naturestudy and a novelist, but who was also gifted with the true
poetic power; and, the lecturer thought, had he devoted
himself to developing his power he might have become a
major instead of a minor poet. As an example of his work,
a very agnostic and even atheistic poem was quoted.
I cannot find this, as I remember it, in his little volume
of verse, "The Lower Slopes;" but there is one which

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905
219
expresses the same idea, and which perhaps may be itA Prayer-as follows:" A crowned Caprice is god of this world;
On his stony breast are his white wings furled.
No ear to listen, no eye to see,
No heart to feel for a man hath he.
But his pitiless arm is swift to smite,
And his mute lips utter one word of might;
'Mid the clash of gentler souls and rougher,
Wrong must thou do, or wrong must suffer.'
Then grant, oh, dumb, blind God, at least that we
Rather the sufferers than the doers be."
The lecturer stated that, however extreme and even outrageous these views would appear to many of his audience,
he could assure them from personal knowledge, that they
represented the opinions of almost all of the poets of whom
he had spoken.
After the lecture Dr. Lunn protested against the idea that
poets were generally agnostic or even irreligious, referring to
Milton, Browning, Tennyson, and many others; but Mr. Le
Gallienne had said nothing about these-the major poetsand he assured me afterwards that he was well acquainted
with all the poets he had referred to, and that every one of
them were more or less pronounced agnostics. This seems
to me an interesting fact.
My own lecture was mainly devoted to a sketch of the
chief great advances of science during the century, but I
added to it a kind of set-off in discoveries which had been
rejected and errors which had been upheld, referring to
phrenology as one of the first class, and vaccination as one
of the second. There were, of course, in such a place as
Davos, many doctors among the audience, and they signified
their disapproval in the usual way; but I assured them that
some of them would certainly live to see the time when the
whole medical profession would acknowledge vaccination to
be a great delusion.
Although Davos has no grand alpine scenery immediately
around it, there are many delightful walks through woods full
of flowers and ferns, alpine meadows with gentians and

220
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
primulas, and stony passes from which the snow had just
retreated. On the Strela pass, about eight thousand feet, I
found some charming little alpines I had not seen before,
among them the very dwarf Viola alpina, growing among
stones, the leaves hardly visible and the comparatively large
flat flowers of a very deep blue-purple, with a large orangeyellow eye. This is peculiar to the Eastern Alps, and seems
difficult to cultivate, as few dealers have it in their lists. I
sent home a few plants, but could not succeed in keeping
them alive.
On leaving Davos, I made my way across to Adelboden,
where my wife and daughter, with some friends, were staying.
This is surrounded with fine alpine peaks and snow-fields, and
though the weather was unsettled we spent a pleasant week
here-probably the last visit I shall make to ever-delightful
Switzerland-the sanatorium and alpine garden of overworked
Englishmen.
From this time onwards I did not write many articles or
reviews, the more important being " The Problem of Instinct,"
in I897, in which I gave an attempted solution of bird migration, though the article was really a review of Professor LloydMorgan's "Habit and Instinct;" an article on the question
whether "White men can work in the Tropics," which most
English writers declare to be impossible without thinking it
necessary to adduce evidence, but which, I affirm, is proved by
experience to be quite easy. Both these are reprinted in my
"Studies," as is also a short essay on "The Causes of War
and the Remedies," written for L'Humanite Nouvelle. I also
wrote letters to the Daily Chronicle on America, Cuba, and the
Philippines; and a protest against the Transvaal War in the
Manchester Guardian.
In the year I900 I wrote an article for the New York
Yournal on "Social Evolution in the Twentieth CenturyAn Anticipation," for which I received a very complimentary
letter from the editor. During the next two years I was engaged in preparing new editions of my books on " Darwinism "
and " Island Life," and I also wrote several letters on political
and social subjects, such as an "Appreciation of the Past

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., 1887-1905
221
Century" (in 1901, in the Morning Leader), and (in 1903) an
article on "Anticipations and Hopes for the Immediate
Future," which was written for a German paper (the Berliner
Local A nzieger), but which was too plain-spoken for the editor
to publish, and which I accordingly sent to the Clarion. As
it gives my latest views, expressed in the plainest words, on
some of the most important problems of the day, I give it
here for the consideration of a wider circle of readers.
ANTICIPATIONS AND HOPES FOR THE IMMEDIATE
FUTURE.
I am looking to the coming year with no expectation of any great
change, political or social, but with a hope and belief that the great
movement among the workers in favour of a more rational and more
equitable system of government, and of social organization, will continue
to grow as it has been growing during the last few years. I trust that,
in the more advanced countries-especially in Germany and France-it
may become sufficiently powerful, even within the coming year, to
exercise a decided control over the reactionary party, and even be able
to initiate, and perhaps to secure, some important legislation for the
extension of individual freedom, and for checking military expenditure.
As to the future (limiting ourselves here to the twentieth century), I look
forward to the same movement as destined to produce great and beneficent
results.
The events of the past few years must have convinced all advanced
thinkers that it is hopeless to expect any real improvement from the
existing governments of the great civilized nations, supported and controlled as they are by the ever-increasing power of vast military and
official organizations.
These organizations are a permanent menace to liberty, to national
morality, and to all real progress towards a rational social evolution. It
is these which have given us during the first years of this new century
examples of national hypocrisy and crimes against liberty and humanity
-to say nothing of Christianity-almost unequalled in the whole course
of modern history.
Scarcely was the ink dry of the signatures of their representatives at
the Hague Conference, where they had expressed the most humane and
elevated ideas as to the necessity for reduction of armaments, for the
amelioration of the horrors of war, and for the principle of arbitration in
the settlement of national difficulties, than we find all the chief signatories
engaged in destroying the liberties of weaker peoples, without any rational
cause, and often in opposition to the principles of their own constitutions,
or to solemn promises by their representatives, or in actual treaties.
England carried fire and sword into South Africa, and has robbed two

222
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Republics of the independence guaranteed to them after a former unjust
annexation; a crime aggravated by hypocrisy in the pretence that British
subjects were treated as " helots; " whereas their own committee of inquiry
into the war has now demonstrated that it was a pure war of conquest in
order to secure territory and gold-mines, determined on years before, and
only waiting a favourable opportunity to carry into effect.
The United States, against their own " Declaration of Independence"
and the fundamental principles of their constitution, have taken away the
liberties of two communities, the one-Porto Rico-by mere overwhelming
power, the other-the Philippinos-after a bloody war against a people
fighting for their independence, the only excuse being that they had
been purchased-land and people-from their former conquerors and
oppressors.
Russia itself, the originator of the Peace Conference, forthwith persecutes Jews and Doukhobors on account of their religion, and takes
away their solemnly guaranteed liberties from the Finns-a people more
really civilized than their persecutors.
All three of these governments, as well as Germany and France,
invaded China, and committed barbarities of slaughter, with reckless
devastation and plunder, which will degrade them for all time in the
pages of history.
Such are the doings of the official and military rulers of nations which
claim to be in the first rank of civilization and religion! And there is really
no sign of any improvement. But, for the first time in the history of the
world, the workers-the real sources of all wealth and of all civilizationare becoming educated, are organizing themselves, and are obtaining a
voice in municipal and national governments. So soon as they realize
their power and can agree upon their aims, the dawn of the new era will
have begun.
The first thing for them to do is, to strengthen themselves by unity of
action, and then to weaken and ultimately to abolish militarism. The
second aim should be to limit the bureaucracy, and make it the people's
servant instead of its master. The third, to reorganize and simplify the
entire legal profession, and the whole system of law, criminal and civil;
to make justice free for all, to abolish all legal recovery of debts, and all
advocacy paid by the parties concerned. The fourth, and greatest of all,
will be to organize labour, to abolish inheritance, and thus give equality
of opportunity to every one alike. This alone will establish, first, true
individualism (which cannot exist under present social conditions), and
this being obtained, will inevitably lead to voluntary association for all
the purposes of life, and bring about a social state adapted to the stage
of development of each nation, and of each successive age.
This, in my opinion, is the ideal which the workers (manual and intellectual workers alike) of every civilized country should keep in view.
For the first time in human history, these workers are throwing aside
international jealousies and hatreds; the peoples of all nations are becoming brothers, and are appreciating the good qualities inherent in each

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., 1887-1905
223
and all of them. They will therefore be guilty of folly as well as crime if
they much longer permit their rulers to drill them into armies, and force
them to invade, and rob, and kill each other.
The people are always better than their rulers. But the rulers have
power, wealth, tradition, and the insatiable love of conquest and of
governing others against their will. It is, then, in the People alone that I
have any hope for the future of Humanity.
ALFRED R. WALLACE.
In i904 I wrote a short letter on the "Inefficiency of
Strikes" for the Labour Annual, and a rather long one to
the Clarion, suggesting a policy for socialists in opposition
to continued military expenditure as advocated by Robert
Blatchford; but this was, I fear, too much advanced even for
the readers of this very advanced paper, since no one came
forward in my support. I feel sure, however, that there are
many who, when it is clearly put before them, will approve
of the policy I have sketched out, since it is merely one of
justice and consideration for nations as well as for individuals
-of adopting the same rules of right and wrong in the one
case as in the other. The letter may be termedA SUBSTITUTE FOR MILITARISM.
I will first say a few words on the, to me, extraordinary statement that,
though fifty years of continuously increasing expenditure on our national
defences has resulted in "an inadequate and imperfect" outcome, and
what a military writer in the July Nineteenth Century called " our pitiable
military situation," yet, only give to our rulers unlimited money and conscription, and our defences will instantly become " adequate and efficient."
With all respect, this seems to me nothing less than pure delusion. One
Government after another has had a free hand to reform our military and
naval forces, and all have utterly failed. They have wasted countless
millions with no adequate result. And now we are asked to give them
more millions to waste, and the very same body of official rulers and
organizers and titled officers will suddenly be imbued with wisdom, unselfishness, and economy, and all will be well. Our defences, as by a
miracle, will become " adequate and efficient." For what has to be done
must be done at once. Germany, we are told, is ready; we are not.
Therefore the money and the men must be given to the Government now.
To any such proposal I venture to hope that, by an overwhelming
majority, the Socialist and Labour parties will reply in the now historic
words: " Never again."
But this is only preliminary. We will now come to the real issue.

224
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Robert Blatchford proceeds to ask a number of questions, and to offer a
number of alternatives, as if they were exhaustive and there was nothing
more to be said or done. Shall we leave the Empire defenceless? Shall
we abandon our country and our colonies to the invasion of any power
that cared to take them? Russia covets India. We must either defend
India or surrender it to Russia. If we made India a self-governing
nation, the result would be civilwar and a Russian conquest. More than
one foreign power envies us our possessions. And so on, and so on; with
the one conclusion: We must increase army, navy, and home defences,
and be prepared to fight all the world. Not one word about there being
any alternative to all this blood-and-iron bluster and defiance; not one
syllable to show that the writer is a great Socialist teacher, a believer in
the goodness of human nature and the brotherhood of man. " But," he
replies by his heading, " this is very good in theory, and very true, but it
is not practical politics. The danger is urgent. Tell us, ye Labour
leaders, what you propose to do now. "
I am not a Labour leader, but I hope I am a true friend of Labour
and a true Socialist; and I will now state the case as it appears to me,
and suggest what, in my opinion, is the only course of action worthy of
Socialism or politic for Labour, and, besides, the only course which has
the slightest chance of succeeding in the long run: in one word, the only
RIGHT course.
It is a notorious and undeniable fact that we-that is, our Governments-are, with few exceptions, hated and feared by almost all other
Governments, especially those of the Great Powers. Is there no cause for
this? Surely we know there is ample cause. We have either annexed
or conquered a larger portion of the world than any other Power. We
have long claimed the sovereignty of the sea. We hold islands and forts
and small territories offensively near the territories of other Powers. We
still continue grabbing all we can. In disputes with the powerful we
often give way; with the weak and helpless, or those we think so, we are
-allowing for advance in civilization-bloody, bold, and ruthless as any
conqueror of the Middle Ages. And with it all we are sanctimonious.
We profess religion. We claim to be more moral than other nations,
and to conquer, and govern, and tax, and plunder weaker peoples for
their good! While robbing them we actually claim to be benefactors!
And then we wonder, or profess to wonder, why other Governments hate
us! Are they not fully justified in hating us? Is it surprising that they
seek every means to annoy us, that they struggle to get navies to compete with us, and look forward to a time when some two or three of them
may combine together and thoroughly humble and cripple us? And who
can deny that any just being, looking at all the nations of the earth with
impartiality and thorough knowledge, would decide that we deserve to be
humbled, and that it might do us good?
Now the course I recommend as the only true one is, openly and
honestly, without compulsion and without vainglory, to do away with
many of the offences to other peoples, and to treat all subject peoples and

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-1905

225

all foreign Powers on exactly the same principles of equity, of morality,

and of sympathy, as we treat our friends, acquaintances, and neighbours

with whom we wish to live on friendly terms.

And, to begin with, and to show that our intentions are genuine, I

would propose to evacuate Gibraltar, dismantle the fortress, and give it

over to Spain; Crete and Cyprus should be free to join Greece; Malta,

in like manner, would be given the choice of absolute self-government

under the protection of Britain, or union with Italy. But the effect of

these would be as nothing compared with our giving absolute internal

self-government to Ireland, with protection from attack by any foreign

Power; and the same to the Transvaal and Orange Free State; and this

last we should do " in sackcloth and ashes," with full acknowledgment of

our heinous offences against liberty and our plighted word.

Now we come to India, which our friend Blatchford seems to consider

the test case. And so it is; for if ever there was an example of a just

punishment for evil deeds, it is in the fact that, after a century of absolute

power, we are still no nearer peace and plenty and rational self-government in India than we were half a century ago, when we took over the

government from the " Company" with the promise to introduce homerule as soon as possible. And now we have a country in which plague

and famine are chronic-a country which we rule and plunder for the

benefit of our aristocracy and wealthy classes, and which we are therefore in continual dread of losing to Russia.

If we had honestly kept our word, if we had ruled India with the one

purpose of benefiting its people, had introduced home-rule throughout its

numerous provinces, states, and nations, settling disputes between them,

and guarding them from all foreign attack, we should by now have won

the hearts of its teeming populations, and no foreign Power would have

ventured to invade a group of nations so united and so protected. Such

a position as we might have now held in India-that of the adviser, the

reconciler, and the powerful protector of a federation of self-governing

Native States-would be a position of dignity and true glory very far above

anything we can claim to-day.

But, it will be replied, all this is foolish talk; it will be a century before

the British people will be persuaded to give up its possessions and its

power; and, in the mean time, if we do not defend ourselves we shall not

have the opportunity of being so generous, hardly shall we keep our own

liberties. I have not so low an opinion of my countrymen as to believe

that they really wish to keep other peoples subject to them against their

will; that they are really determined to go on denying that freedom to

others which is so dear a possession to themselves. And if there is not

now a majority who would agree to act at once as I suggest, I am pretty

confident that there is, even now, a majority who would acknowledge

that such action is theoretically just, and that they would be willing to do

it by degrees, and as soon as it is safe, to look forward to it, in fact, as an

ideal to be realized at some future time.

Now, what I wish to urge is, that it is of the most vital importance to

VOL. II.                       Q

226
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
us, now, that all who agree with me that there can be no national honour
or glory apart from justice and mercy, and that to take away people's
liberty and force our rule upon them against their will is the greatest of
all national crimes, should take every opportunity of making their voices
heard. If, for instance, every Socialist in our land, and I hope a very
large proportion of workers and advanced thinkers who may not be
Socialists, would agree to maintain this as one of their fundamental
principles, to be continually brought before the people through the Press
and on the platform, to be urged on the Government at every opportunity,
and to be made a condition of our support of every advanced Parliamentary candidate, we should create a body of ethical opinion and feeling
that would not only be of the highest educational value at home, but which
would influence the whole world in their estimate of us. It would show
them that though our Government is bad-as all Governments are-yet
the people at heart are honest and true, and that it will not be very long
before the people will force their Governments to be honest also.
This, I submit, would be really "practical politics." At the present
day we have got so far as this-that none of the Great Powers wages a
war of aggression and conquest against another Power without some
quarrel or some colourable pretence of injury. But surely the fact of
there being such a party as I have outlined, and especially if it would (as
I think it certainly could) compel the next Government to make some of
the smaller concessions here indicated and adopt the general principle of
respecting the liberties of even the smallest nationalities, would so reduce
the amount of envy and hatred with which we are now regarded as to
considerably diminish the danger of combined aggression upon us.
I should have liked to say something about Russia, and the fact that
we are answerable for the present war in the Far East, by so long upholding Turkey, and preventing Russia from acquiring free egress into
the Mediterranean, in exchange for which concession she would (after the
Russo-Turkish War) have willingly agreed to the neutralizing of Constantinople as a free port under the guarantee of the Powers. We had at that
time a preponderance of power in Europe, as shown by what occurred at
the Peace Congress; but Lord Beaconsfield used that power for a bad
purpose, as Lord Salisbury afterwards admitted.
I greatly regret being obliged to differ so radically from a man I
admire and respect so much as I do Robert Blatchford; but, as I am
known to be a Socialist and a constant reader of the Clarion, it might be
thought that my silence would imply some degree of agreement. The
present letter is merely for the purpose of making my views clear on this
vitally important question, and with the hope that others who agree with
me will not longer keep silence.
ALFRED R. WALLACE.
About the year 1899 our house at Parkstone became no
longer suitable owing to the fact that building had been
going on all around us and what had been pretty open

XXXII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905  227

country when we came there had become streets of villas,

and in every direction we had to walk a mile or more to get

into any open country. I therefore began to search about

various parts of the southern counties for a suitable house,

and as this was almost impossible to obtain, I endeavoured

to induce a sufficient number of friends to join together to

buy a small estate which we could divide between us, so as

to secure the benefit of pleasant society and picturesque surroundings-to create, in fact, a kind of very limited gardencity, or rather garden settlement. With one or two friends

interested in the project, I spent a good deal of time examining estates within thirty or forty miles of London, but though

we found several that were in most ways suitable, it was

found impossible to find any that exactly fulfilled the re.

quirements of the parties most interested or to raise the

necessary funds for the purchase. We then returned to the

search for a house or land for ourselves, and after almost

giving up the attempt in despair, we accidentally found a

spot within four miles of our Parkstone home and about

half a mile from a station, with such a charming distant view

and pleasant surroundings that we determined, if we could

get two or three acres at a moderate price, to build a small

house upon it.

After a rather long negotiation I obtained three acres of

land, partly wood, at the end of the year 190I; sold my

cottage at Godalming at a fair price, began at once making

a new garden and shrubbery, decided on plans, and began

building early in the new year. The main charm of the site

was a small neglected orchard with old much-gnarled apple,

pear, and plum trees, in a little grassy hollow sloping to the

south-east, with a view over moors and fields towards Poole

harbour, beyond which were the Purbeck hills to the right,

and a glimpse of the open sea to the left. In the foreground

were clumps of gorse and broom, with some old picturesque

trees, while the orchard was sheltered on both sides by

patches of woodland. The house was nearly finished in

about a year, and we got into it at Christmas, I902, when we

decided to call it Old Orchard.

228
MY LIFE
(C HAP.
Being so near to our former house, I was able to bring all
our choicer plants to the new ground, and there was, fortunately, a sale of the whole stock of a small nursery near Poole
in the winter, at which I bought about a thousand shrubs and
trees at very low prices, which enabled us at once to plant
some shrubberies and flower borders, and thus to secure
something like a well-stocked garden by the time we got
into the house. Since that time it has been an ever-increasing pleasure, and I have been able to satisfy my craving for
enjoying new forms of plant-life every year, partly by raising
numbers of seeds of hardy and greenhouse plants, always
trying some of the latter in sheltered places out-of-doors, and
partly by exchanges or by gifts from friends, so that every
year I have the great pleasure of watching the opening of
some of nature's gems which were altogether new to me, or
of others which increase year by year in beauty. In one
end of my greenhouse I have a large warmed tank in which
I grow blue, pink, and yellow water-lilies, which flower the
greater part of the year, as well as a few other beautiful or
curious aquatic plants, while the back wall of the house is
covered with choice climbers.
In this hasty sketch of my occupations and literary work
during the last nine years, I have purposely omitted the more
important portion of the latter, because the circumstances
that led me on to undertake three separate works, involving
a considerable amount of labour, were very curious, and to
me very suggestive, and I will now give a connected account
of them.
When in i896 I was invited by Dr. Lunn to give a lecture
to his friends at Davos, I firmly believed that my scientific
and literary work was concluded. I had been for some years
in weak health, and had no expectation of living much longer.
Shortly after returning from America I had another very
severe attack of asthma in i890, and a year or two after it
recurred and became chronic, together with violent palpitations on the least sudden exertion, and frequent colds almost
invariably followed by bronchitis. Any attempt at continuous

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., 1887-1905
229
work was therefore very far from my thoughts, though at
times I was able to do a fair amount of writing. My friend
and neighbour, Professor Allman, had suffered from the same
affliction during a large part of his life, and only found very
partial relief from it by the usual fumigations and cigarettes,
with occasional changes of air, and it was often quite painful
to witness his sufferings, which continued till his death in
i898. As he was himself a medical man, and had had the
best advice attainable, I had little hope of anything but a
continuance and probably an increase of the disease.
But the very next year I obtained relief (and up to the present time an almost complete cure) in an altogether accidental
way, if there are any " accidents " in our lives. Mr. A. BruceJoy, the well-known sculptor (a perfect stranger to me), had
called on me to complete the modelling of a medallion which
he had begun from photographs, and I apologized for not
looking well, as I was then suffering from one of my frequent
spells of asthma, which often prevented me from getting any
sleep at night. He thereupon told me that if I would follow
his directions I could soon cure myself Of course, I was
altogether incredulous; but when he told me that he had
himself been cured of a complication of allied diseases-gout,
rheumatism, and bronchitis-of many years' standing, which
no English doctors were able to even alleviate, by an American
physician, Dr. Salisbury; that it was effected solely by a
change of diet, and that it was no theory or empirical treatment, but the result of thirty years' experiment on the effects
of various articles of diet upon men and animals, by the only
scientific method of studying each food separately and exclusively, I determined to try it. The result was, that in a
week I felt much better, in a month I felt quite well, and
during the six years that have elapsed no attack of asthma
or of severe palpitation has recurred, and I have been able to
do my literary work as well as before I became subject to
the malady.
I may say that I have long been, and am still, in principle,
a vegetarian, and believe that, for many reasons, it will
certainly be the diet of the future. But for want of adequate

230
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
knowledge, and even more from the deficiencies of ordinary
vegetable cookery, it often produces bad effects. Dr. Salisbury proved by experiment that it was the consumption of
too much starch foods that produces the set of diseases which
he especially cures; and when these diseases have become
chronic, the only cure is the almost complete abstention
from starchy substances, especially potatoes, bread, and most
watery vegetables, and, in place of them, to substitute the
most easily digestible well-cooked meat, with fruits and nuts
in moderation, and eggs, milk, etc., whenever they can be
digested. Great sufferers find immediate relief from an exclusive diet of the lean of beef. I myself live upon wellcooked beef with a fair proportion of fat (which I can digest
easily), a very small proportion of bread or vegetables, fruit,
eggs, and light milk puddings. The curious thing is that
most English doctors declare that a meat diet is to be
avoided in all these diseases, and many order complete
abstinence from meat, but, so far as I can learn, on no really
scientific grounds. Dr. Salisbury, however, has experimentally proved that this class of ailments are all due to malnutrition, and that this malnutrition is most frequently
caused by the consumption of too much of starch foods at
all meals, which overload the stomach and prevent proper
digestion and assimilation. My case and that of Mr. BruceJoy certainly show that Dr. Salisbury has found, for the
first time in the history of medicine, a cure-not merely an
alleviation-for these painful and distressing maladies. This
personal detail as to my health is, I think, of general interest
in view of the large number of sufferers who are pronounced
incurable by English doctors, and it was here an essential
preliminary to the facts I have now to relate, which would
probably not have occurred as they did had my health not
been so strikingly renovated.1
1 In addition to the foregoing, I have suffered at intervals from diseases contracted abroad, which have recurred in acute paroxysms, and sometimes threatened
to become serious. For years together they have given me much anxiety and
required constant care and attention. Since my general health has improved,
however, they have so much diminished as no longer to give me much trouble. I
have also suffered twice from severe eye troubles. My sight has always been

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., I887-I905
231
The lecture which I gave at Davos on the science of the
nineteenth century (a subject suggested by Dr. Lunn) led me
to think that an instructive and popular book might be made
of the subject, as I found there were so many interesting
points I could not treat adequately or even refer to in a
lecture. I therefore devoted most of my spare time during
the next year to getting together materials and writing the
volume, which I finished in the spring of I898, and it was
published in June. The work had a pretty good sale, and at
the request of my publishers I prepared from it a School
Reader, with a considerable number of illustrations, which
was published in 1901o. This suggested the idea of a much
enlarged and illustrated edition of the original work, which
was, as regards many of the more important sciences and
arts, a mere outline sketch. Almost all the year I902 and
part of I903 was occupied in getting together materials for
this new work, as it really was, and it was not published till
the autumn of the latter year.
But while I was writing three new chapters on the
wonderful astronomical progress of the latter half of the
century, the startling fact was impressed upon me that we
were situated very nearly at the centre of the entire stellar
universe. This fact, though it had been noted by many of
the greatest astronomical writers, together with the indications
myopic, though otherwise strong, but in I883 I did a great ideal of work at night,
requiring a continual reference to several books of different-sized print, and this
brought on rather severe inflammation of the retina, which necessitated a darkened
room for some weeks, and no reading or writing for several months-a tremendous
trial to me, so that I was able to do no literary work in I884. The occulist I consulted told me that with care in two or three years my eyes would be as strong as
ever; and they very gradually became so, and I had no further trouble till I891,
when some irritating substance got into my left eye and could not be got out,
causing severe inflammation for some weeks, which, however, passed away without
immediate bad results. From that time, however, there began a loss of the power
of adjustment of the two eyes, so that I saw distant objects double, and this has
increased so that I now see everything double, even at the other side of a room;
but this does not much inconvenience me except to produce a general indistinctness of objects. Two persons walking together on the other side of the street
seem to me to be three or four persons, according to the angle of sight, and I often
have to shut one eye in order to be sure how many there are. The divergence
has now, I think, got to the worst, as I perceive no difference during the last
few years.

232
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
that led to the conclusion that our universe was finite,
and that we could almost, if not quite, see to its very limits,
were seldom commented on as more than isolated phenomena
-curiosities, as it were, of star distribution-but of no special
significance. To me, however, it seemed that they probably
had a meaning; and when I further came to examine the
numerous facts which led to the conclusion that no other
planet in the solar system than our earth was habitable,
there flashed upon me the idea that it was only near the
centre of this vast material universe that conditions prevailed
rendering the development of life, culminating in man,
possible. I did not, however, dwell upon this idea, but
merely suggested it in a single paragraph on pp. 329-330
of my work, and I might probably never have pursued the
subject further but for another circumstance which kept
my attention fixed upon it.
While I was still hard at work upon the book, the London
agent of the New York Independent wrote to ask me to write
them an article on any scientific subject I chose. I at first
declined, as having no subject which I thought suitable, and
not wishing to interrupt my work. But when he urged me
again, and told me to name my own fee, the idea struck me
that these astronomical facts, with the conclusion to which
they seemed to me to point, might form a very interesting,
and even new and attractive article. As the subject was
fresh in my mind, and I had the authorities at hand, it did
not take me very long to sketch out and write a paper of the
required length, which appeared simultaneously in the Independent and in the Fortnightly Review, and, to my great
surprise, created quite a sensation, and, still more to my
surprise, a considerable amount of antagonism and rather
contemptuous criticism by astronomers and physicists, to
which I replied in a subsequent article.
But as soon as my agent, Mr. Curtis Brown, read the MSS.
he suggested that I should write a volume on the subject, which
he was sure would be very attractive and popular, and for
which he undertook to make arrangements both in England
and America, and secure me liberal terms. After a little

XXXIII] LITERARY WORK, ETC., 1887-I905
233
consideration I thought I could do so, and terms were arranged
for the book before the article itself was published. This
enabled me to get together all the necessary materials and
to begin work at once, and after six months of the stiffest
reading and study I ever undertook, the book was completed
in September, and published in November of the same year.
In November of 1904 a cheaper edition was published, with
an additional chapter in an Appendix. This chapter contained an entirely new argument, founded on the theory of
organic evolution, which I had not time to introduce into the
first edition. This argument is itself so powerful that, when
compourded with the arguments founded on astronomical,
physical, and physiological phenomena, it renders the improbability of there having been two independent developments of organic life culminating in man, so great as to be
absolutely inconceivable.
The success of this volume, and the entirely new circle of
readers it brought me, caused my publishers to urge me to
prepare the present work, which I should otherwise have not
written at all, or only on a very much smaller scale for the
information of my family as to my early life.
Now it seems to me a very suggestive fact that my
literary work during the last ten years should have been so
completely determined by two circumstances which must be
considered, in the ordinary sense of the term, and in relation
to my own volition, matters of chance. If Dr. Lunn had not
invited me to Davos, and if he had suggested "Darwinism "
or any other of my special subjects instead of the " Science
of the Nineteenth Century," I should not have written my
" Wonderful Century;" I should not have had my attention
so specially directed to great astronomical problems; I
should not, when asked for an article, have chosen the subject
of our sun's central position; and I should certainly never
have undertaken such a piece of work as my book on " Man's
Place in the Universe," or the present autobiography. And
further, without the accident of a perfect stranger calling
upon me for reasons of his own, and that stranger happening
to be a man who had been so marvellously cured by Dr.

234
MY LIFE
[CHAP. XXXIIIJ
Salisbury as to induce me to adopt the same treatment, with
similar results, I should never have had the energy required
to undertake the two later and more important works. Of
course, it may be that these are only examples of those
" happy chances " which are not uncommon in men's lives;
but, on the other hand, it may be true that, "there's a
divinity that shapes our ends, rough-hew them as we will; "
and those who have reason to know that spiritual beings can
and do influence our thoughts and actions, will see in such
directive incidents as these examples of such influence.
Although I have now brought the narrative of my literary
and home life up to the time of writing this Autobiography,
there are a number of special subjects, which, for the sake of
clearness, I have either wholly omitted, or only just mentioned, but which have either formed important episodes in
my life, or have brought me into communication or friendly
intercourse with a number of interesting people, and which
therefore require to be narrated consecutively in separate
chapters. These will now follow, and will, I think, be not
the least interesting or instructive portions of my work.
NOTE.
The ADDENDUM at the end of this volume should have followed here,
and had better be read before the remaining chapters.-A. R. W.

CHAPTER XXXIV
LAND NATIONALIZATION TO SOCIALISM, AND THE FRIENDS
THEY BROUGHT ME
SOON after I returned from the Amazon (about I853), I read
Herbert Spencer's "Social Statics," a work for which I had
a great admiration, and which seemed to me so important in
relation to political and social reform, that I thought of
inviting a few friends to read and discuss it at weekly meetings. This fell through for want of support, but the whole
work, and more especially the chapter on "The Right to
the Use of the Earth," made a permanent impression on
me, and ultimately led to my becoming, almost against my
will, President of the Land Nationalization Society, which
has now been just a quarter of a century in existence. In
connection with this movement, I have made the acquaintance
of a considerable number of persons of more or less eminence,
and my relations with some of these will form the subject of
the present chapter.
The publication of my "Malay Archipelago" in I869,
procured me the acquaintance of John Stuart Mill, who
on reading the concluding pages, in which I condemn our
"civilization" as but a form of " barbarism," and refer, among
other examples, to our permitting private property in land,
wrote to me from Avignon on May I9, I870, enclosing the
programme of his proposed Land Tenure Reform Association, and asking me to become a member of the General
Committee. Its object was to claim the future "unearned
increment" of land values for the State, to which purpose
it was to be strictly limited. I accepted the offer, but
235

236
MY LIFE
[CHAP,.
proposed a new clause, giving the State power of resuming
possession of any land on payment of its net value at the
time, because, as I pointed out, the greatest evil was the
monopoly of land, not the money lost by the community.
This he himself supported, but suggested giving not the
current value only, but something additional as compensation; and I think this was done. Later I proposed another
addition to the programme, which he also agreed to, as shown
by the following extract from a letter I received from him in
July, referring to a general meeting of the Association at the
Freemason's Tavern:"I hope that you will be able to attend, and that you will
propose, as an addition to the programme, the important
point which you suggested in your letter to me, viz., the
right of the State to take possession (with a view to their
preservation) of all natural objects or artificial constructions
which are of historical or artistic interest. If you will propose this I will support it, and I think there will be no
difficulty in getting it put into the programme, where
undoubtedly I think it ought to be."
He then asked me to dine with him at Blackheath Park on
the following Sunday at five o'clock, which I of course
accepted. The only other persons present were his stepdaughter Miss Helen Taylor, Mr. George Grote the historian,
and the Hon. Auberon Herbert. We had a very pleasant
dinner and some very interesting and instructive conversation
afterwards, only one portion of which I recollect, as it referred
to a subject on which I differed from Mill, and thought his
views, for such an undoubtedly great and clear thinker, somewhat hasty and ill-considered. The conversation turned
somehow upon the existence and nature of God. Mr. Grote
seemed inclined to accept the ordinary idea of an eternal
omniscient and benevolent existence, because anything else
was almost unthinkable. To which Mill replied, that whoever considered the folly, misery, and badness of the bulk of
mankind, such a belief was unthinkable, because it would
imply that God could have made man good and happy, have
abolished evil, and has not done so. I ventured to suggest

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
237
that what we call evil may be essential to the ultimate
development of the highest good for all; but he would not
listen to it or argue the question at all, but repeated, dogmatically, that an omnipotent God might have made man
wise, good, and happy, and as He had not chosen to do so it
was absurd for us to believe in such a being and call Him
almighty and good. He then turned the conversation as if
he did not wish to discuss the matter further.
There is one point in connection with this problem which
I do not think has ever been much considered or discussed.
It is, the undoubted benefit to all the members of a society
of the greatest possible diversity of character, as a means
both towards the greatest enjoyment and interest of association, and to the highest ultimate development of the race.
If we are to suppose that man might have been created or
developed with none of those extremes of character which
now often result in what we call wickedness, vice, or crime,
there would certainly have been a greater monotony in human
nature which would, perhaps, have led to less beneficial results
than the variety which actually exists may lead to. We are
more and more getting to see that very much, perhaps all,
the vice, crime, and misery that exists in the world is the
result, not of the wickedness of individuals, but of the entire
absence of sympathetic training from infancy onwards. So
far as I have heard, the only example of the effects of such
a training on a large scale, was that initiated by Robert
Owen at New Lanark, which, with most unpromising
materials, produced such marvellous results on the character
and conduct of the children, as to seem almost incredible to
the numerous persons who came to see and often critically
to examine them. There must have been all kinds of
characters in his schools, yet none were found to be incorrigible, none beyond control, none who did not respond
to the love and sympathetic instruction of their teachers.
It is therefore quite possible that all the evil in the world
is directly due to man, not to God, and that when we once
realize this to its full extent we shall be able, not only to
eliminate almost completely what we now term evil, but

238
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
shall then clearly perceive that all those propensities and
passions that under bad conditions of society inevitably led
to it, will under good conditions add to the variety and the
capacities of human nature, the enjoyment of life by all, and
at the same time greatly increase the possibilities of development of the whole race. I myself feel confident that this is
really the case, and that such considerations, when followed
out to their ultimate issues, afford a complete solution of the
great problem of the ages-the origin of evil.
The last letter I had from Mill was in April, i87I, when
a great public meeting of the Association was to be held on
May 3, as to which he said, " It would be very useful to
the Association, and a great pleasure to myself, if you would
consent to be one of the speakers at the meeting. There is
the more reason why you should do so, as you are the author
of one very valuable article of the programme. Were you
to explain and defend that article, it would be a service
which no one is so well qualified to render as yourself." I
had then recently visited the stone circles and bridges of
Dartmoor, and also Stonehenge, and urged the importance
of preserving them. At that time there would probably
have been no question of paying more than the actual
selling value of the land, and we should have been spared
the disgrace of having our grandest ancient monument, after
centuries of neglect and deterioration, claimed to be private
property, and having an exorbitant price demanded for it.
But Mill's death soon afterwards put an end to the association, and we had to wait many years for the present very
imperfect legislation on the subject.
The question of land nationalization continued at intervals to occupy my mind, but having become strongly
impressed by the teachings of Spencer, Mill, and other
writers as to the necessity for restricting rather than extending State agency, and by their constant reference to the
inevitable jobbery and favouritism that would result from
placing the management of the whole land of the country
in the hands of the executive, that I did not attempt to

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
239
write further upon the subject. But when the topic of Irish
landlordism became very prominent in the year 1879-80,
an idea occurred to me which seemed to entirely obviate all
the practical difficulties which were constantly adduced as
insuperable, and I at once took the opportunity of the
controversy on the question to set forth my views in some
detail. I did this especially because the Irish Land League
proposed that the Government should buy out the Irish
landlords, and convert their existing tenants into peasantproprietors, who were to redeem their holdings by payments
extending over thirty-five years. This seemed to me to be
unsound in principle, and entirely useless except as a temporary expedient, since it would leave the whole land of
Ireland in the possession of a privileged class, and would
thus disinherit all the rest of the population from their
native soil.
In my essay I based my whole argument upon a great
principle of equity as regards the right of succession to
landed property, a principle which I have since further
extended to all property.1 But the suggestion which rendered
land nationalization practicable was, that while, under certain
conditions stated, all land would gradually revert to the
State, what is termed in Ireland the tenant-right, and in
England the improvements, or increased value given to the
land by the owner or his predecessors, such as buildings,
drains, plantations, etc., would remain his property, and be
paid for by the new state-tenants at a fair valuation. The
selling value of land was thus divided into two parts: the
inherent value or ground-rent value, which is quite independent of any expenditure by owners, but is due solely to
nature and society; and the improvements, which are due
solely to expenditure by the owners or occupiers, and which
are essentially temporary in nature. My experience in
surveying and land-valuation assured me that these two
values can be easily separated. It follows that land as
owned by the State would need no " management " whatever,
the rent being merely a ground-rent, which could be collected
1 See my " Studies, Scientific and Social," vol. ii. chap. xxviii.

240
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
just as the house-tax and the land-tax are collected, the statetenant being left as completely free as is the "freeholder"
now (who is in law a state-tenant), or as are the holders of
perpetual feus in Scotland.
This article appeared in the Contemporary Review of
November, I88o, and it immediately attracted the attention
of Mr. A. C. Swinton, Dr. G. B. Clark, Mr. Roland Estcourt,
and a few others, who had long been seeking a mode of
applying Herbert Spencer's great principle of the inequity of
private property in land, and who found it in the suggestions
and principles I had laid down. They accordingly communicated with me; several meetings were held at the
invitation of Mr. Swinton, who was the initiator of the
movement, and after much discussion as to a definite programme, the "Land Nationalization Society" was formed,
and, much against my wishes, I was chosen to be president.
Notwithstanding the scanty means of the majority of the
founders and members, the society has struggled on for a
quarter of a century. Its lecturers and its yellow vans have
pervaded the country, and it has effected the great work
of convincing the highest and best-organized among the
manual workers as represented by their Trades Unions, that
the abolition of land-monopoly, which is the necessary result
of its private ownership, is at the very root of all social
reform. Hence the future is with them and us, and though
the capitalists and the official Liberals are still against us, we
wait patiently, and continue to educate the masses in the
certainty of a future and not distant success.
Although Herbert Spencer was the first eminent Englishman of science to establish the doctrine of land nationalization
upon the firm basis of social justice, he had several forerunners who saw the principle as clearly as he did, declared
it as boldly, but, being far in advance of their age, were
treated with scorn, persecution, or neglect. The earliest was
Thomas Spence, a poor schoolmaster of Newcastle-on-Tyne,
who in I775 delivered a lecture before the Philosophical
Society of that town, for which he was immediately expelled

XXXIV]

LAND NATIONALIZATION

24I

from the society, and soon after obliged to leave the town.

This lecture was reprinted by Mr. H. M. Hyndham in 1882,

and a single sentence will indicate its scope and purpose:" Hence it is plain that the land or earth, in any country

or neighbourhood, belongs at all times to the living inhabitants of the said country or neighbourhood in an equal

manner. For, as I said before, there is no living but on land

and its productions, consequently what we cannot live

without we have the same property in as our lives."

Spence further opposed centralized government as much

as any individualist of our day, and advocated a system of

free communal home-rule, every parish owning its own land

and managing its own affairs.

A few years later, in 1782, Professor Ogilvie published

anonymously, "An Essay on the Right of Property in Land "

(a volume of 120 pages). He lays down the principle that

no right to property in land can justly arise except through

occupancy and labour upon it, and even this must be limited

by the equal rights of every other individual. And after

discussing the various laws and circumstances of modern

civilized communities, he shows how the laws can be amended

so as to bring about a just distribution of land. This is a

thoughtful, well-reasoned, and clearly written work, yet it

remained almost unknown to successive generations of

reformers.

A few years later than H. Spencer (in I856), but apparently

quite independently of him, a very remarkable work was

published in London, under the title " On the Evils, Impolicy,

and Anomaly of Individuals being Landlords and Nations

Tenants," by Robert Dick, M.D. This was a very comprehensive work, anticipating the main thesis of Henry George,

as shown by the following passage from the introductory

chapter: "My design, in short, is to show that wealth,

accumulated in individuals and classes, necessarily implies

poverty elsewhere, in like manner as exemption from labour

by some men and classes, of necessity implies double, treble,

quadruple labour in others." He then lays down a number

of fundamental propositions, which are so brief, clear, and

VOL. II.              R

242
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
forcible, and go so directly to the root of all those social
problems which demand solution to-day even more peremptorily than they did a century ago, that I will give the more
important of them here"Prop. I. The use of earth in the form of food is equally
necessary for human life as the use of air-the privation
of one kills in a few minutes, of the other in a few days or
weeks."
"Prop. II. Hence the man who controls land, controls
human life-excluding life that might be, holding at his
mercy life that is."
" Prop. III. As God made a free gift to each man of life,
He equally intended for a free gift the necessary condition
of life-a portion of the soil."
"Prop. V. Hence a portion of the soil is each man's
congenital and inalienable patrimony."
" Prop. VII. The nationalizing of the soil should have been
the primary, the fundamental step in human association."
"Prop. X. The culture of a portion of the soil (as a man's
own) has this advantage over all other labour, that it gives
him directly, and at first cost, those very necessaries which
he is obliged, indirectly, to seek, in manufactures, trade, and
commerce, namely, home, food, fuel, etc., all which must
otherwise be purchased at more than natural cost in labour
or money."
"Prop. XIII. It is out of the pauper and floating masses
who have been separated from the land, and have consequently
no option between starvation and selling their labour unconditionally, that capital is originally formed, and is, thereafter, enabled absolutely to dictate to the very labour that
creates it, and to defraud that labour of those surplusses
which ought to remain wholly with the latter."
In these two last propositions is comprised the whole
philosophy of social reform, the last anticipating the main
thesis of Marx. And to show how well this fine writer and
thinker appreciated the more human,esthetic, and ennobling
aspects of the question, I will give one more short quotation,
on the overcrowding and housing questions, still talked about

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
243
as if they could be remedied piecemeal while the fundamental cause of these and a thousand other evils remains
untouched"Is it to be credited that this crowding together of men
in houses dovetailed into each other, with everything of
nature-winds, flowers, verdure, the healthy smell of earthshut out and replaced by a thousand miasmas-is it, I say,
to be credited that this is the normal condition of beings
born with natural cravings for activity and pure air, with an
intelligent eye for nature's manifold beauties, with bodies
requiring to be exercised no less than heads? The very
necessity for drains tells against us. All manure was meant
directly to nourish the land it accumulates on-not to pollute
our streams and rivers. Cities as they now are, are the
abscesses of nature. The soil and terrestrial space are not
meant for the rearing of food only, but to be dwelt and
moved about on-to be daily enjoyed in all the variety of
agreeable sights, sounds, and odours they afford us."
This important, thoughtful, and suggestive work, published
in our own time, and dealing most thoroughly with the evergrowing evils of our social economy, has remained almost
absolutely unknown. With the exception of the works of
one or two land-nationalizers, I have never seen it even
referred to by the host of political writers, who weakly and
ignorantly dabble in the great questions affecting the real
well-being of our whole population.
Our Society being established, it seemed necessary to
prepare something in the form of a handbook or introduction
to the great problem of the land; and I accordingly devoted
my attention to the subject, studying voluminous reports on
agriculture, on Irish famines, on Highland Crofters, and
numbers of special treatises dealing with the various aspects
of this vast and far-reaching question. My book was
published in March, 1882, under the title "Land Nationalization: its Necessity and its Aims," and gave, in a compact
form, the only general account of the evils of our land system
as it exists in England, Ireland, and Scotland; a comparison

244
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
with other countries or places in which a better system
prevails, together with a solution of the problem of how to
replace it by the only just system, without any confiscation
of property or injury to any living individual. The book has
had a large circulation, and, in a revised edition, is still on
sale; and, together with numerous tracts issued by the Society,
has done much to educate public opinion on this most vital
of all political or social questions.
As, however, it was quite certain that it would take a
very long time before even the first steps towards land
nationalization would be taken, I took every opportunity of
advocating such other fundamental reforms as seemed to me
demanded by equity and to be essential to social well-being.
One of the earliest was on the subject of interest, about
which there was much difference of opinion among advanced
thinkers. A discussion having arisen in The Christian
Socialist, I developed my views at some length in an article
which appeared in the issue of March, i884. As it still
appears to me to be logically unassailable, and is upon a
subject of the very highest social importance, I give it hereTHE MORALITY OF INTEREST-THE TYRANNY OF
CAPITAL.
By ALFRED RTJSSEL WALLACE.
Having read Professor Newman's defence of interest and your remarks
thereon, I wish to make a few observations on the general question.
Your position, and also that of Mr. Ruskin, appears to be that money
should be lent only as an act of benevolence or charity, and that lending
it in any other way is not only, in most cases, economically and socially,
injurious, but is also morally wrong. With the first part of this proposition I am very much inclined to agree, but not with the second. Looked
at broadly, I believe that the power of obtaining interest on capital,
however great, with the corresponding desire of the owner of capital to
obtain interest on it, is, next to the private monopoly of land, the great
cause of the poverty and famine that prevail in all the most advanced
and most wealthy communities. To prove this would occupy too much
space; but I may just notice that bankruptcies, with the widespread
misery they inflict; the speculations of promoters and financiers often
bringing ruin on hundreds or thousands of deluded investors; and the

xxxIV]  LAND NATIONALIZATION  245

vast loans to foreign despots, which can only be paid by the sweat and

blood of their unfortunate subjects, are the direct, and in the present

state of society, the necessary results of the interest-system. Professor

Newman says that if it were to cease, business would be lessened by

one-third. But only rotten and speculative business would be stopped;

commercial men would then be what they only now appear to be, and no

really necessary business would cease to be carried on. The late William

Chambers has stated (in his " Life of Robert Chambers ") that their vast

bookselling, printing, and publishing business was established and carried

on from first to last without one penny of borrowed capital; and that, as

a result, panics and financial crises which brought ruin to some of their

competitors, only caused them a little temporary inconvenience. I

believe, therefore, that it would be for the benefit of the community if

loans of money, or advances of goods on credit, were not recognized by

the law, but were made wholly at the risk of the lender; but I do not

see that it follows that he who lends, even under these circumstances,

and takes interest for his loan, is doing what is wrong. For I cannot

perceive any essential difference in principle between lending on interest,

and selling at a profit. If I buy a shipload of drugs or any other goods

at wholesale price, warehouse them, and sell them in the course of a

year at the current market rate, making a profit of, say, 15 per cent. on

my money, am I doing that which is morally wrong? Of the amount

gained by me, we may put perhaps I or 2 per cent. for my personal

trouble in the matter, 2 or 3 per cent. for risk of loss, 5 per cent. for

interest on capital, and the other 5 per cent. for surplus profit. Is this

io per cent. illegitimate gain? and am I morally bound to sell my goods

at so much below the market rate as to leave me only fair payment for

my time and risk? If it is wrong to take interest for the money which,

when lent to another man enables him to do this, surely it is wrong to

take a larger share in the shape of profit; and this really means that all

trade is immoral which returns more than payment for personal labour,

and insurance of the capital employed. But if so, it should be so stated,

and the question should not be confined to interest on money loans only,

and, in fact, Mr. Ruskin does not so confine it. The quotation you make

from Mr. Ruskin does not, however, seem to me at all to the point. You

freely lend your friend an umbrella in his need, and you would even do

the same to the merest acquaintance or neighbour, but if your neighbour

called every day for your umbrella on his way to the city, and other

neighbours followed his example, so that you ceased to have the use of

your own umbrellas, you would soon have either to refuse to lend, or to

charge a rent for the use of them, and if this were convenient to your

neighbours, and they were willing to pay you sufficient to cover the wear

and tear of umbrellas, your time and trouble in looking after them, and

interest on your capital invested in them, it will require arguments very

different from any yet advanced to satisfy me that you would be morally

wrong in doing so. In like manner, though you lend your friend or

neighbour cab-money, or give him a bed for a night on rare occasions

246
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
when he urgently requires such aid, you would give none of these things
repeatedly to a mere acquaintance. Yet, if circumstances rendered such
accommodation very useful to a considerable number of persons, and you
or some one else found it profitable to supply such accommodation, you
would charge rent for your beds, and interest for your loans, and the
transaction would differ nothing in principle from that of every tradesman
who sells goods at a profit, of the innkeeper who charges beds in his bill,
or of the jobmaster who charges for the use of his horses or his carriages.
Nothing deserving the name of proof has yet been given that either of
these things are immoral. Whether it is a good and healthy state of
society in which large numbers of persons get their living by such means,
is another matter altogether.
The difference of opinion on this question of usury arises mainly from
the different standpoints of the disputants. Seeing that it is bound up
with many of the evils of modern society, and believing that it should
have no place in a system of true Socialism, you and Mr. Ruskin denounce
it as immoral. Professor Newman, on the other hand, looks at it as a
question of modern society, and finds nothing in its essential nature
contrary to justice, and here he seems to me to have the best of the
argument. No doubt, in a more perfect state of society, in which private
accumulations of capital were comparatively small, and the land and its
products were freely open to the use of all, usury would have little place,
because loans of money would rarely be needed; but when they were
needed, I cannot see any grounds for maintaining that it would be
morally wrong to lend money on interest. On the contrary, such loans
would then retain their use without the evils their wide extension now
brings. There would be no great capitalists, and if one man lent to
another it would be a convenience to the borrower, and certainly some
loss to the lender, because, as Professor Newman well puts it, ~ioo paid
one year or ten years hence is not as valuable as ~ ioo paid to-day. To
say that it is so is really to say that it has no value to-day, for if its
payment can be delayed one year without loss it can two, or three, or
ten, or a hundred, or a thousand! Where are we to stop? If we suppose
a perfect social state, we suppose all men to be producers, and as capital
is an aid to production, no man can give up the use of his capital to
another without loss. The true solution of the problem is, I believe, to
be found in the proposition that all loans should be tersonal, and, therefore, temporary; and that, as a corollary, the repayment of the capital
should be provided for in the annual payments agreed to be made by
the borrower, either for a fixed period (if he live so long), or for the term
of his life. This would abolish the idea of perpetual interest, which is as
impossible in fact as it is wrong in principle, while it would avoid the
injustice of compelling one man, or set of men, to pay the debts of a
preceding generation from which they may have received no real
benefit.
This question of interest thus becomes involved in the wider question
of the tyranny of capital over labour, and its remedy. At present,

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
247
civilized Governments act on the presumption that great 'accumulations
of capital are beneficial, and even necessary, to the well-being of the
community, and all legislation favours such accumulations. When the
people are once convinced that the reverse is the case, and legislation is
directed to favour small holders of capital, and to check its inordinate
accumulation, most of the evils complained of will cease. To this end
the first step would be to get rid of all Government funds, guaranteed
loans, railway stocks, etc., which are the main agents and tools by which
capital is accumulated and money is made to breed money. This could
be done in every case by making such stocks non-transferable after
a certain date, and then declaring the payments to be terminable at the
death of the holders and their living heirs, just as I propose to do in the
case of landlords. The railways should be taken by the State, existing
shareholders receiving annuities of the amount of their average dividends,
payable in like manner to themselves and their living heirs. The Limited
Liability Act should be repealed, because it has served only to foster the
worst and most iniquitous speculations, and has deluded the public into
the idea that they could safely share in the profits of commercial enterprises of the nature and management of which they are profoundly
ignorant. There would remain no safe investments for money, except
in some branch of agriculture, manufactures, or commerce in which
either the investor or some relation or friend was personally interested,
and thus would be brought about the diminution and practical abolition
of usury as a system, and of whole classes living idle lives on the interest
of money derived from the accumulations of previous generations.
Of course, it will be said that the plan here proposed is wholesale
confiscation and repudiation; but a little consideration will show that
it is nothing of the kind, and that it is really the best thing that can
happen even to the individual holders of the stocks dealt with. In the
case of the National Debt, for example, fundholders are now threatened
with a reduction of interest of a quarter per cent., and later on of a half
per cent.; and they will be forced to accept it, because the interest on the
public debt regulates that of all other good investments, which will
inevitably rise in price enormously if any considerable portion of the
amount now invested in the funds seeks other investments. The offer
to pay off fundholders at par, will, therefore, be illusory, and the vast
class who live upon their dividends will inevitably have their incomes
reduced one-twelfth or one-sixth, while the cost of living goes on
continually increasing. Would they not be far better off to have their
present incomes secured to themselves and their living heirs? And
when they fully realize their position, will they not choose the latter
alternative if offered them? If the series of changes here sketched out
were effected, the reign of capital as the tyrant and enemy of labour
would be at an end. When the tools with which the financier and the
speculator work no longer exist, the piling up of great fortunes will be
impossible, and much personal care and attention will be required in
order to make capital produce a steady return. Industry and commerce

248
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
will be the sole means of acquiring wealth, and by these means aloneunder the new conditions of society-very great wealth can never be
accumulated by one man. For the land being nationalized, and the
use of some portion of it obtainable by all, the minimum of wages will
rise far above the starvation point which now prevails, and every village
or other community, however small, will consist of small capitalists, who
will be ever ready to unite for the safe employment of their capital.
Then will arise a variety of industries on a scale adapted to the size and
wealth of the district, and calculated to utilize the surplus labour and
spare time of the surrounding population; and these small industries
will compete successfully with the establishments of individual capitalists,
because they will have an ample and cheap supply of labour, and because
most of the labourers, or their relations, will be shareholders, and will
be thus working for themselves. The individual capitalist will then find
himself paralyzed for want of labour, unless he offers great temptations
in the form of high wages and participation in the profits. For when
a large proportion of the population are settled upon the land, and are
able to devote their savings and their spare time to local industries, they
will not, as now, be forced to become parts of a huge manufacturing
machine in the success of which they have little personal interest.
By the methods here sketched out the labourer will receive, as Karl
Marx and other social reformers maintain that he should do, the whole
produce of his labour, and he will obtain this general result without any
aid from Government, except what consists in remedying injustice, and
removing the restrictions on freedom which now hamper him. Without
any laws against usury, usury will practically cease to exist. Without
any direct restrictions on wealth, those vast and injurious accumulations
of wealth which now prevail will be impossible. The " stealers " and the
' beggars" who now, as Mr. Girdlestone has shown, are so numerous
among us, will steadily give place to "workers," and just in proportion
as that happens, poverty will diminish, and will ultimately disappear.
Now, a large portion of the working population are employed in the
production of useless and often tasteless luxuries and trifles, the direct
consequence of the large number of persons who have surplus money to
spend after all their reasonable wants and comforts are fully satisfied.
It is this, much more than the mere number of idle people, that is the
dead weight which keeps thousands starving in the midst of so much
wealth. When mere extravagant luxuries are less in demand great
masses of labourers will be set free to produce the necessaries and
comforts of life; and these will be more abundant and cheaper (whatever their money price may be), and if all those who are now idle aid in
the production of these necessaries and comforts, it is evident that, with
free exchange, none can want.
I would particularly call attention to the fact that the results here
indicated would be all brought about by carrying out the true system of
laissez-faire now so much abused as if it had failed, when really it has
never been tried. Labour, the sole source of all wealth and well-being,

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
249
has been fettered in all her limbs, and harassed in all her actions, and
then because she often stumbles or faints by the way, they cry, " See,
she cannot do without help! " But first unloose your bonds, and cease
to hamper her with your legal meshes, and then see if she will not
achieve a glorious success. Let Government do its duty, and no more.
Let it secure peace from external foes, and safety from internal violence;
let it give free and speedy justice between man and man; let it secure
to all alike free access to the land and all natural powers; let it abolish
every monopoly of individuals and classes-either the local or central
authority having the management of all institutions or industries which
are essential to the public welfare, but which in private hands tend to
become monopolies; and let it enact that all debts contracted by
individuals shall be payable by those individuals only, and those contracted by the municipality or State be payable by the generation which
contracts them, so that they may never remain a burden on the succeeding generation. When it has done all this, then alone will labour be
really free, and, being free, it will work out the well-being of the whole
community without any Government interference whatever. This is the
true laissez-faire; and this, I believe, will enable us to realize the best
social state which, in its present ph1ase of develonpment, humanity is
capable of. The distant future will take care of itself; let us try to
improve the future that is immediately before us. I have here very
briefly and imperfectly sketched out a series of measures which I believe
are best calculated to promote this object, and they have the great and
inestimable advantage that they all tend to the diminution of governmental interference with labour and industry, instead of that indefinite
increase of it which the German Socialists advocate, and which, as the
greatest political thinkers maintain, and as all experience shows, must
inevitably fail, while in the present condition of civilization it will probably
lead to evils not less grave than those it attempts to cure.
At this time I was in correspondence with Mr. Robert
Miller, a wealthy gentleman of Edinburgh, who had read my
book and had given a donation to our society, but who
wished to give or bequeath a large part of his fortune for the
benefit of the community at large. He was, however, much
disturbed by the conflicting views of writers on the subject,
and though he was much inclined to land nationalization, he
found it to be so strongly opposed by all the recognized
authorities in political economy, as well as by most public
writers and politicians, that he could not make up his mind
what to do. In this uncertain frame of mind he was persuaded
by some of his friends that the best thing he could do would

250
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
be to have a conference of all the leading politicians and
advanced thinkers to discuss the question, "What are the
best means, consistent with justice and equity, for bringing
about a more equal division of the accumulated wealth of the
country, and a more equal division of the daily products of
industry between Capital and Labour, so that it may become
possible for all to enjoy a fair share of material comfort
and intellectual culture, possible for all to lead a dignified
life, and less difficult for all to lead a good life? "
He proposed to devote ~Ciooo for the expenses of the
conference, and the following gentlemen agreed to act as
trustees: Sir Thomas Brassey, Mr. John Burnett, Mr. Thomas
Burt, the Earl of Dalhousie, Professor Foxwell, Mr. Robert
Giffen, and Mr. Frederic Harrison.
But these gentlemen did not adopt the very clear statement of the problem Mr. Miller wished to be enlightened
upon, nor the highly humane and moral object he had in
view, as shown by his own words given above. Instead of
it they adopted a comparatively hard and colourless statement in the following terms: --" s the present system or
manner whereby the products of industry are distributed
between the various persons and classes of the community
satisfactory? Or, zf not, are there any means by which that
system could be improved?" And this was again rendered
still more bald and systematic by being stated under five
heads and ten subdivisions, in the approved manner of the
political economists, so as to limit the questions discussed
to utilities, while excluding as much as possible all questions
of justice or equity, of moral or intellectual advancement.
The conference lasted three days, with morning and afternoon sittings; about one hundred and fifty delegates representing the chief labour associations of the kingdom attended;
and twenty representatives of political and social science,
including myself, were invited to read papers. These papers,
with some valuable statistics in appendices, and a report of
the discussions on the chief papers, were published by Cassell
and Co. in a thick 8vo volume of over 500 pages, entitled
"Industrial Remuneration Conference Report." In the

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
25I
paper which I prepared, I endeavoured to go to the very
heart of the question propounded by Mr. Miller, " How to
cause Wealth to be more equably distributed." It occupies
twenty-four pages of the Report, but I give here an abstract
of it prepared for the newspapers.
HOW TO CAUSE WEALTH TO BE MORE EQUABLY
DISTRIBUTED.
(ABSTRACT.)
As the bulk of the community live on wages, the only means by which
they can obtain a larger proportion of the wealth they produce is by
wages becoming generally higher, and by work being more constant;
and in order that this change may be permanent, and be commensurate
with the evil to be remedied, it must be brought about, not by any form
of charity, or of local or individual action, but by social rearrangements
which will be self-acting and self-sufficing. The fundamental objection
often made that a general rise of wages would interfere with our foreign
commerce was shown to be unsound, and it has been refuted by Mill,
Fawcett, and other political economists.
The cause of low wages was next discussed, and was shown to be due,
not to a superabundance of labourers, but to the fact that the majority
of labourers have nothing but daily wages between themselves and
starvation, under which conditions wages are necessarily driven down to
the minimum on which life can be supported. This absolute dependence
of labourers on daily earnings is at a maximum in great cities where
access to land and to natural products is completely cut off, and it is here
that these earnings sink to their minimum, and at the same time that the
wages of highly skilled labour is at a maximum, the latter phenomenon
being that which is chiefly dwelt on by economists. Illustrative cases
of these low wages were given, and they were shown to be intimately
connected with the existence and continued growth of our great cities.
The diminution of the population of the purely agricultural districts
was next dwelt upon, and it was traced back to the circumstance that the
natural growth and extension of village communities is checked by the
direct action of landlords. Evidence of this fact was adduced from
the writings of Sir George Grey, Mr. Francis Heath, John Bright, Mr.
Thomas Hardy, and the Rev. Stopford Brooke, and its deplorable results
were shown to be a great diminution of food produced in the country,
overcrowding, and intense competition, with incalculable vice and misery
in towns.
The beneficial results of allowing labourers to have land were next
detailed. Evidence was adduced showing the great amount of produce
which is obtained by labourers from allotments, although these are,

252
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
comparatively, disadvantageous both to the labourers themselves and to
society; and they are altogether condemned by John Stuart Mill as
being bad in principle. But in every case in which labourers have been
allowed a few acres of land at a fair rent, and attached to their cottages,
the effects have been most beneficial. Not only have they obtained a
large increase to their means by utilizing labour before wasted, but they
and their families have acquired habits of temperance, industry, and
thrift, so that pauperism and drunkenness have been greatly diminished,
and the population has been elevated, both socially and morally.
In order to extend these beneficial results to the whole community,
the labourer asks for neither charity nor loans, but fair opportunity and
equal justice. It was urged that the necessary capital will be saved by
the more industrious and thrifty labourers when they have before them
the certainty of procuring that dream of their lives, " a homestead of their
very own;" while nothing would so certainly lead to failure as any
extensive system of loans to enable those who have not these essential
virtues to obtain the needful land, stock, and houses without them.
The scheme suggested as most beneficial to labourers and to the
community at large is as follows:(I) In each rural parish four land-assessors to be chosen by the
ratepayers, two to be farmers and two labourers.
(2) Any labourer or mechanic wanting a plot of land shall have it
allotted to him by two of the assessors, one named by himself and one by
the existing occupier of the land, after the parties have met together on
the ground and stated their wishes and objections.
(3) The rent of the land thus allotted to be fairly valued by the
assessors, who will also determine the sum to be paid for improvements,
unexhausted manures, etc., on the land, which last sum must be paid
before obtaining possession.
(4) The rents of the plots thus allotted to be collected by the local
rate-collector, and the amounts, less a percentage for collection, to be
paid to the landlord.
(5) The tenure of the plots to be secure so long as they are personally
occupied, and to be saleable or transferable; while the rents are to be
fixed for long periods, and only raised by a new general valuation in case
the value of the land itself has risen irrespective of all improvements,
which last remain the absolute property of the tenant.
By the method thus sketched out no attack is made on private property, and no new principle in dealing with land is introduced, since
many industrial enterprises calculated chiefly to benefit individuals often
obtain from Parliament the right to take land. It is now only asked that
the same power may be given to the people at large, under strict limitations, and in order to benefit the whole community by bringing about a
more natural distribution of population, and a greater and more varied
production of food and other useful products.
Various popular objections to labourers having land were then
answered, and it was shown that none of them has any force as applied

XXXIv]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
253
to the proposed scheme, the claims and merits of which were summed up
as follows:(i) That it goes to the very root of the matter, since, by rendering a
large number of labourers less dependent on daily wages as their only
means of obtaining food, it would immediately and necessarily raise
the standard of wages; and this is absolutely the only means by which
the labouring classes may at once be enabled more fully to share in the
products of industry.
(2) It does this in the simplest conceivable way, by throwing down
the barriers which now prevent labour from spreading over the land.
(3) It would enable every labourer, by industry and thrift, to realize
his highest aspiration-" a homestead of his own."
(4) It would largely increase the food-supply of the country, especially in dairy produce, poultry, fruit, and vegetables, now to the amount of
thirty-eight millions annually imported from abroad.
(5) It would, by a self-acting, gradual process, withdrawing the congested population of the towns back to the rural districts from which
they have so largely come in recent times, and would at the same time
benefit all who remained by both raising their wages and lowering their
rents.
(6) It would completely settle both the Irish and the Highland land
questions by satisfying the just claims of the labourers and cottiers in
one country, and the crofters in the other, and would open up to human
industry extensive areas of both countries, once cultivated, but now
devoted exclusively to cattle, sheep, or game.
(7) It would also bring about a great moral reform, since all experience proves that the possession of land on a secure tenure is the best
incentive to sobriety, industry, and thrift.
(8) And, lastly, all this can be effected without any financial operation or increased taxation, and with no greater interference with landed
property than is allowed to many of the speculations of capitalists of far
less general utility, and often of none whatever.
Whether the originator of the conference obtained anything worth the thousand pounds expended is doubtful.
There was no independent and judicial summing-up of the
evidence adduced, and the opinions expressed, and the great
variety and contradictory nature of these opinions, often
quite unsupported by any facts, must have left his mind in a
state of greater confusion and uncertainty than before. At
all events, I believe he did not leave any large sum to be
devoted to helping on the cause he had so much at heart.
At the meeting devoted to the land question, at which my
paper and one by Professor Francis W. Newman were read,

254
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
the discussion, instead of being kept to the subject of the two
papers, consisted mainly of a declamatory battle between
the socialists and individualists, both declaring that our
proposals were useless, because they were not in accordance
with those of either party. Mr. A. J. Balfour, however, did
criticize my proposals, declaring, without adducing any evidence, that if labourers all had from one to five acres of land
on a secure tenure, they could not live on it, and would therefore be quite as much dependent on the farmers and obtain
as low wages as when they were quite landless. This amazing
statement was made in the face of the almost life-long experience of Lords Tollemache and Carrington, in four counties,
and of facts adduced in the reports of the latest Royal
Commission on Agriculture, which an M.P. and prospective
Prime Minister ought to have known something about.
Professor J. Shield Nicolson also sent a "Note on Dr.
Wallace's Paper," the chief points being that five-acre lots
would not alleviate agrarian distress in the Highlands-which
I knew quite as well as he did-and more especially that my
simple method of valuation would utterly break down and
satisfy no one, and contending that "nothing but an eloborate
system of law and judicial machinery could make such a plan
tolerable"! He had himself read a paper, with suggestions
for a number of mild ameliorations of the present system,
which, in its essentials, was to remain untouched.
The result was, I think, to show that a conference of opposing parties, each looking at the question from an absolutely
different standpoint, and with no possibility of agreement as
to fundamental principles, cannot lead to any definite conclusion. The method adopted by the Land Nationalization
Society was the only one calculated to produce any definite
results, viz. to lay down certain fundamental principles, capable
of logical demonstration, and by means of an association for
the purpose to educate the public on the subject, both by
argument and by a constant appeal to all facts or experiments which serve to illustrate the evils of the present system
and the benefits of that which we propose to substitute for it.
This has been done both by land nationalizers and socialists

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
25 5
with, on the whole, most satisfactory results. On the one hand,
the socialists are agreed that, as a first step, free access to land,
with a view to its future nationalization, is vitally important;
while on the other hand, the workers no longer say, as they
did at the congress, " Land nationalization will be of no use
to us." This is an important advance in the short space of
twenty years.
Among the few eminent men who joined our movement
was Professor F. W. Newman, and I had the pleasure of
meeting him several times at the house of my friend Mr.
A. C. Swinton, and I also had some correspondence with him;
but there is little in the few letters I have worth quoting.
The following is the concluding paragraph of a letter dated
June 6, i882: "Our duty is to do what we can, in detail; but
the longer I live the less hope I have of justice, without
changes so great in the persons who hold power that it will
be called a revolution. I mean justice, not as to land tenure
only, but as to many other things equally sacred, perhaps
more vital. Until popular indignation rises, I expect no
result; and when it rises it may seem easier to make a clean
sweep than carry a quarter measure.
"Be assured that I look up to you with gratitude.
"F. W. NEWMAN."
Soon after our society was started, Henry George, author
of that remarkable work, " Progress and Poverty," came to
England, and I had the pleasure of making his acquaintance.
He spoke at several of our meetings and elsewhere in London,
as well as in various parts of England and Ireland. He was
a very impressive speaker, and always held his audience.
His delivery was slow and deliberate; so much so as to
appear sometimes as if he had broken down, but he was
always cool and collected, and when the next sentence
came one saw that the pause was made either for the
purpose of choosing the right phrase or of producing a
greater effect. The following passages, in a letter written
from Dublin in November, i88i, soon after his arrival, show

256
M Y LIFE
[CHAP.
how a well-educated and thoughtful American was impressed
by the English rule of Ireland" I had not intended to speak in public before coming to
England; but I feel so much sympathy with the Irish people
in their resistance to the degrading tyranny now rampant
here, that it seems to me cowardly to refuse any little assistance I might give, and I have told some gentlemen who have
been urging me that I will lecture this week for the benefit of
the Political Prisoners' Aid Society, of which Miss Helen
Taylor is President.
" I had the pleasure of meeting that lady here, and the
pleasure of listening to her address to the ladies of the Land
League-a speech that I wished could have rung through the
length and breadth of England. When will the great English
party to whom the future will be given raise its head? I long
for its advent. If this is Liberalism which I see here, what
Toryism may be I can with difficulty imagine.
" I have had the pleasure, too, of meeting an Irish Catholic
bishop who is with us entirely-Bishop Nulty, of Meath-a
prelate who does not hesitate to declare that private property
in land is an injurious blasphemy. He is fettered to some
extent, of course, but he wields great influence, and we shall
hear from him before this thing is over."
The lady above referred to, step-daughter of John Stuart
Mill, was an earnest land-nationalizer and a valued supporter
of our society. She was always ready to speak at our meetings; she supported us liberally by donations and subscriptions, and she gave to our public proceedings that tone of
sympathy, humanity, and idealistic enthusiasm which was
of great importance to us.
Among my early correspondents on the land question
were Mr. Jesse Collings and Mr. J. Boyd-Kinnear, both afterwards M.P.'s. The latter gentleman was so much interested
in my writings on this and allied questions, that he invited
me and my wife to visit him at Guernsey, where he was then
living. We spent a delightful week on that beautiful island,
either driving or walking over it. Mr. Boyd-Kinnear was a
practical farmer and agricultural chemist, and had a small

XXXIV]

LAND NATIONALIZATION

257

farm close to the town of St. Pierre, with the usual large

vinery under glass. While here, we thoroughly discussed the

land and other questions, and though I could not quite convert

him, we agreed generally in our political and social heresies.

Among the most esteemed of the friends I owed to " Land

Nationalization," were two eminent Scotchmen, both poets,

and both ardent lovers of justice and humanity-Professor J.

Stuart Blackie and Charles Mackay. The former wrote to

me in July, 1882, saying that he had just finished the

" careful study" of my " Land Nationalization," and that he

was "happy to find it so much in accordance with my oldest

and most mature speculations, and-what is of more importance-observations on the subject." He sent me a copy of

his small volume, " Alteriora," with a chapter on the " Sutherland Clearances," and he concluded, "As to your remedy for

the gigantic evils which our present system of land laws

entail, they recommend themselves strongly to every consistent thinker."

Both he and I suffered some inconvenience from having

mentioned the name of the agent who carried out the terrible

Sutherland evictions in the first two decades of the nineteenth

century, as it is given in all the early narratives, as well as in

the report of the trial of the agent for arson and murder,

when, of course, he was acquitted. His sons were at that

time alive, and protested against the publication. Both our

publishers were frightened. Professor Blackie withdrew his

book, and published a second edition much cut down. I

placed mine in the hands of a new publisher, and I promised

that in a new edition I would omit the name of the agent, but

refused to make any alterations in the statements of facts.

Three years later (in December, 1885), when I was lecturing in Edinburgh, I had the great pleasure of meeting Professor Blackie. I was staying with the late Mr. Robert Cox,

at whose house the professor was an intimate. He called

soon after I arrived, and on hearing my name, he cordially

embraced me (in the continental fashion) as one with whom

he was in complete sympathy, and then threw himself upon

VOL. II.              S

258
MY LIFE
LCHAP.
the rug to talk to Mrs. Cox. Afterwards I had a long conversation with him on all the subjects that interested us most,
and was delighted with his geniality no less than with his
intense human sympathy, especially in the case of the cruelly
disinherited Highlanders.
Although I had for many years been a great admirer of
Charles Mackay's Songs and Poems, and that I was quite
near him while we lived at Dorking, from August, 1876, to
March, 1878, I did not make his acquaintance till some years
afterwards, as, owing to my constitutional shyness, I do not
think I ever made the first overtures to any man, or even
called upon any one without some previous correspondence
or introduction. But several years later I sent him a copy
of my "Land Nationalization" (I think probably on the
suggestion of some one who knew him), with a letter begging
his acceptance of it. This brought me three letters in rapid
succession-one acknowledging it, saying he had been very
ill for six months, but adding that he had been an adherent
of our cause for forty years, and referring me to his poem,
"Lament of Cona for the Unpeopling of the Highlands."
Five days later he wrote again, saying"I have read every line of your admirable volume on
'Land Nationalization' with the greatest interest and profit.
I agree with every one of your arguments, which are all
incontrovertible, and not only lucidly, but triumphantly
placed before the reader. They must convince and make
converts of every unprejudiced person who will attentively
study them with the sole view of arriving at the truth." He
then refers to his own writings in the same direction of forty
years before, naming "The Cry of the People "-and there
are many others-concluding, " I am afraid that age and illhealth will not allow me to labour much further in the cause;
but what I can do, I will do. If my name is of any use to
your society, you are free to it.
"Believe me, with the highest esteem and regard,
"Yours most cordially,
"CHARLES MACKAY,"

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
259
The next day he wrote me again, and as this contains
matter of wide public interest, and points to a legal public
right which has been, and may still be enforced, I here
give it" I omitted in my letter of yesterday to mention a fact,
which, if you are unaware of it, may possibly be of interest
to you. It is recalled to my mind by the remarks in your
book (pages I28, 129) on the closing of large tracts of
country, by selfish and tyrannical Highland proprietors, for
the purpose of creating solitudes for the cultivation and preservation of deer. The practice is clearly illegal, in contravention of an old, and unrepealed Scottish law, entitled
' Free Foot in the Wilderness.' Many years ago, when I
was editor of the Glasgow Argus, I fought the Duke of Athol
in its columns, and appealed to the law, not without success,
in the famous Glen Tilt case. I wrote some stinging verses
about his grace on the occasion, entitled 'Baron Braemar,'
which had a considerable spurt of popularity --which the
Queen read, and of which she expressed her approval (and
agreement) to her physician, Sir James Clark, an old friend
of mine, who told me about it. The Glen was thrown open
for a time, but, I believe, has been closed up again with as
much rigour as ever."
In the following year he removed to London for good
medical attendance, and wrote me a very flattering letter
after reading my "Malay Archipelago." The next year
(I886) I was able to call on him when in London for a day,
at his apartments in Longridge Road, South Kensington,
when we had a long talk, and he afterwards wrote to me as
" My dear friend and philosopher." On the occasion of this
visit he introduced me to his step-daughter, Miss Marie
Corelli, a very pleasant young lady, whose future eminence
as a writer I did not divine.
Charles Mackay is, apparently, hardly classed as a poet,
since in Chambers's " Biographical Dictionary " he is spoken
of as a song-writer; and a modern poet to whom I once
mentioned him was ignorant of his existence. Some know
him only by his " Emigrant " songs, which were set to music

260
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
by Henry Russell, and are often thought to have been
composed by him. These songs have a charm and a music
in the sentiments and the rhythm, which owe nothing to the
music. What can be more inspiring than the last lines of
"Cheer, Boys! Cheer!""Here we had toil and little to reward it,
But there shall plenty smile upon our pain,
And ours shall be the mountain and the forest,
And boundless prairies ripe with golden grain."
Or the first verse of " To the West ""To the West! to the West! to the land of the free,
Where mighty Missouri rolls down to the sea,
Where a man is a man if he's willing to toil,
And the humblest may gather the fruits of the soil.
Where children are blessings, and he who hath most,
Hath aid for his fortune and riches to boast;
Where the young may exult, and the aged may rest,
Away, far away, to the Land of the West! "
Every fact, every hope in these songs were literally true
when they were written, as contemporary American literature
clearly shows, but the growth of capitalism and land
monopoly during the last thirty years has rendered them
almost a mockery.
Mackay had not the magic of words and phrases, or the
deep idealism which characterize the highest poetry, and
could not therefore rank with Tennyson, William Watson,
Lowell, or Edwin Markham; but he was the equal of Longfellow or Scott, and perhaps superior to both in the infinitely
varied matter of his verse. His ballads and stories were
unsurpassed for vigour and originality of treatment-such as
his "Invasion of Scotland by the Northmen," his "Thor's
Hammer," and his " Lament of Cona for the Unpeopling of
the Highlands;" while " The Man in the Dead Sea," "The
Interview," "The Building of the House," "We are Wiser
than we Know," and "Eternal Justice" deal with some of
those grand problems in the elucidation of which the poet
is so often the seer. At my request he wrote for us some

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
26i
verses on the land question, which, as they are not included
in any edition of his poems, I give here.
FREE LAND FOR A FREE PEOPLE.
" Thank God for the Sunshine, the Air, and the Sea,
For the Rain and the Dew, ever free to the free!
No landlords can parcel them out, or conspire
To sell them, or tax them, or let them on hire;
And close up with barriers what Nature design'd,
In mercy and love for the needs of Mankind!
" There's a break in the clouds-there's a gleam in the sky,
There's a beautiful star shining brightly on high,
That heralds the dawn of the long-promised day,
When Right shall be Might, and shall flourish for aye;
When Man in the strength of his manhood shall stand,
To enjoy, and possess, and replenish the land.
"With our faces to heaven and our feet on the sod,
We swear by the faith that we cherish in GodBy the breeze of the sky, by the light of the sun,
That the Land shall be ours, and that Right shall be done.
Hear it, ye Tyrants, that hold us in thrall!
God the great Giver gives freely to All! "
CHARLES MACKAY.
Yet another of our true poets, but also one who is
comparatively unappreciated, Gerald Massey, is also one
of our friends and supporters; and he, too, has been so kind
as to embody his thoughts in the following energetic verses
for our benefit:THE EARTH FOR ALL.
"Thus saith the Lord-You weary me
With prayers, and waste your own short years:
Eternal truth you cannot see
Who weep, and shed your sight in tears.
In vain you wait and watch the skies,
No better fortune thus will fall;
Up from your knees I bid you rise,
And claim the Earth for all.
"They eat up Earth, and promise you
The Heaven of an empty shell.
'Tis theirs to say: 'tis yours to do,
On pain of everlasting hell.

262
MY LIFE
rCHAP,
They rob and leave you helplessly,
For help of Heaven to cry and call:
Heaven did not make your misery,
When Earth was given for all!
"Behold in bonds your Mother Earth!
The rich man's prostitute and slave!
Your Mother Earth that gave you birth,
You only own her for a grave.
And will you die like slaves, and see
Your Mother left a bounden thrall;
Or live like men to set her free
As Heritage for all?"
GERALD MASSEY.
Here we have the same idea expressed in different forms
by two of our sweetest singers; and it is to be specially
noted that they are both much more than poets; while
Gerald Massey has mastered one of the most difficult of
modern studies-Egyptology-on which he has published
two very bulky works; and even the specialists, who reject
some of his conclusions, admit that his presentation of the
facts shows an enormous amount of research.
Another of our supporters from an early date was Grant
Allen, a man of the very highest talents, who, had he not
been compelled by circumstances to write novels, reviews,
and magazine articles for a living, would probably have
become one of our greatest philosophical naturalists and
expounders of evolution. But, like myself, he was more than
a land nationalizer, and my first knowledge of his political
and social views was derived from an article he wrote on the
condition of India somewhere about I880. Through my
friend, the late Sir David Wedderburn, I had become aware
of the terrible defects of our government of that country
owing to the ever-increasing influence of European planters,
manufacturers, and capitalists; and I was also a reader of
The Statesman, a paper brought out by a gentleman who had
been for many years editor of one of the most advanced
Calcutta newspapers, and who established it for the purpose of
letting Englishman know the real facts as to the government

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
263
of India. All the statements in this paper were founded
upon Government Reports or other official documents, referred
to in detail. I knew, therefore, that Grant Allen's views as
stated in this paper were correct, and therefore wrote to tell
him how pleased I was to find that he was not only interested
in physical science, as was so often the case with my scientific
friends. His reply is so interesting that I will here give the
more important parts of it:" As to your remarks about the wrong actually perpetrated
by us in India, I know only too much about that question.
For three years I was employed by W. W. Hunter, DirectorGeneral of Statistics for India, in collecting and working up
the district accounts and other materials in his possession.
Not to put too fine a point upon it, Dr. Hunter is the literary
whitewasher of the Indian Government. In working up the
abundant reports and other documents submitted to me, I
had plenty of opportunities for realizing what English rule
really meant. In the ruin wrought by our land settlements
especially, I collected a large number of facts and statistics;
and I offered John Morley to work them into a paper on
'The Indian Cultivator and his Wrongs;' but Morley did
not care for the subject. The fact is, nobody in England
wishes to move in the matter. I sent Knowles a paper two
years ago about the same subject, dealing especially with the
Ganges Canal-a vast blunder, bolstered up by cunningly
contrived balance-sheets, in which deficits are concealed as
fresh investments; but he would not take it. I only got
this article into the Contemporary by leaving out India, and
looking at the question from a purely English point of view.
I'm afraid the fact can't be blinked that most Englishmen
don't mind oppression as long as the oppressed people are
only blacks. A startling outrage, like the Zulu War, wakes
them up for a moment; but chronic and old-standing sores,
like India or Barbadoes, do not affect them."
Neither do "chronic and old-standing sores" at home
affect them. The slums, slow starvation, murder and suicide
from want, one-third of our population living without a
sufficiency of the bare necessaries for a healthy life-food

264

MY LIFE

[CHAP.

clothing, warmth, and rest; while another third, comprising

together those who create the wealth of the nation, have not

the amount of relaxation or the certainty of a comfortable

old age which, in a country deserving to be called civilized,

every human being should enjoy. This, however, is a step

or two beyond land nationalization, before leaving which I

must refer to one application of its principles which any

Government declaring itself to be "Liberal" ought at once

to make law. I call itSECURITY OF THE  HOME.

It is an old boast that an Englishman's house is his castle, but never

was a boast less justified by facts. In a large number of cases a working

man's house might be better described as an instrument of torture, by

means of which he can be forced to comply with his landlord's demands,

and both in politics and religion submit himself entirely to the landlord's

will. So long as the agricultural labourer, the village mechanic, and the

village shopkeeper are the yearly or weekly tenants of the great landowner, the squire, the parson, or the farmer, religious freedom or political

independence is impossible. And when those employed in factories or

workshops are obliged to live, as they so often are, in houses which are

the property of their employers, that employer can force his will upon

them by the double threat of loss of employment and loss of a home.

Under such conditions a man possesses neither freedom nor safety, nor

the possibility of happiness, except so far as his landlord and employer

thinks proper. A secure home is the very first essential of political

security and of social well-being.

Now, all this has been said many times before, and we may go on

saying it, and yet be no nearer to a remedy for the evil. But now that

every worker, even to the hitherto despised and down-trodden agricultural

labourer, has been given the right of some fragment of local self-government, it is time that, so far as affects the inviolability of the home, the

landlord's power should at once be taken away from him. This is the

logical sequence of the creation of Parish Councils. For to declare that

it is for the public benefit that every inhabitant of a parish shall be free

to vote for and to be chosen as a representative of his fellow-parishioners,

and at the same time to leave him at the mercy of the individual who

owns his house to punish him in a most cruel manner for using the

privileges thus granted him, is surely the height of unreason and injustice.

It is giving a stone in place of bread; the shadow rather than the substance

of political enfranchisement.

Now, it seems to me that there is one very simple and very effectual

way of rendering tenants secure, and that is by a short Act of Parliament

declaring all evictions, other thanfor non-payment of rent, to be illegal.

XXXIV]
LAND NATIONALIZATION
265
And to prevent the landlord from driving away a tenant by raising his rent
to an exorbitant amount, all alterations of rent must be approved of as
reasonable by a committee of the Parish or District Councils, and be
determined on the application of either the tenant or the landlord. Of
course, at the first letting of a house or small holding, the landlord could
ask what rent he pleased, and if it was exorbitant he would get no tenant.
But having once let it, the tenant should be secure as long as he wished
to occupy it, and the rent should not be raised, except as allowed by
some competent tribunal. No doubt a claim will be made on behalf of
the landlords for a compulsory tenancy on the part of the occupier; that
is, that if the tenant has security of occupation, the landlord should have
equally security of having a tenant. But the two cases are totally different.
Eviction from his home may be, and often is, ruinous loss and misery to
the tenant, who is therefore, to avoid such loss, often compelled to submit
to the landlord's will. But who ever heard of a tenant, by the threat of
giving notice to quit, compelling his landlord to vote against his conscience,
or to go to chapel instead of to church! The tenant needs protection,
the landlord does not.'
The same results might also be gained (and perhaps more surely) by
giving the Parish and District Councils power to take over all houses
whose tenants are threatened with eviction, or with an unfair increase of
rent; and that will come some day. But the plan of giving a legal
permanent tenure to every tenant is so simple, so obviously reasonable
and so free from all interference with the fair money-value of the landlord's property, that, with a little energy and persistent agitation, it might
possibly be carried in a few years. Such an Act might be more or less
in the following form:-" Whereas the security and inviolability of the
HOME is an essential condition of political freedom and social well-being,
it is hereby enacted, that no tenant shall hereafter be evicted from his
house or homestead for any other cause than nonpayment of rent, and
every heir or successor of such tenant shall be equally secure so long as
the rent is paid." A second clause would provide for a permanently fair
rent.
This formed part of my address to the Land Naticnalization Society at its annual meeting in I895, and one would
have thought that some Liberal or Radical or Labour Member
would have made an effort to get so small yet so far-reaching
and beneficial a measure discussed in the House of Commons.
But no notice whatever was taken of the suggestion, and we
have had for the succeeding ten years, and have to-day, cases
of punishment by eviction for political or religious opinions.
It is true that it is but a small and isolated portion of the
1 The late Lord Tollemache voluntarily recognized this, and gave his tenantfarmers leases for twenty-one years, determinable at their pleasure, but not at his.

266
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
much greater reform that we advocate, but, unlike most small
measures, it goes directly to the root of a shameful oppression,
and would do more to elevate the very poor and prepare the
way for real reform than many whole sessions of even "liberal"
legislation.
For about ten years after I first publicly advocated land
nationalization I was inclined to think that no further fundamental reforms were possible or necessary. Although I had,
since my earliest youth, looked to some form of socialistic
organization of society, especially in the form advocated by
Robert Owen as the ideal of the future, I was yet so much
influenced by the individualistic teachings of Mill and
Spencer, and the loudly proclaimed dogma, that without the
constant spur of individual competition men would inevitably
become idle and fall back into universal poverty, that I did
not bestow much attention upon the subject, having, in fact,
as much literary work on hand as I could manage. But at
length, in I889, my views were changed once for all, and I
have ever since been absolutely convinced, not only that
socialism is thoroughly practicable, but that it is the only
form of society worthy of civilized beings, and that it
alone can secure for mankind continuous mental and moral
advancement, together with that true happiness which
arises from the full exercise of all their faculties for the
purpose of satisfying all their rational needs, desires, and
aspirations.
The book that thus changed my outlook on this question
was Bellamy's "Looking Backward," a work that in a few
years had gone through seventeen editions in America, but
had only just been republished in England. On a first reading I was captivated by the wonderfully realistic style of the
work, the extreme ingenuity of the conception, the absorbing
interest of the story, and the logical power with which the
possibility of such a state of society as that depicted was
argued and its desirability enforced. Every sneer, every
objection, every argument I had ever read against socialism
was here met and shown to be absolutely trivial or altogether

XXXIV]
SOCIALISM
267
baseless, while the inevitable results of such a social state in
giving to every human being the necessaries, the comforts, the
harmless luxuries, and the highest refinements and social
enjoyments of life were made equally clear. As the mere
story had engrossed much of my attention, I read the whole
book through again to satisfy myself that I had not overlooked any flaw in the reasoning, and that the conclusion was
as clearly demonstrated as it at first sight appeared to be.
Even as a story I found it bore a second almost immediate
perusal, a thing I never felt inclined to give any book before
(except, I think, in the case of Herbert Spencer's "Social
Statics"), and during the succeeding year I read it a third
time, in order to refresh my memory on certain suggestions
which seemed to me especially admirable.
From this time I declared myself a socialist, and I made
the first scientific application of my conviction in an article on
"Human Selection" in the Fortnightly Review (September,
I89o), in which I showed how such a state as socialism
postulates would result in the solution of two great problems,
(I) that of gradually reducing the rate of increase of the
population through a later period of marriage, and (2) by
setting up a process of sexual selection which would steadily
eliminate the physically imperfect and the socially and
morally unfit. This article called forth several expressions
of approval, which I highly value. It forms the last chapter
of vol. i. of my " Studies, Scientific and Social."
I now read several other books on socialism, such as
Mr. Kirkup's "Enquiry into Socialism," an admirable rlsumn,
generally favourable; William Morris's "News from Nowhere,"
a charming poetical dream, but as a picture of society almost
absurd, since nobody seems to work except at odd times
when they feel the inclination, and no indication is given of
any organization of labour. Gronlund's " Our Destiny" is a
beautiful and well-reasoned essay on the influence of socialism
on morals and religion, and his "Co-operative Commonwealth," an exposition of constructive socialism, which has
given us in its title the shortest and most accurate definition
of what socialism really is. "A Cityless and Countryless

268
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
World," by Henry Olerich, an American writer, is an
excellent exposition of an extreme form of what he calls
co-operative individualism, which is really voluntary socialism;
and I may here state for the benefit of those ignorant writers
who believe that socialism must be compulsory, and speak of
it as a "form of slavery," that my own definition of socialism
is "the voluntary organization of labour for the good of
all." All the best and most thoughtful writers on socialism
agree in this; and for my own part I cannot conceive it
coming about in any other way. Compulsory socialism is
to me a contradiction in terms-as much so as would be compulsory friendship. The only modern work I have met with
that advocates compulsion in initiating socialism is Mr. F. W.
Hayes's "Great Revolution of I905," a very clever book,
but hopelessly out of tune with the socialist ideal by the
ruthless compulsion and punishment of the opponents of the
supposed social revolution.
Among books which deal rather with the evils of the
present system than with constructive socialism, but which
nevertheless give eloquent expression to its fundamental
ideas and aspirations, I may mention "Darkness and Dawn,
the Peaceful Birth of a New Age"-an anonymous work
which, in its terrible description of the horrors of the
factory system in all its forms and ramifications, is unsurpassed in our language; and Robert Blatchford's "Merrie
England," issued first at a shilling, then at fourpence, then at
a penny, and of which three quarters of a million copies were
sold in about a year.
But the most complete and thoroughly reasoned exposition, both of the philosophy and the constructive methods of
socialism, is to be found in Bellamy's later work, " Equality,"
which comparatively few, even of English socialists, are
acquainted with. The book is a sequel to " Looking Backward," and contains more than twice the matter. It shows,
systematically, how our existing system of competition and
individual profit-capitalism and enormous private wealthdirectly lead to overwork, poverty, starvation, and crime;
that it is necessarily wasteful in production and cruelly

XXXIV]
SOCIALISM
269
unjust in distribution; that it fosters every kind of adulteration
in manufacture, and almost necessitates lying in trade;
that it involves the virtual slavery of the bulk of the
population, and checks or destroys any real progress of the
race. It also shows how, even the wealthy few, and also
the members of each successive grade of comparative wellbeing, suffer from it socially, by the extreme restriction in
each locality of possible intimate associates and friends; it
shows how we can never attain to the maximum benefits
and enjoyment of social intercourse without that absolute
equality of economic condition, educational opportunities,
and social conventions, which alone put us at ease with our
fellow-men; while the enormous loss to all of us of the
infinite varieties of character, ability, and even genius, now
forbidden any adequate development by the cruel struggle
for existence and the shortened lives, are clearly set forth.
And as every one of the wasteful and cruel and debasing
influences of our competitive system will cease to exist under
a rational socialism, labour will be diminished to an almost
inconceivable extent, while every possible enjoyment of
nature, of art, and of congenial friendship will be indefinitely
increased. Until these two works of Bellamy have been
carefully read and thoroughly appreciated, no one can
properly realize what such a state of society means; while
to any one who has done so, the stock objections to socialism
will be seen to be utterly trivial and absurd.
One of the most striking and convincing chapters in
"Equality" is that which describes the means by which,
after a majority were in favour of it, and a Socialist Government had been elected, the great change was brought about,
and, without any compulsion whatever, was soon welcomed
and accepted by the adverse minority. This method is so
simple, and so little known, that it may be well to give a
brief outline of it here.
It is assumed that, before this period, there had already
been a great extension of governmental and municipal
industry, all the railways and mines, telegrams and telephones being worked by the former; all water, gas, electric

270
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
light and power, trams, etc., by the latter. The employees
in these, together with all persons connected with the courts,
the police, the revenue, and other Government offices, with
their families, would comprise a population of several million
persons paid by and dependent on general or local governments. The first important step taken is the opening of
Government stores to supply all these persons with food,
clothing, and other necessaries of life at cost price, and of
the best quality, absolutely free from adulteration, just as
Robert Owen did for his people at New Lanark. As the
numbers to be supplied would be exactly known, as no
advertisements would be needed beyond simple price-lists,
and as there need be no attractive shops in great thoroughfares at high rents, these necessaries could always be supplied
at 25 per cent., and often at 50 per cent. below actual retail
prices of the time. Robert Owen at New Lanark, with the
comparatively small population of 2500 people, was able to
supply goods of similar character at about 30 per cent. below
shop prices. As this would be equivalent to an increase of
earnings by all these employees, all other socialists, whose
votes had brought the Government into power, asked for
similar benefits, which were, of course, given them. Then an
extension was made to the manufacture of the most important
articles, such as metal goods of all kinds, china and glass, all
the commoner textile fabrics, furniture, house-building, etc.,
so that in the course of a few years every necessary and
comfort of life would be obtainable by all socialists at the
Government stores, at low prices and of the very best quality.
At the same time, the health of all these employees would be
safeguarded by every available sanitary appliance and rule;
hours of work would be shortened in proportion to the
fatigue or the monotony of the labour, and everything possible
would be done to make the worker's life a healthy and
enjoyable one. And as all these things would be done at
their own expense, since all the products of labour would be
sold at the price they cost to make and distribute, the nonsocialists could not possibly complain, as they would not be
called upon to bear any of the expense, but would have to

XXXIV]
SOCIALISM
27I
go on purchasing the adulterated and costly products of
private competition and capitalism as before.
Is it not a fair supposition which Bellamy makes, that at
this stage of progress all the workers, all the wage-earners
and employees of the private capitalists would beg to be taken
into Government employment so as to share in the well-being
of their socialist fellow-workmen? The result would be
that, gradually and successively, all industry would become
organized under the local authorities in co-operation with the
various central stores and manufactories. During this process of extension private capitalists would find it more and
more difficult to obtain skilled labour of any kind. They
would then find that their former boasted "capital" was
not the chief factor in the production of wealth; that though
they might have money, they would not possess wealth. The
Government stores would, of course, be used by socialists only,
by means of a system of tickets or paper money, as described
by Bellamy; capitalists and their managers would gradually
have to join the socialist ranks as organizers or superintendents if they had the capacity, or if they preferred to live
idle lives they might go to other countries where the competitive rEgime still prevailed. It may, of course, be said
that this would not succeed; that the Government could not
compete with private capitalists, manufacturers, and shopkeepers. But few people who really think of the matter will
believe this. The American Trusts do succeed in competition
with the whole world, because they possess some of the
advantages a Government would possess in a still greater
degree. But they result in small traders beggared and
workers no longer wanted, and in the production of a hundred or more of multi-millionaires. If a socialist regime
cannot, in the nature of things, succeed, why are all the great
capitalists so dreadfully afraid of allowing any approach to
a fair trial of it by municipalities or other local authorities?
After much consideration, however, I have come to the
conclusion that this will not (probably) be the way in which
socialism will come about in England, and that it would not
be the easiest or the best way. I think it more likely that

272
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
we shall pass through a stage of true "individualism," in
which complete " equality of opportunity " will be established.
I have sufficiently explained this in my "Studies," vol. ii.
chap. xxviii.; and if to this we add the broad scheme of
general education outlined by Mr. John Richardson in his
admirable little book, ".How it can be done," we shall have
prepared the way for the rational society of the future.
Equality of opportunity is, as Herbert Spencer has shown
in his "Justice," the correlative of natural selection in human
society, and has thus a broad foundation in the laws of
nature. But Spencer himself did not follow out his principles
to their logical conclusion as I have done.
Many good people to-day who are almost horror-struck
at hearing that any one they know is a socialist, would be
still more amazed if they knew how many of the very salt of
the earth belong (or did belong) to this despised and much
dreaded body of thinkers. Grant Allen, one of the most
intellectual and many-sided men of our time, was one of us;
so is Sir Oliver Lodge, one of our foremost students of
physical science; and Professor Karl Pearson, a great mathematical evolutionist. Among the clergy we have the Revs.
John Clifford, R. C. Fillingham, and many others among the
Christian socialists, who are as much socialists as any of us.
Among men of university training or of high literary ability
we have H. M. Hyndman, Edward Carpenter, J. A. Hobson,
Sydney Webb, Hubert Bland, H. S. Salt, J. C. Kenworthy,
Morrison-Davidson, and many others. Of poets there are
Gerald Massey and Sir Lewis Morris. The labour members
of Parliament are almost all socialists; while Margaret
Macmillan, the Countess of Warwick, and many less known
women are earnest workers for the cause.
I should almost think that Mrs. Humphry Ward was a
socialist at heart or as an ideal, or she could not have set
forth its principles and the arguments for it so well as she
has done in "Marcella." But the weak and illogical conclusion of that and some other books caused me to write to
Grant Allen, urging him to write a thorough socialistic story,

XXXIV]

SOCIALI SM

273

which I felt sure he could do better than any one I knew.

His reply was so interesting from a literary point of view

that I give it here. It is the last letter I received from him.

" Hotel Royal, Varenna, Italy, April 24.

"I despair of giving you in writing all the reasons why

your suggestion is for me an impossible one. There are

eleven thousand; I will content myself with two. The first

is practical. I have to write stories which editors will accept

and the public will buy. Now, no editor will take a socialistic

story-I have tried, and failed; and the public will not buy

such stories to a sufficient extent to pay for the trouble. As

a general rule, the more in earnest I am about a subject, the

less I get for it. The second reason is artistic. A story grows

out of a plot or situation, and cannot be forced in the way

you describe, as I at least do not know how to force it.

Plots come. I could not invent a plot in order to sustain a

particular thesis. Thank you so much for the many kind

expressions in your letter. Come and see us some day on

Hind Head, when you are passing up or down, and we will

thrash this matter out more fully.

"With very kind regards,

"Cordially yours,

"GRANT ALLEN."

I do not know to what he alludes when he says he " has

tried and failed." " The Woman who Did " was not socialistic, and I can only suppose he refers to a short story of life

in a phalanstery, where all children in the least deformed are

killed at one year old, for the improvement of the race; and

the feelings of the mother for her first-born are vividly

described, though, as the law was absolute and known from

childhood, it was submitted to uncomplainingly But

neither of these stories had any necessary connection with

socialism, and were especially repugnant to our customs

and ideals. But there is nothing whatever repugnant in

socialism itself, and I cannot believe that a story by a

well-known and talented writer would be unsaleable merely

VOL. II.                  T

274         MY LIFE  [CHAP. XXXIV]

because its field of action was a successful socialistic

community.

I may conclude this chapter with the answer I recently

gave to the question, "Why I am a Socialist?" I am a

socialist because I believe that the highest law for mankind

is justice. I therefore take for my motto, "Fiat Justicia

Ruat Ccelum;" and my definition of socialism is, "The use

by every one of his faculties for the common good, and the

voluntary organization of labour for the equal benefit of all."

That is absolute social justice; that is ideal socialism. It

is, therefore, the guiding star for all true social reform.

CHAPTER XXXV
MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM-CORRESPONDENCE WITI
SCIENTIFIC AND LITERARY MEN
I HAVE already described my first introduction to mesmerism
at Leicester, how I found that I had considerable mesmeric
power myself, and could produce all the chief phenomena on
some of my patients; while I also satisfied myself that almost
universal opposition and misrepresentations of the medical
profession were founded upon a combination of ignorance and
prejudice. I will here only add that my brother Herbert
also possessed the power, and that when we were residing
together at Manaos, he used to call up little Indian boys out
of the street, give them a copper, and by a little gazing and
a few passes send them into the trance state, and then produce all the curious phenomena of catalepsy, loss of sensation,
etc., which I have already described. This was interesting
because it showed that the effects could be produced without
any expectation on the part of the patients, and, further, that
similar phenomena followed as in Europe, although these
boys had certainly no knowledge of such phenomena. One
day, I remember, when we were going out collecting, we
entered an Indian's hut, where we had often been before,
and my brother quietly began mesmerizing a young man
nearly his own age. He did not entrance him, but obtained
enough influence to render his arm rigid. This he instantly
relaxed, and asked the Indian to lie down on the floor, which
he did. My brother then made a pass along his body, and
said, " Lie there till we return." The man tried to rise but
could not, though several of his relatives were present. We
275

276
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
then walked out, he crying and begging to be loosed.
Thinking he would certainly overcome the influence we went
on, and coming back about two hours later we found the
man still on the ground, declaring he could not get up. On
a pass from my brother and his saying, "Now get up," he
rose easily. We gave him a small present, but he did not
seem much surprised or disturbed, evidently thinking we
were white medicine-men. Here, again, it seemed to me
pretty certain that the induced temporary paralysis was a
reality, and by no means due to the imagination of the
usually stolid Indian.
During my eight years' travels in the East I heard occasionally, through the newspapers, of the strange doings of the
spiritualists in America and England, some of which seemed
to me too wild and outrt to be anything but the ravings of
madmen. Others, however, appeared to be so well authenticated that I could not at all understand them, but concluded,
as most people do at first, that such things must be either
imposture or delusion. How I became first acquainted with
the phenomena and the effect they produced upon me are fully
described in the " Notes of Personal Evidence," in my book
on " Miracles and Modern Spiritualism," to which I refer my
readers. I will only state here that I was so fortunate as to
be able to see the simpler phenomena, such as rapping and
tapping sounds and slight movements of a table in a friend's
house, with no one present but his family and myself, and
that we were able to test the facts so thoroughly as to
demonstrate that they were not produced by the physical
action of any one of us. Afterwards, in my own house,
similar phenomena were obtained scores of times, and I was
able to apply tests which showed that they were not caused
by any one present. A few years later I formed one of the
committee of the Dialectical Society, and again witnessed,
under test conditions, similar phenomena in great variety,
and in these three cases, it must be remembered, no paid
mediums were present, and every means that could be suggested of excluding trickery or the direct actions of any one
present were resorted to.

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
277
At a later period I paid frequent visits, always with some
one or more of my friends as sceptical and as earnest inquirers
after fact as myself, to one of the best public mediums for
physical phenomena I have ever met with-Mrs. Marshall
and her daughter-in-law. We here made whatever investigations we pleased, and tried all kinds of tests. We always sat
in full daylight in a well-lighted room, and obtained a variety
of phenomena of a very startling kind, as narrated in the
book referred to. During the latter part of my residence in
London (I865-70) I had numerous opportunities of seeing
phenomena with other mediums in various private houses in
London. These were sometimes with private, sometimes with
paid mediums, but always under such conditions as to render
any kind of collusion or imposture altogether out of the
question. During this time I was in frequent communication
with Sir William Crookes, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Serjeant
Cox, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. S. C.
Hall, Professor and Mrs. de Morgan, Mr. W. Volckman, Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, Dr. and Mrs. Edmunds, William Howitt,
Mrs. Catherine Berry, and many other friends, who were
either interested in or were actively investigating the subject;
and through the kindness of several of them I had many
opportunities of witnessing some of the more extraordinary
of the phenomena under the most favourable conditions. At
a much later period, when I visited America on a lecturing
tour, I made the acquaintance of some of the most eminent
spiritualists in Boston and Washington, and had many opportunities of seeing phenomena and obtaining tests of a different
kind from any that I had seen in England; and some of these
I may refer to later on. What I propose to do now is to
give a consecutive outline of my correspondence with some
of my scientific and literary friends on this subject, which
will, I think, have some historical interest now that investigations into physical phenomena are not treated in the same
utterly contemptuous way they were in the early period of
my inquiries.
When I had obtained in my own house the phenomena

278
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
described in my "Notes of Personal Evidence," I felt sure
that if any of my scientific friends could witness them they
would be satisfied that they were not due to trickery, and
were worthy of a careful examination. I therefore first
invited Dr. W. B. Carpenter to attend some of our sittings,
telling him that I could not guarantee anything without a
series of, say, half a dozen visits. He came one evening, the
only other persons present being the medium-Miss Nicholmy sister, and myself. After a short time a few raps were
heard on the table, and these were repeated, sometimes in
different tones, and sounding, at request, in any part of the
table. They were not, however, strong, and soon came to
an end. Dr. Carpenter sat quite still, and made hardly any
remark. He knew from my statements that this was a mere
nothing to what often occurred, and though I strongly urged
him to come at least two or three times more, I never could
prevail upon him to come again.
I then tried to get Professor Tyndall to take up the
subject seriously, giving him an account of the results I had
obtained, the tests I had applied, and the general conditions
that seemed favourable or unfavourable. He replied in a
letter which I now have before me, and as it shows how
difficult it then was to get any man of eminence to keep an
open mind on this subject, I think it worth reproducing.
'MY DEAR WALLACE,
"Your sincerity and desire for the pure truth are
perfectly manifest. If I know myself; I am in the same vein.
I would ask one question.
"Supposing I join you, will you undertake to make the
effects evident to my senses? Will you allow me to reject
all testimony, no matter how solemn or respectable? Will
you allow me to touch the effects with my own hands, see
them with my own eyes, and hear them with my own ears?
Will you, in short, permit me to act towards your phenomena
as I act, and successfully act, in other departments of
nature?
"I really wish to see the things able to produce this

XXXV] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
2-79
conviction in a mind like yours, which I have always considered to be of so superior a quality.
"I am, very faithfully,
" JOHN TYNDALL."
I replied to this extraordinary letter by telling him that
I could " undertake " nothing, but that the phenomena had
occurred at various times when many different persons had
been present; that, of course, he could examine and test them
as he pleased, but that if he really wished to witness the
phenomena in all their variety, I strongly advised him to
be a passive spectator on the first two or three visits, and
only apply tests and impose conditions at a later period. I
asked him to name a day, and he came.
At the very beginning he forgot or purposely acted
contrary to my advice. On being asked to sit at the table
with my sister, Miss Nichol, and myself, he declined, saying,
" I never form part of my experiments. I will sit here and
look on "-drawing his chair about a yard away. So we
three sat without him, with our hands on the table; and
rather to my surprise the rapping sounds began, and were
much stronger and more varied in character than when Dr.
Carpenter had heard them. They were, in fact, very varied
in tone-some mere ticks, others loud slaps or thumps. But
to all this he paid no attention. He joked with Miss Nichol,
who was always ready for fun, and, after the raps had gone
on some time, he remarked, " We know all about these raps.
Show us something else. I thought I should see something
remarkable." But nothing else came. Then, after a little
talk and more chaff with Miss Nichol, he said "' Good night; "
and though I begged him to appoint a day for the next
sitting, he never came again.
I next tried Mr. G. H. Lewes (whose acquaintance I had
made at Huxley's), but he was too much occupied and too
incredulous to give any time to the inquiry. During this
time I was reading almost everything I could obtain upon
the phenomena, and found that there was such a mass of
testimony by men of the highest character and ability in

280
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
every department of human learning, that I thought it would
be useful to bring these together in a connected sketch of
the whole subject. This I did, and sent it to a secularist
magazine, in which it appeared in I866, and I also had a
hundred copies printed separately, which I distributed among
my friends. It was called "The Scientific Aspect of the
Supernatural," a somewhat misleading title, as in the introductory chapter I argued for all the phenomena, however
extraordinary, being really " natural" and involving no alteration whatever in the ordinary laws of nature. Some years
later (1874) this was included in my volume on "Miracles
and Modern Spiritualism," with an additional chapter, "Notes
of Personal Evidence."
The letters I received from those to whom I sent copies
of this little pamphlet were interesting though not instructive.
j Huxley wrote: " I am neither shocked nor disposed to issue
a Commission of Lunacy against you. It may be all true,
for anything I know to the contrary, but really I cannot get
up any interest in the subject. I never cared for gossip in
my life, and disembodied gossip, such as these worthy ghosts
supply their friends with, is not more interesting to me than
any other. As for investigating the matter-I have half a
dozen investigations of infinitely greater interest to me-to
which any spare time I may have will be devoted. I give
it up for the same reason I abstain from chess-it's too
amusing,to be fair work, and too hard work to be amusing."
To the latter part of this letter no objection can be
made, but the objection as to "gossip" was quite irrelevant
as regards a book which had not one line of "gossip" in
it, but was wholly devoted to a summary of the evidence
for facts-physical and mental-of a most extraordinary
character, given on the testimony of twenty-two well-known
men, mathematicians, astronomers, chemists, physiologists,
lawyers, clergymen, and authors, many of world-wide
reputation.
Tyndall read the book "with deep disappointment,"
because it contained no record of my own experiments.
He knew Baron Reichenbach, and had visited him, and had

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
281
seen all his apparatus and his methods. It was he who had
reproached Thackeray for allowing the article about " Home"
to appear in the Cornhill Magazine, and he added"Poor Thackeray was staggered and abashed by the
earnestness of my remonstrance regarding the lending the
authority of his name to 'Stranger than Fiction,' my great
respect for Thackeray rendering my remonstrance earnest."
Then he concludes with a gentle admonition to myself"I see the usual keen powers of your mind displayed
in the treatment of this question. But mental power may
show itself, whether its material be facts or fictions. It is
not lack of logic that I see in your book, but a willingness
that I deplore to accept data which are unworthy of your
attention. This is frank-is it not?
"Yours very faithfully,
"JOHN TYNDALL."
G. H. Lewes, to whom I had sent the little book with
an invitation to investigate at my house the phenomena
which occurred with my friend Miss Nichol, replied much
in the same way as Tyndall-that he was quite ready to
examine any serious claim to spiritual power, but that he
had "thoroughly examined" the phenomena, "had forced
Mrs. Hayden to avow herself an impostor," while all other
mediums he had tested "were either impostors or dupes."
Still, he would come to me if he could have "all the
conditions of testing the phenomena freely accorded." He
"would not permit a medium to determine the conditions
or to open the usual loopholes of escape." He would also
wish to bring Mr. Herbert Spencer, or some other scientific
friend with him; and he concluded, "I pledge you my word
that I will publicly state, with all the accuracy I can, whatever phenomena I may witness."
I gladly accepted his offer, only stipulating as before that
he should not impose conditions on thefirst occasion, and
that he should devote at least six sittings (I think) of an
hour each to the investigation before coming to any conclusion. But he never came at all.

282
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Several of my friends about this time urged me strongly
to make a personal investigation of the subject. Among
these were my old companion, H. W. Bates, and Professor
E. B. Tylor. I was doing so at the time, but when I
published the results a few years later, and about the same
time Sir William Crookes published his much more remarkable investigations, both alike were received with silence,
incredulity, or contempt.
Notwithstanding this refusal to accept my offer of a full
examination of phenomena which had repeatedly occurred
in my presence and had been submitted to varied tests, a year
afterwards two of these men of science wrote to the Pall Mall
Gazette (May I9, I868), making various accusations against
mediums and spiritualists. Mr. Lewes declared that scientific
men are never allowed to investigate, but are put off by an
evasion of some kind; and many other things equally untrue.
He then suggested that the whole thing could be tested
by allowing Professor Tyndall to have one sitting with any
medium, and to propose three questions for the spirits to
answer correctly. I thereupon wrote to the editor with a full
reply, pointing out that Mr. Cromwell Varley, the eminent
electrician, had recently published the statement that he had
been permitted to investigate fully by Mr. Home, with satisfactory results. I then related a series of test experiments
in my own house, and asked Mr. Lewes how his statement
that others have discovered how the tables are turned (and
can turn them), how the raps are produced (and can produce
them), how the ropes are untied (and can untie them), can
apply to such phenomena as I relate, and to such tests and
conditions as I gave, or what bearing Professor Tyndall's
proposed "three questions" could have upon them.
This reply was, however, refused publication by the
editor, and I wrote to Mr. Lewes suggesting that, for the
sake of his own reputation, he should in future, if he wrote
publicly on this subject, do so only in such journals as
would admit a reply.
As an example of the strange methods of our opponents
at this time, I may refer to Mr. Lewes's statement to me

XXXV] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
283
that " he had forced Mrs. Hayden to avow herself an
impostor." As this was important if true, because this lady
was the medium whose phenomena had convinced Professor g
de Morgan, I inquired further about it, and found from
Mr. Lewes's own statement of his experiment that he had
asked a series of written questions which were answered
through the alphabet by raps in the usual way, most of the
answers being either vague or altogether wrong, and the
last question was, "Is Mrs. Hayden an impostor?" to which
the answer was "Yes." And this ingenious trick he afterwards termed "forcing Mrs. Hayden to avow herself an
impostor! "
As it is always of interest to have at first-hand an
expression of the frame of mind of eminent men upon this
subject, I here give a letter from John Stuart Mill to a
gentleman who sent him a tract in which it was stated that
he, along with Ruskin, Tennyson, and Longfellow, had
become believers in spiritualism, and asking if it were true.
This gentleman, Mr. N. Kilburn, of Bishop Auckland, sent
me a copy of Mill's reply, which was as follows:
" It is the first time I ever heard that I was a believer
in spiritualism, and I am not sorry to be able to suppose
that some of the other names I have seen mentioned as
believers in it are no more so than myself.
" For my own part I not only have never seen any
evidence that I think of the slightest weight in favour of
spiritualism, but I should also find it very difficult to believe
any of it on any evidence whatever, and I am in the habit
of expressing my opinion to that effect very freely whenever the subject is mentioned in my presence. You are at
liberty to make any use you please of this letter."
This was dated "March i8, i868," but I did not know
of it till I874, or I might have mentioned the subject when
I dined with him in I870. If by "any evidence whatever"
Mr. Mill meant testimony of others, I myself, and most
spiritualists, were in the same frame of mind when we began
our inquiries; but as he used the word " evidence," he no
doubt included personal evidence, and to decide beforehand

284
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
that he would not believe it is very unphilosophical. Still,
he only says difficult, not impossible, and here, again, I quite
agree with him.
At this same period I had letters from other men of
various degrees of eminence of a much more satisfactory
nature. On receipt of a copy of my pamphlet, Professor
de Morgan wrote me as follows:"I am much obliged to you for your little work, which
is well adapted to excite inquiry. But I doubt whether
inquiry by men of science would lead to any result. There
is much reason to think that the state of mind of the inquirer
has something-be it internal or external-to do with the
power of the phenomena to manifest themselves. This I
take to be one of the phenomena-to be associated with the
rest in inquiry into cause. It may be a consequence of action
of incredulous feeling on the nervous system of the recipient;
or it may be that the volition-say the spirit, if you likefinds difficulty in communicating with a repellent organization;
or,,maybe, is offended. Be it which it may, there is the fact.
" Now the man of science comes to the subject in utter
incredulity of the phenomena, and a wish to justify it.
I think it very possible that the phenomena may be withheld. In some cases this has happened, as I have heard
from good sources.
"I have had students -- a couple of dozen in my lifewhose effort always was not to see it. As I, their informing
spirit, was under contract to make them see it if I couldwhich the spirits we are speaking of are not-I generally
succeeded in convincing them. In their minds I have
studied-with power of experiment arranged by myself-the
character of the man of science.
" D'Alembert said, speaking of mathematics-of all things
-'En avant et la foi viendra.' But I doubt if the man of
science of our day can persuade himself of a possibility
of his fifth attempt destroying the effect of the failure of the
first four.
1 De Morgan was one of the greatest mathematicians of his time, and
Professor of Mathematics at University College.

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
285
"Your book will set many rational persons suspecting
they ought to inquire.
"Yours faithfully,
" A. DE MORGAN."
This seems to me to exhibit the scientific frame of mind,
as manifested by Tyndall, Lewes, and W. B. Carpenter, with
great perspicuity.
I had some correspondence at this time with William
Howitt, and he and Mrs. Howitt came one evening for a
s&znce with Miss Nichol, and were much pleased with the
curious musical and other phenomena; and I also made
the acquaintance of Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall, and visited
them to attend a serance with Home, which, although all
present were friends and spiritualists, turned out a failure,
owing to the circle being broken by Mr. Hall being called
out on urgent business.
But perhaps the most interesting response to a copy of
my pamphlet was that from Robert Chambers, which I here
give"St. Andrews, February io, i867.
"DEAR SIR,
" I have received your letter of the 6th inst., and
your little volume. It gratifies me much to receive a friendly
communication from the Mr. Wallace of my friend Darwin's
'Origin of Species,' and my gratification is greatly heightened
on finding that he is one of the few men of science who
admit the verity of the phenomena of spiritualism. I have
for many years known that these phenomena are real, as
distinguished from impostures; and it is not of yesterday
that I concluded they were calculated to explain much that
has been doubtful in the past, and when fully accepted,
revolutionize the whole frame of human opinion on many
important matters.
"How provoking it has often appeared to me that it

286
MY LIFE
CHAP.
seems so impossible, with such a man, for instance, as Huxley,
to obtain a moment's patience for this subject-so infinitely
transcending all those of physical science in the potential
results I
"My idea is that the term 'supernatural' is a gross
mistake. We have only to enlarge our conceptions of the
natural, and all will be right.
"I am, dear sir,
"Yours very sincerely,
" ROBERT CHAMBERS."
In the latter part of the year, while attending the meeting
of the British Association at Dundee, I visited St. Andrews,
and after a geological excursion under the guidance of Sir
A. Geikie, and a collation with the university authorities, at
which Robert Chambers was present, I had the great pleasure
of an hour's conversation with him in his own house. The
Spiritual Magazine, founded by William Howitt and some
friends, was at that time admirably edited by Mr. Thomas
Shorter, and my host told me that he always read it through
from cover to cover, and that few of the magazines of the
day contained so much valuable information and so much
good writing as this depised periodical, in which I fully agreed
with him.
Two years later (in I869) I received a letter from him
to introduce me to Miss Douglas, a lady much interested
in spiritualism, who lived in South Audley Street. Here I
attended many stances-on one occasion when Home was
the medium and Mr. (now Sir William) Crookes was present.
As I was the only one of the company who had not witnessed
any of the remarkable phenomena that occurred in his presence, I was invited to go under the table while an accordion
was playing, held in Home's hand, his other hand being on
the table. The room was well lighted, and I distinctly saw
Home's hand holding the instrument, which moved up and
down and played a tune without any visible cause. On
stating this, he said, "Now I will take away my hand "which he did; but the instrument went on playing, and I

XXXV] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
287
saw a detached hand holding it while Home's two hands
were seen above the table by all present. This was one
of the ordinary phenomena, and thousands of persons have
witnessed it; and when we consider that Home's selances
almost always took place in private houses at which he was
a guest, and with people absolutely above suspicion of collusion
with an impostor, and also either in the daytime or in a fully
illuminated room, it will be admitted that no form of legerdemain will explain what occurred.
In view of the extraordinary misstatements that were
continually made by scientific men, who had influence with
the public (and are still made both on this and on other
subjects), it will be well to give a short account of one of
these, which caused much discussion at the time.
Mr. Home first came to England (since his childhood)
early in i855, and lived for some months with Mr. Cox, of
Cox's Hotel in Jermyn Street. Here, among numerous other
eminent men, he gave a sitting to Lord Brougham accompanied by Sir David Brewster, "in order to assist in finding
out the trick," as Sir David himself stated. About six
months afterwards a not quite correct account of this stance
was given in the MorningAdvertiser, copied from an American
paper, whereupon Sir David wrote to the editor to give his
own account, in which he said, " It is quite true that I saw
at Cox's Hotel, in company with Lord Brougham, and at
Ealing, in company with Mrs. Trollope, several mechanical
effects which I was unable to explain. But although I could
not account for all these effects, I never thought of ascribing
them to spirits stalking beneath the drapery of the table;
and I saw enough to satisfy myself that they could all be
produced by human hands andfeet, and to prove to others
that some of them, at least, had such an origin.
" Were Mr. Home to assume the character of the Wizard
of the West, I should enjoy his exhibition as much as that of
other conjurors; but when he pretends to possess the power
of introducing among the feet of his audience the spirits of
the dead, of bringing them into physical communication with
their dearest relatives, and of revealing the secrets of the

288
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
grave, he insults religion and common sense, and tampers
with the most sacred feelings of his victims.
"I am, sir,
"Yours, etc.,
"D. BREWSTER."
Here Sir David appeals to religious prejudice, as he had
just done in his very weak book in reply to Whewell's
"Plurality of Worlds." But his account of the seance and
the imputations it cast on both Home and his host, Mr. Cox,
were at once answered by that gentleman, who declared that,
immediately after the seance, both Lord Brougham and Sir
David had expressed their great astonishment, and that the
latter had exclaimed, " Sir, this upsets the philosophy of fifty
years." A friend of Mr. Cox and of Home-Mr. Colemanalso wrote, reminding Sir David that very shortly afterwards
he and Mr. Cox had called upon him to talk over the subject,
and that Sir David declared that what he had seen was " quite
unaccountable." Mr. Coleman continues thus:"I then asked him, 'Do you, Sir David, think these
things were produced by trick?'
"'No, certainly not,' was his reply.
"' Is it a delusion, think you?'
"'No; that is out of the question.'
"' Then what is it?'
"To which he replied, 'I don't know; but spirit is the
last thing I give in to.'"
To this Sir David replied by a very long letter, denying
some things and explaining others. The most important
passages are the following:"Mr. Home invited us to examine if there was any
machinery about his person, an examination, however, which we
declined to make. When all our hands were upon the table
noises were heard-rappings in abundance; and, finally,
when we rose up, the table actually rose, as appeared to
me, from the ground. This result I do not pretend to
explain....
"A small hand-bell, to be rung by the spirits, was placed

XXXVl MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM

289

on the ground near my feet. I placed my feet round it in

the form of an angle, to catch any intrusive apparatus. The

bell did not ring; but when taken across to a place near

Mr. Home's feet, it speedily came across, and placed its

handle in my hand. This was amusing."

There is also a long account of the phenomena he saw

at Ealing in a still more jocular vein, which called forth a

very scathing letter from Mr. T. Adolphus Trollope, who had

been present. These letters and some others can all be

read in full in an appendix to Home's "Incidents in my

Life," and as this appendix was drawn up by Dr. Robert

Chambers (as I know from private information), the reader

may feel satisfied that these letters are given as they were

written.

But the chief reason why I have introduced the matter

here is, that we possess, fortunately, another account of Sir

David Brewster's seance at Cox's Hotel, written by himself

very shortly afterwards, while the facts were fresh in his

memory, in a letter to some member of his own family, and

published in the " Home Life of Sir David Brewster " by his

daughter, in I869. At my request my friend Mr. Benjamin

Coleman sent me a copy of this contemporary account, dated

London, June, I855. It is as follows: --

"Last of all, I went with Lord Brougham to a seance of

the new spirit-rapper, Mr. Home, a lad of twenty, the son of a

brother of the late Earl of Home. He went to America at the

age of seven, and, though a naturalized American, is actually

a Scotchman. Mr. Home lives in Cox's Hotel, in Jermyn

Street, and Mr. Cox, who knows Lord Brougham, wished

him to have a sgance, and his lordship invited me to accompany him, in order to assist in finding out the trick. We

four sat down at a moderately sized table, the structure of,

which we were invited to examine. In a short time the table

shuddered, and a tremulous motion ran up all our arms; at our

bidding these motions ceased and returned.

"The most unaccountable rappings were produced in various

parts of the table, and the table actually rose from the ground

when no hand was upon it. A larger table was produced,

VOL. II.  U

290
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
and exhibited similar movements. An accordion was held
in Lord Brougham's hand and gave out a single note, but the
experiment was a failure; it would not play either in his
hand or mine.
"A small hand-bell was then laid down with its mouth
on the carpet, and after lying for some time it actually rang
when nothing could have touched it. The bell was then placed
on the other side, still upon the carpet, and it came over to me
and placed itself in my hand. It did thesame to Lord Brougham.
"These were the principal experiments; we could give no
explanation of them, and could not conjecture how they could be
produced by any kind of mechanism. Hands are sometimes
seen and felt, the hand often grasps another, and melts away
as it were under the grasp.
"The object of asking Lord Brougham and me seems to
have been to get our favourable opinion of the exhibition,
but though neither of us can explain what we saw, we do not
believe that it was the work of idle spirits."
I have italicized certain passages in this early letter to
compare with the corresponding parts of the letters Sir
David wrote to the Morning Advertiser about half a year
later, and it will be seen that the discrepancies are very
serious. He told the public that he had satisfied himself
that all could have been done by human hands and feet;
whereas in his earlier private letter he terms them unaccountable, and says that he could not conjecture how they were done.
Neither did he tell the public of the tremulous motion up his
arms, while he denied that the bell rang at all, though he had
before said that it actually rang where nothing could have
touched it.
If this case stood alone it would not, perhaps, be worth
mentioning, but a similar tendency has prevailed in all the
scientific opponents of spiritualism, one example of which I
have given in the case of Mr. Lewes's declaration that he had
forced Mrs. Hayden to avow herself an impostor, whereas
what happened really proved that Mrs. Hayden herself did
not consciously give the answers to his questions.
One of the eminent men with whom I became acquainted

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
291
through spiritualism was Mr. Cromwell F. Varley, the
electrician. Any one who will read his evidence, printed in
the Report of the Dialectical Society (i87I), will see that he
was at first as sceptical as any other scientific man usually is,
and ought to be, but, having married a lady who was a
medium, phenomena of such a marvellous nature were presented to him in his own home, that he could not help
becoming an ardent believer. But he was always a critic
and an experimenter, and he assisted Sir William Crookes
in applying some of the electrical tests to Mrs. Fay, as
described by that gentleman in The Spiritualist newspaper
of March i2, i875.
I became acquainted with him in i868 through a letter
from Professor Tyndall referring, I think, to the single test at
one siance as proposed by G. H. Lewes in the Pall Mall
Gazette shortly afterwards, and suggesting that Mr. Varley,
who had published some of his investigations, might be able
to supply such a test. To this letter I replied as follows: --
"May 8, i868.
"DEAR MR. TYNDALL,
" I do not know Mr. Varley, but I will forward him
your note, and he can reply if he thinks proper. I rather
doubt if any single case would be conclusive to you. Hume's
argument is overwhelming against any single case, considered
alone, however well authenticated. He himself admits that
no facts could possibly be better authenticated than the
(so-called) miracles which occurred at the tomb of the
Abbe Paris. But when you look at a series of such cases,
amounting to thousands in our own day, and a corresponding
series extending back through all history, Hume's argument
entirely fails, because his major proposition-that such facts
are contrary to the universal experience of mankind-ceases to
be true.
"During the last two years I have witnessed a great
variety of phenomena, under such varied conditions that
each objection as it arose was answered by other phenomena.
The further I inquire, and the more I see, the more impossible

292
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
becomes the theory of imposture or delusion. I know that
the facts are real natural phenomena, just as certainly as I
know any other curious facts in nature.
" Allow me to narrate one of the scores of equally remarkable things I have witnessed, and this one, though it certainly
happened in the dark, is thereby only rendered more difficult
to explain as a trick.
" The place was the drawing-room of a friend of mine, a
brother of one of our best artists. The witnesses were his
own and his brother's family, one or two of their friends,
myself, and Mr. John Smith, banker, of Malton, Yorkshire,
introduced by me. The medium was Miss Nichol. We sat
round a pillar-table in the middle of the room, exactly under
a glass chandelier. Miss Nichol sat opposite me, and my
friend, Mr. Smith, sat next her. We all held our neighbour's
hands, and Miss Nichol's hands were both held by Mr. Smith,
a stranger to all but myself, and who had never met Miss N.
before. When comfortably arranged in this manner the
lights were put out, one of the party holding a box of
matches ready to strike a light when asked.
"After a few minutes' conversation, during a period of
silence, I heard the following sounds in rapid succession:
a slight rustle, as of a lady's dress; a little tap, such as
might be made by setting down a wineglass on the table;
and a very slight jingling of the drops of the glass chandelier.
An instant after Mr. Smith said, ' Miss Nichol is gone.' The
match-holder struck a light, and on the table (which had
no cloth) was Miss Nichol seated in her chair, her head just
touching the chandelier.
"I had witnessed a similar phenomenon before, and was
able to observe coolly; and the facts were noted down soon
afterwards. Mr. Smith assured me that Miss Nichol simply
glided out of his hands. No one else moved or quitted hold
of their neighbour's hands. There was not more noise than
I have described, and no motion or even tremor of the table,
although our hands were upon it.
"You know Miss N.'s size and probable weight, and can
judge of the force and exertion required to lift her and her

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
293
chair on to the exact centre of a large pillar-table, as well
as the great surplus of force required to do it almost
instantaneously and noiselessly, in the dark, and without
pressure on the side of the table which would have tilted it
up. Will any of the known laws of nature account for this?
"Yours very faithfully,
"ALFRED R. WALLACE."
Of course I did not expect Professor Tyndall to accept
such a fact on my testimony; on the contrary, I described
it for the very purpose of arguing that, if he himself had
been present, he would probably not have been satisfied that
it was not a trick, unless he could have it repeated under
varied conditions. Yet he was so illogical as to think that a
test phenomenon occurring once only under his or Mr. G. H.
Lewes's conditions would settle the whole question-that is,
would satisfy the scientific world and the general public that
the spiritualistic phenomena were genuine, and that what
used to be called "miracles" did happen in our midst
to-day. Sir William Crookes's experience, a few years later,
proves how totally wrong Tyndall was in this opinion, since
his careful experiments, continued for several years, are to
this day ignored or rejected by the bulk of scientific and
public opinion as if they had never been made!
In order to show Mr. Varley's liberal spirit towards
opponents, and also for suggestions of great value, I give
here some extracts from a letter I received from him in
January, I869 -" We spiritualists should remember that the way in which
science has reached its present brilliant position has been
through our philosophers doubting, disbelieving, and testing
everything until further disbelief was impossible.
"We privileged ones owe it to the world to present
spiritualism to them in a manner so clearly defined and
demonstrated, that those who follow us shall be able to
make themselves as much masters of the subject as we
are.
"What is wanted is to bring together a large number

294
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
of harmonious mediums, to form of these several circles of
different characters, and to secure the assistance of several
clairvoyants.
"Each circle should be under the management of a
clever man and each should carry on a continuous and
exhaustive examination of the groundwork of the subject.
Once establish a clue to the relations existing between the
physical forces known to us and those forces by which the
spirits are sometimes able to call into play the power by
which they produce physical phenomena-once establish this
clue there will be no lack of investigators, and the whole
subject will assume a rational and intelligible shape to the
outside world."
This was written thirty-five years ago, but, though the
Society for Psychical Research has done a good deal, the
first step has not been taken in the direction here indicated.
Now, however, that a research fund is being formed there are
better prospects. Much will depend, however, on choosing
investigators who will be content for some time to observe
the phenomena as they occur under those conditions which
have been found most successful by other inquirers. Above
all things, it is essential to make friends of the mediums
employed, to treat them with the greatest consideration, and
strictly to follow the advice of the intelligence that works
through them. It was in this way that Sir William Crookes
and other successful observers have obtained such striking
results, under the most stringent conditions and subject to
the most varied tests; whereas those who begin by treating
the mediums as if they were on their trial, and insist upon
applying their own conditions at the very outset, usually
obtain nothing but the conviction that all spiritualists are
fools and all mediums impostors.
In 1872 I reviewed Robert Dale Owen's work, "The
Debatable Land between this World and the Next," a sequel
to his " Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World," the
two forming the best-reasoned and the most logically arranged
body of evidence for psychical phenomena in existence. Every

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
295
example is quoted from the original authority wherever
possible, confirmatory testimony has been collected with the
greatest care, and the bearing of each upon the general
argument is discussed or clearly pointed out. This review
brought me a very interesting letter from the author, and
later on a communication from Dr. Eugene Crowell, M.D.
of New York, with a copy of his exceedingly valuable work,
"Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism" (2 vols.),
in which almost every miraculous occurrence narrated in the
Old or New Testaments is paralleled by well-authenticated
phenomena from the records of modern spiritualism, many of
them having been witnessed and carefully examined by Dr.
Crowell himself.
During the years I870-80 I had many opportunities of
witnessing interesting phenomena in the houses of various
friends, some of which I have not made public. Early in
I874 I was invited by John Morley, then editor of the
Fortnightly Review, to write an article on "Spiritualism" for
that periodical. Much public interest had been excited by
the publication of the Report of the Committee of the
Dialectical Society, and especially by Mr. Crookes's experiments with Mr. Home, and the refusal of the Royal Society
to see these experiments repeated. I therefore accepted the
task, and my article appeared in May and June under the
title "A Defence of Modern Spiritualism." At the end of
the same year I included this article, together with my former
small book, "The Scientific Aspects of the Supernatural,"
and a paper I had read before the Dialectical Society in
I87I answering the arguments of Hume, Lecky, and other
writers against miracles, in a volume which has had a very
considerable sale, and has led many persons to investigate
the subject and to become convinced of the reality of the
phenomena. In the preface I showed the inaccuracy of
Anton Dohrn's supposition that religious prejudices had led
me to believe in spiritualism. A third edition of the book,
in I895, contained two new chapters on the nature and
purport of apparitions, and also, in a new preface, a brief
outline of the remarkable progress of the subject; so that at

296
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
the present day a large number of its phenomena, at first
denied, and afterwards sneered at or ignored, have now
become recognized and included among the undoubted facts
of physiological or psychical science.
Among the friends with whom I investigated the subject
was Mr. Marshman, at that time Agent-General for New
Zealand, and Miss Buckley. Both were friends of Samuel
Butler, the author of those remarkable works, "Erewhon"
and "Life and Habit." Mr. Marshman invited him to a
stance at his house, with myself and several other friends;
but he thought it all trickery. I sent him a copy of my book,
and he wrote me three letters in a week, chiefly to explain
that the whole subject bored him. In his first letter he says
that Mr. Marshman and Miss Buckley are two of the clearestheaded people he knows, and therefore he cannot help believing there must be something in it. "But,",he says, "what
I saw at the Marshmans' was impudent humbug." In the
second he gives a curious revelation of the state of his mind
in a personal anecdote. He writes: " Granted that wonderful spirit-forms have been seen and touched and then disappeared, and that there has been no delusion, no trickery.
Well; I don't care. I get along quite nicely as I am. I
don't want them to meddle with me. I had a very dear
friend once, whom I believed to be dying, and so did she.
We discussed the question whether she could communicate
with me after death. 'Promise,' I said, and very solemnly,
'that if you find there are means of visiting me here on earth
-that if you can send a message to me-you will never avail
yourself of the means, nor let me hear from you when you
are once departed.' Unfortunately she recovered, and never
forgave me. If she had died, she would have come back if
she could; of that I am certai i by her subsequent behaviour
to me. I believe my instinct was perfectly right; and I will
go farther: if ever a spirit-form takes to coming near me, I
shall not be content with trying to grasp it, but, in the
interest of science, I will shoot it."
The third is a very nice letter, and is a kind of apology
for what he thought I might consider rather unreasonable in

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
297
the others, and I will therefore give it, in order that my
readers may not, through me, get a wrong idea of this
remarkably gifted though eccentric writer.
"I15, Clifford's Inn, E.C., May 27, I859.
"DEAR SIR,
"Pray forgive me. I am sure I must have said
rather more than I ought. A friend was with me when your
letter came; I read it to him, and he said,' If you grant Mr.
Wallace's facts-and you do not deny them-he is perfectly
right, and your answer does not meet him at all. He tells
you that you are engaged on certain investigations in which
your opinions must be entirely altered if you accept his facts.
You admit this yourself-you do not deny his facts-and say
that you do not care,-that is childish.'
"I admitted the truth of what he said; and I feel
therefore that an apology is due to you, which pray understand me as making without reserve. I have read the greater
part of the book you so kindly gave me, and shall read
every word of it. I admire the force and clearness with
which it is written, every word of it impressing me that it is
written by one who understands his own meaning, and wishes
others to understand it; but I cannot pretend that it has
kindled in me that inward motion to see and hear more,
without which you and I both know no good can come of
any investigation.
"If there is that spiritual world independent of matter,
which you believe in, a day may come when something will
happen to me which will kindle in a moment the right
spirit of inquiry; no one will follow it up more promptly
or persistently when it is aroused. If that time never comes,
it must be taken as a sign that I am not one of those from
whom that cause would gain.
" Hoping you will forgive me for any rudeness that I fear
I have been guilty of,
"Believe me,
"Yours very truly,
"S. BUTLER."

298
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
That seems to me a very pleasant letter, expressing his
position very clearly. Of course, he had no rudeness to
apologize for, as I told him, and though I do not think we
met very often afterwards, we continued very good friends.
While residing at Godalming, I made the acquaintance
of William Allingham and his wife-the poet and the artistwho then lived at Witley-I think it was about the years
I886 or 1887. Mr. Allingham told me that Tennyson
wished to see me, and would be glad if I would come some
day and lunch with him. A day was fixed, and I accompanied Mr. Allingham to the beautifully situated house on
Blackdown, near Haslemere, where the poet lived during the
summer. Lord Tennyson did not appear till luncheon was
on the table, but in the mean time we had seen Lady Tennyson and her son and daughter-in-law, and been shown round
the grounds. After luncheon we four men retired to the
study, with its three great windows looking south-east over
the grand expanse of the finely wooded Weald of Kent.
Here Tennyson lit his pipe, and we sat round the fire and
soon got on the subject of spiritualism, which was evidently
what he had wished to talk to me about. I told him some
of my experiences, and replied to some of his difficulties-the
usual difficulties of those who, though inclined to believe,
have seen nothing, and find the phenomena as described so
different from what they think they ought to be. He was
evidently greatly impressed by the evidence, and wished to
see something. I gave him the names of one or two
mediums whom I believed to be quite trustworthy, but
whether he ever had any sittings with them I did not hear.
Then we talked a little about the tropics and of the
scenery of the Eastern islands; and, taking down a volume
he read, in his fine, deep, chanting voice, his description of
Enoch Arden's island"The mountain wooded to the peak, the lawns
And winding glades high up like ways to heaven,
The slender coco's drooping crown of plumes,
The lightning flash of insect or of bird,

xxxv] MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM
299
The lustre of the long convolvuluses
That coiled around the stately stems, and ran
Ev'n to the limit of the land, the glows
And glories of the broad belt of the world, --
All these he saw; but what he fain had seen
He could not see, the kindly human face,
Nor ever hear a kindly voice, but heard
The myriad shriek of wheeling ocean fowl,
The league-long roller thundering on the beach,
The moving whisper of huge trees that branch'd
And blossom'd to the zenith, or the sweep
Of some precipitous rivulet to the wave,
As down the shore he ranged, or all day long
Sat often in the seaward-gazing gorge,
A shipwreck'd sailor waiting for a sail:
No sail from day to day, but every day
The sunrise broken into scarlet shafts
Among the palms and ferns and precipices;
The blaze upon the waters to the east;
The blaze upon his island overhead;
The blaze upon the waters to the west;
Then the great stars that globed themselves in heaven,
The hollower-bellowing ocean, and again
The scarlet shafts of sunrise-but no sail."
Then he closed the book and asked me if that description
was in any way untrue to nature. I told him that so far as
I knew from the islands I had seen on the western borders ~
of the Pacific, it gave a strikingly true general description of
the vegetation and the aspects of nature among those islands,
at which he seemed pleased. Of course, it avoids much
detail, but the amount of detail it gives is correct, and it is
just about as much as a rather superior sailor would observe
and remember.
We then bade him good-bye, went downstairs and had
tea with the ladies, and walked back to Haslemere station.
I was much pleased to have met and had friendly converse
with the most thoughtful, refined, broad-minded, and
harmonious of our poets of the nineteenth century.

CHAPTER XXXVI
TWO BIOLOGICAL INQUIRERS: AN EPISODE IN THE
HISTORY OF SPIRITUALISM
AMONG my scientific friends there are two with whom I had
some relations in regard to spiritualism of a specially interesting character-St. George Mivart and George J. Romanesand to each of these I must devote a few pages.
It was, I think, through my conversation and my first
small book that Mivart became satisfied that the phenomena
were at least partly genuine, and although a Roman Catholic,
he was not afraid to pursue the inquiry. On going to Naples
in the winter of I870, he wrote me for an introduction to my
friends, Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, who were then staying there.
On the eve of his departre: he wrote telling me what had
happened"Nothing could have exceeded the kindness which your
good friends, Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, have shown to me, and I
have felt quite ashamed of the quantity of their time I have
taken up. Besides morning calls and a walk, they have
given me three stances (all to myself) and have most kindly
promised to give me a fourth and last this evening, as tomorrow morning I start on my road northwards.
" At the first seance there was nothing but raps-questions
were replied to; two of which much surprised me, as they
were only asked mentally. A remedy was indicated for an
affection of the teeth, which I have tried and believe will
prove efficacious.
"At the second stance (the first dark one I ever attended)
flowers were produced. The door was locked, the room
300

[CHAP. XXXVI] INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 301
searched, and all requisite precautions taken. I was not
surprised, because of all I had heard from you and others;
but the phenomenon was to me convincing. One such fact
is as good as a hundred.
"At the third seance (last night) I preferred to ask
questions to having a repetition of the flowers. The value
of the answers received time may show. I have received a
wrong answer (as to a person being tall), also as to there
being a letter awaiting me at my hotel. Altogether the
conclusions I have arrived at are as follows:
"I. I have encountered a power capable of removing
sensible objects in a way altogether new to me.
"II. I have encountered an intelligence other than that
of the visible assistants.
"III. In my szances this intelligence has shown itself
capable of reading my thought, but yet either liable to fall
into error or else not strictly truthful.
"IV. It has been sometimes capricious, saying it will
not do what it has afterwards done, and that it will do what,
nevertheless, it has failed to perform.
"I am precluded from saying how much I like your
friends, because I think this letter is to be read by them;
but I am not precluded from thanking you, my dear Wallace,
for the introduction, which I do very heartily, remaining
always,
" Yours very truly,
"ST. GEORGE MIVART."
I was somewhat surprised at Mivart's appreciation of the
Guppys, because of the great contrast between them: he
extremely refined in speech and manners, and somewhat
fastidious in his acquaintances; they both rather brusque and
utterly unconventional; yet he evidently recognized in them
a straightforwardness of character, kindness of heart, love of
truth, and earnestness of purpose, which are vastly more
important than any amount of superficial polish. I may here
note that he would probably have had more satisfactory

302
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
results if he had allowed the powers at work to take their
own course, instead of attempting to limit the phenomena to
answering questions-a form of mediumship which, so far as I
remember, was never very prominent or successful with Mrs.
Guppy. This is the great fault of all beginners. Instead of
being content for a time to observe only what happens, they
almost always want certain phenomena which alone will
satisfy them; acting on the tacit assumption that all mediums
and all preterhuman intelligences are able to produce at will
all the various classes of phenomena. Those who follow the
more scientific method of beginning with observation onlywhich, strange to say, the scientific men are hardly ever
willing to do-almost always find that their early doubts and
suspicions are, one by one, shown to be unfounded, through
the occurrence of phenomena which seem specially adapted
to answer them.
A few years later my friend visited Lourdes, in order to
inquire on the spot as to the marvellous cures said to be
effected there, and, if possible, to see some of them himself.
While there he wrote me a very interesting letter, giving
some account of his inquiries, which, being a Catholic, a wellknown writer, and a good French scholar, he had facilities for
pursuing which the ordinary English tourist or reporter does
not possess. I give here the more important parts of this
letter, dated April 5, 1874.
After referring to my Fortnightly Review article which I
had told him I was writing, he continues, "We are here in a
charming country and quiet, pleasant old town, at this season
almost empty of visitors. We are here also, as you are, no
doubt, fully aware, at the headquarters of a whole series of
alleged modern miracles performed, as asserted, through the
water which suddenly began to flow while Bernadette Soubirons was in an ecstatic state in the presence, as she affirms,
of an apparition of the B.V.M. [Blessed Virgin Mary].
"I have made such inquiries as I have been able, and
find that here, on the spot, the miracles are fully believed in.
The clergy were for a long time opposed to the whole thing,
and the bishop had to be morally forced to institute an

xxxvIi TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 303
inquiry, he was so little disposed to accept such phenomena
as facts. He ended, however, by being fully convinced, as
also the curd (a fine, soldier-like man of about sixty-five, somewhat brusque in his manners), who is quite certain as to the
marvellous nature of many cures. I have had a long talk
with the doctor here (Dr. Dozens) and with two others at
Toulouse (Dr: Rogues, No. 8, Rue d'Aussargues, and Dr.
Nogubs, Rue St. Anne). I will just mention one or two cases,
as to the facts of which I have had face-to-face testimony
from one or other of these doctors.
" A woman named Blaisette Soupevue of this place, about
fifty, had had an affection (blepharite) of the eyes for several
years. Both eyelids were partially everted, lashless, and the
lower lids had numerous fleshy excrescences. Dr. Dozens
attended this case himself, as also a Dr. Vergez. It was
pronounced chronic, and all idea of cure abandoned. She
washed her eyes with the water on two successive days;
on the second her sight was completely restored, her eyelids righted themselves, and the excrescences vanished. Dr.
Dozens assures me he examined this carefully himself. From
that day her eyelashes began to grow, and she has never
been so afflicted since.
"Justin Bontisharts, also of this place, had a rickety child
ten years old, which had much atrophied limbs, and had never
been able to walk. It got worse, and was thought to be near
its death. Dr. Dozens tells me he attended it, and was
present when the mother placed it under the stream of the
Lourdes water. It was motionless while so held, and the
bystanders therefore fancied it was dead already. The
mother took it home, placed it in its bed, and noticed that
it seemed to be in a tranquil sleep. Next day it woke with
a quite different expression of face, craved for food, ate freely,
and wanted to get up, but its parents were afraid to let it.
The following morning, while they were out to work, it got
up, and when they returned was walking about the room,
walking quite well, and has done so ever since.
"Louis Bourriettes, a stone quarryman, had his face severely
wounded, and his eyes injured by an explosion. One eye

304
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
got pretty well; the other remained so imperfect that with it
alone he could not distinguish a man from any other similarsized object at a few paces distance, and he was incapable of
doing his former work as a stone mason. This continued for
twenty years. At the time of his cure he was under Dr.
Dozens' care, as his eyes were then getting worse. He
washed, and was completely cured in the course of one day
Dr. Dozens met him in the street and would not believe he
was cured, and tested him by writing with a pencil on a piece
of paper that he had an incurable amaurosis of the right eye,
and when he read these words to the doctor, the latter was
dumfoundered, for Dr. Dozens was a materialist, and disbelieved in all things preternatural at that time. This case
is also vouched for by Dr. Vergez, of Bardges.
"M. Lacassogne, now of 6, Rue du Chai des Varine,
Bordeaux, formerly of Toulouse, had a son who had for three
years been unable to swallow a morsel of solid food. Both
the doctors of Toulouse told me of this case, but Dr. Nogues
was his principal medical attendant. Dr. Noguds is still an
unbeliever, but he told me he felt bound in justice to declare
that his patient was a good obedient child of a sanguine temperament, and not at all nervous or hysterical. When wasting
to the extreme from imperfect nutrition, he was instantaneously
cured in the fountain, and has eaten freely solid food ever since.
His father was a Voltairean, and was converted by this fact
in his family.
"Finally, Dr. Rogues, of Toulouse, told me that his own
daughter had recently had a most remarkable cure, and this
was also told me by Dr. Dozens, of Lourdes. Dr. Rogues
is short-sighted, his sons are short-sighted, and his father is
short-sighted. No wonder, then, that his daughter was also
short-sighted. It was a case of heredity-congenital shortsightedness. The mother was exceedingly desirous as her
daughter grew up that she might be able to see like ordinary
people, and took her to Lourdes, when, in an instant, she
became ordinarily long-sighted. On her return her father
would not believe till he had tested her himself by making
her read to him at distances which would have been quite

xxxvI] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 305

impossible at any previous period of her life. The next

morning he told me that being very anxious on the subject,

he called her as soon as possible to his window, and pointing

out a distant inscription told her to read it to him. She said,

'I can't, papa; it's Latin.' He told her then to read him the

letters, which, to his delight, she did. This change had

continued permanent up to my visit to him last Tuesday."

To appreciate fully the weight of this evidence, received

at first hand from the best of witnesses-the medical men

who had attended the patients cured, and who were all more

or less strongly prejudiced against the whole thing-the

reader should make himself acquainted with some portion of

the mass of equally good evidence to be found in various

French works, or in the Rev. R. F. Clarke's "Lourdes and

its Miracles" (1887). The detailed history of the origin of

the spring at Lourdes, and of all the succeeding events, by

M. Henri Lasserre, is both interesting and instructive to the

spiritualist. His book, " Notre Dame de Lourdes," had gone

through one hundred and twenty-six editions in I892, and

had been translated into eleven European languages. It is

written from the point of view of an enthusiastic Roman

Catholic, and exhibits Bernadotte Soubirons as a modern

representative in character and in psychical faculties of Joan

of Arc. The second volume, published fourteen years later,

under the title (" Les Episodes Miraculeux de Lourdes," contains a detailed record with confirmatory documents of five

cases of remarkable cures at Lourdes.

In 1862, M. Lasserre himself was cured of an affection of

the eyes which rendered him unable to read or write, and

which the best specialists in Paris declared to be incurable.

Any attempt to read even the largest print, and however

shaded from bright light, produced intense pain. He was

persuaded to send for some Lourdes water, and received a

small bottle. He washed his eyes for a few minutes, drank

the remainder, and was instantaneously cured. He declares

that he at once read a hundred pages of a book of which, an

hour before, he could not have read three lines. This wonderful cure caused him to become the historian of Lourdes,

VOL. II.  X

306
MY LIFE
[CHAP,
and he devoted several years to collecting materials direct
from every person on the spot who could give him information, as well as from all contemporary records and official
documents bearing on the question. The book was published
in I869, and the second volume of "Episodes" in 1883.
The most remarkable feature of these cures is their rapidity,
often amounting to instantaneousness, which broadly marks
them off from all ordinary remedial agencies. One of the
most prominent of these, related by M. Lasserre, is that of
Francois Macary, a carpenter of Lavaur. He had had varicose veins for thirty years; they were as thick as one's finger,
with enormous nodosities and frequent bleedings, producing
numerous ulcers, so that it had been for many years impossible for him to walk or stand. Three physicians had declared
him to be absolutely incurable. At sixty years of age he
heard of the cures at Lourdes, and determined to try the
waters. A bottle was sent him. Compresses with this were
applied in the evening to his two legs. He slept well all
night, and early next morning was quite well; his legs were
smooth, and there was hardly a trace of the swollen veins,
nodosities, and ulcers. The three doctors who had attended
him certify to these facts.
Other cases are of long-continued paralysis, declared
hopeless by the physicians; one of serious internal injuries
due to an accident, and declared incurable. The lady had
suffered extreme pain for seven years, had been unable to
walk, and every remedy tried had been useless. She had
at various times consulted five doctors, in vain. Two of
these signed statements that she had been cured instantaneously, and could now walk and perform all the ordinary
actions of a healthy person without suffering the slightest
pain. One of them says, "This cure, so sudden, so unprecedented, so unexpected, is for me a fact positively marvellous.
There is in it something of the divine-an intervention beyond
the natural, visible, incontestible, of a nature to baffle the
reason. For nature does not usually proceed thus,* and
when she operates she acts always with a wise deliberation.
-A. Maugni" (" Les Episodes Miraculeaux," p. 486).

xxxvIJ TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 307
In an introductory note to "A Lourdes avec Zola," by Felix
Lacaze, Dr. Bernheim states that, "We cure at Nancy the
same morbid manifestations that Lourdes cures; medical
faith acts like religious faith; that is what I know! " And
M. Lacaze, throughout his book, imputes all the cures to
belief, expectation, faith. But the student of psychical research and of spiritualism, if he examines the records
carefully, will see reason to doubt these general statements.
He will meet with cases which are so closely parallel with
what every experienced inquirer meets with as to indicate a
similarity of cause. I allude to the very common occurrence
at sdances, when messages are being given, to so word them
as to contradict the expectation of every one present. I
have often seen this myself. At other times the inquirer
expects a message from a particular person, has gone to the
s&ance with the express purpose of obtaining it, but instead
gets a message from some one else. All this is clearly for
the purpose of answering the common objection-your "expectation" was read by the medium, and produced the
wished-for word or message. Now, among the five cases
given by M. Lasserre, one of the most striking serves to
illustrate thisspecial feature. A paralyzed Abb6 of good family,
and of the most firm and genuine religious faith, is yet so
humble that he does not expect a miracle to be performed
in his favour. More to please his family and friends than
himself, he goes to Lourdes, and it is so arranged that he
shall attend the grand service of the Assumption, when all
his clerical friends are convinced he will be cured, and they
excite in him the same belief. But though all the ceremonies
have been fulfilled, nothing happens, and he resigns himself to
the conviction that it is not the will of God that he should
be cured. But when attending another service the next day,
and not expecting anything, he suddenly feels a conviction
that he is well, rises from his couch, kneels down, and prays.
From that moment he is perfectly cured. Here we seem to
see the time of the cure arranged for the very purpose of
demonstrating that it is not expectation or faith that causes
the cure, although it may sometimes be a helping condition.

308
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
It is clear from these accounts by fervent Catholics that they
see in all these cures, not any special effect of the water-that
is only an outward sign-but a real spiritual agency, which
they believe to be that of the Virgin Mary. They also clearly
recognize that either the power or the will to cure is limited,
that only the few are cured, and that those few are not those
who are the best, or the most religious, or the most deserving, but are, so far as can be seen, chosen at random.
This, again, exactly corresponds with modern spiritualistic
phenomena, which evidently depend upon special conditions
in the individuals termed mediums, which conditions do not
seem to consist in any superiority of mind or character.
There is another point which seems indicated by the
detailed narratives of these remarkable cures. This is, that
not only are they rare cases, but that they have been, as it
were, selected and induced to try the Lourdes water often by
a very unusual combination of circumstances. If we look
upon these cures as analogous to those of the many "healers "
in the modern spiritualistic world-Dr. Newton, the Zouave
Jacob, Mr. Spriggs, and many others, and performed probably
by a band of spirit-healers of exceptional power, and who
wish to produce that effect upon character which such apparently miraculous cures by the supposed direct agency of
the Virgin are calculated to produce-it is not improbable
that they should be always searching for cases of ordinarily
incurable disease, which are yet amenable to their powers.
Having found any such, and having satisfied themselves
that a cure is possible, and having perhaps already begun to
effect such a cure in a way not perceptible to the patient, it
then becomes necessary to induce him to make use of the
means which will have the desired effect on his own mind
and of those who hear of it. Hence the often curious combination of circumstances which first induce the patient to
go to Lourdes (or use the water), and then to go at a
particular time, even on a particular day. This may be
necessary, both because at a particular stage only can the
cure be instantaneously or rapidly effected, also because, if
delayed, the patient might feel himself getting better, and

xxxvIlTWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 309
the moral effects of a cure, supposed to be by the Virgin
(or any other saint), be lost. The detailed narratives certainly show that in several cases a moral and religious, as
well as a physical, renovation has been effected.
We have here an explanation of these events which is, I
submit, much more complete than that which declares them
all to be of the same nature as cures occurring through
hypnotic suggestion, because in these cases there is no
hypnotizer, and often no suggestion or expectation. And
when we consider that the cures at the tomb of the Abbe
Paris in the early part of the eighteenth century, some of
which were even more wonderful than any which have
occurred at Lourdes, were equally well attested, and compelled even David Hume to say-referring to one of these" Had it been a cheat, it would certainly have been detected
by such sagacious and powerful antagonists,"' we see that
we have to do with a phenomenon which is one of the myriad
forms of spirit agency.
ROMANES AND DARWIN
I first made the acquaintance of Romanes in a rather
curious way. A letter appeared in Nature (February 5, i 880)
headed "A Speculation regarding the Senses," beginning
with this suggestive passage: "On examining the modes
of action of the senses, we find a series of advances in
refinement. Beginning with touch, we find it has primarily
to do with solids which come into direct contact with the
organ. In taste a liquid medium is necessary. In smell we
have minute particles carried by a gas. In hearing we have
vibrations (longitudinal) in a gas. In sight, finally, we find
transverse vibrations transmitted by a finer medium, the
ether." The writer then goes on to suggest that thought, or
brain-vibrations, may also be carried by the ether to other
I A very full account of these cures is given in Howitt's "History of V
the Supernatural," and an abstract in my c" Miracles and Modern Spiritualism '
(pp. 9-I2).

3Io
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
brains, and thus produce thought-transference, which, he
suggests, might be termed a kind of "induction of thought,"
and he thinks this is supported by the experiences of most
people, and especially " by the ascertained facts of clairvoyance
and mesmerism." This letter was signed "M."
In the next issue of Nature was a letter signed " F. R. S.,"
objecting to "M." for speaking, in a scientific journal, of the
facts of mesmerism and clairvoyance as being "ascertained,"
adding, however, that they ought to be thoroughly investigated,
that he is prepared to do so if he can find suitable material,
and that he will give wide publicly to his results. He then
says, " If the phenomena should admit of repetition I should
have them witnessed and attested to by a selected number
of the leading scientific men of the day." He therefore
begs for assistance in carrying out his experiments, letters
to be addressed c/o the Editor of Nature.
To this request I replied, pointing out to him that many
scientific men, such as Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Gregory, and Dr.
Haddock had thoroughly examined and tested mesmerism
and clairvoyance, getting only abuse or ridicule, and that he
was rather sanguine in thinking that any experiments of his
would convince the scientific world, or that they would even
condescend to witness and test them, and referred to my
own experience with Tyndall and Carpenter, and those of
Crookes with the Royal Society. This brought me the following letter from Romanes, and I have now little doubt
that "M." of the first communication to Nature was my friend
Mivart, as I do not know any other man likely to have
written on such a subject, and to have spoken in such an
assured way of clairvoyance, which was, of course, a comparatively small matter after his experiences above related.
It is rather curious that these two men should have been
thus brought together without knowing it, and in relation
to a subject as to which neither of them made any public
acknowledgment of what he believed. The majority of
their readers, I have no doubt, look upon them as biologists,
and have no idea that they were also inquirers into
spiritualism.

XXXVI] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 3I1
"I8, Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park,
"February I7, I880.
"DEAR SIR,
" I am very glad that you have been so kind as to
answer my letter in Nlature, for the fact of your having done
so supplies me with an opportunity, which I have long desired
to bring about, of obtaining the benefit of your advice
upon the methods of conducting an inquiry into the facts
of 'spiritualism.' You will not wonder that I should have
desired this opportunity when I tell you that one or two facts,
which you might consider almost commonplace, have profoundly staggered me, and led me to feel it a moral duty no
less than a matter of unequalled interest, to prove the subject
further. As a biologist I knew the quality of your scientific
work, and the general character of your mind, and knowing
also your intellectual attitude towards the subject in which
my interest was awakened, I greatly desired to meet you.
But by some fate you always seemed to be the only scientific
man of the day whom I never did meet, and I felt it would be
imprudent to force any questions upon you unsolicited, as I
knew Mr. Crookes to be very reticent, and feared you might
be the same.
" Now for what you very truly say about the uselessness of
any one man, ' however eminent,' trying to prove the truth
of the phenomena to the world. This I think is only as it
ought to be. The phenomena are of an order so astounding
that proof of their reality must rest upon the authority of
more than one observer if the proof is to be commensurate
with its own requirements. What the precise number of
witnesses and what amount of accumulated authority ought
to be, or would be, held sufficient to justify a man of the
world in accepting the alleged facts as real facts, this is a
question I need not consider, for there can be no doubt that
some such number of witnesses and amount of competent
testimony would be sufficient for the purpose. But, looking
to the astounding nature of the alleged facts, I do not think
that this number and amount have yet been attained. An
exceedingly strong case, however, has been made out to

312
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
justify full and patient inquiry by at least several authoritative persons, and this is what I desire to get done. The
leading men of science have neither time nor inclination to
sift the grain from the chaff of these subjects, but if once
the grain were placed before them we should soon have the
bread. I think you are too despairing on the subject of
prejudice. That prejudice should exist in the matter is only
what common sense would expect, but I am convinced that
it would quickly yield to adequate proof. There is already
more than enough proof were the facts to be proved of any
ordinary kind; but as they are nothing less than miracles, a
further weight of proof is, I think, required to justify any one
who has not himself witnessed the facts, accepting the latter
on testimony. Therefore it is that in Nature I implied that
in my judgment the facts were not yet proven. But pray do
not suppose that I am blind to the importance of the testimony already accumulated. I should rather infer it is you
who are blind to that importance; I think you underrate the
impression which your own publications and that of your
few scientific co-operators have produced. I know that this
impression is in many minds profound, and has already
prepared the way to a full acceptance by the scientific world
of the facts; but before this can be, the latter must and ought
to be attested to by some important body of well-known
men.
"You will see, then, that far from imagining that the
world will take my authority on the subject as final, I do not
think that, looking to the nature of the facts, the world ought
to do so; and I similarly think that the world is not altogether
wrong in having weighed the amount of proof required to
substantiate a miracle against the weight of authoritative
testimony hitherto forthcoming, and in deciding to await
further testimony.
" I am myself in the position of the world; I want more
evidence to make me believe. If once I do believe and can
get any repeatable results to show, I shall insist upon the
best men in science and literature coming to see and telling
what they see.

xxxvi] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 313
" I am greatly obliged to you for your advice, but some
time I should like to have a talk with you to benefit by your
large experience of a subject with which I have hitherto had
but small acquaintance. Could you fix any date towards
the latter end of next month?
"I am, yours truly,
"GEo. J. ROMANES."
After receiving my reply I had another short letter, as
follows:" I am exceedingly pleased to hear that you are so disposed to assist me with your advice. Time, money, tolerance,
and patience I have in abundance, but I lack experience in
a subject which, till recently, I rejected as beneath consideration. Therefore, under various circumstances that may
arise, I doubt not that your advice may be of much service
to me. Thus already you have presented a point of no
small importance to me, viz. that I must not count too
confidently on being always able to repeat results, even
supposing them to be genuine. But, after all, my principal
object is to satisfy my own mind upon the subject. If I
could obtain any definite evidence of mind unassociated
with any observable organization, the fact would be to me
nothing less than a revelation --'life and immortality
brought to light ' --and although I might say to others,
'Come and see,' my chief end would have been attained
if I could say, 'I have found that of which the prophets (to
wit, Crookes, Wallace, Varley, and the rest) have spoken.'
" I will therefore be most happy to accept your invitation
to go to Croydon some day to gain some preliminary ideas
on the subject. I shall write again to fix a day."
These two letters express very clearly the writer's position
and general ideas, with which I myself was completely in
accord. They also are very characteristic of his somewhat
wordy and involved style of writing, and of some peculiarities
of character. But the first was specially interesting to myself by showing me that my book, which had been published
six years before, had really produced some effect among men

3I4
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
of science as well as among the general public, many of
whom, I knew, it had induced to investigate and, as a
consequence of their investigation, to become complete
converts. I will here mention a little incident that shows
how people were accustomed to speak on the subject in the
popular tone of contemptuous incredulity, even when they
had reason to accept some of the facts. One evening, while
having tea after a Royal Institution lecture, I heard the late
Professor Ansted and a friend (not knowing I was just
behind them) mention spiritualism, and the professor
remarked, "What a strange thing it is such men as Crookes
and Wallace should both believe in it!" To which the other
replied, with a laugh, " Oh, they are mad on that one subject."
As soon as the friend had turned away I addressed Ansted,
telling him I had heard what he and his friend had been
saying, and asked him if he had any knowledge whatever of
the subject. To which he replied, "Well, not much; but a
neighbour and friend of mine at Great Bealings has had the
most wonderful things happen in his house, which no one has
ever been able to find a cause for. He has often told me
about the bells ringing when no one was in the house. He
was a very clever man, and - am sure what he says is true,
and many people in the neighbourhood were witnesses of it."
This case I had referred to in my book, and it brought it
home to me more vividly to speak with a scientific man who
was a friend of the owner of the house where it occurred, and
had heard it from his own lips. This was shortly before
Professor Ansted's death from an accident, or he might
have become one of the band of "persecuted lunatics "-the
term by which my friend Mr. Guppy used to describe the
despised spiritualists.
To return now to Romanes. He called upon me at
Croydon, and I think I paid him a visit in town, and he then
told me how he had come to take so deep an interest in
spiritualism. Some time previously a member of his own
family-I think either a sister or a cousin-had been found to
have considerable mediumistic power. Through her he had
witnessed a good many of the usual phenomena-movements

xxxvi] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 315
and raps by which messages had been spelt out-together
with the usual perplexities which beset the beginner; the
messages being sometimes true and sometimes false, sometimes totally unexpected by any one present, at other times
seeming to be the reflex of their own thoughts. Yet he was
already absolutely convinced that the sounds and motions
-the physical part of the phenomena-were not caused in
any normal way by any of the persons present, and almost
equally convinced that the intelligence manifested was not
that of any of 'the circle. In some cases even his mental
questions were replied to. I gave him the best advice I
could, and for some years, being fully occupied with my
own domestic affairs and literary work, I saw or heard
nothing more of the subject he had been so intent upon. At
this I was not surprised, as he himself was writing a series of
works which gave him his scientific reputation, and I thought
it probable that, not getting the evidence he wanted, he had
given up the inquiry.
But seven years later, when I was in Canada, I obtained
a knowledge of the correspondence between Romanes and
Darwin before my interview with the former, as already
narrated in Chapter XXX. This was, to me, of extreme
interest because it showed how reticent Romanes was,
and how little he told me of the evidence he had really
obtained some years before, and of the profound impression it had made upon him. The letters then shown me
were very long and full of curious details of evidence,
the more important of which I took notes of. Darwin's
reply was of the usual kind-suggestion of clever trickery;
more investigation required; had no time to go into it
himself, etc. Of course I had no intention of referring
to these letters in any way without Romanes' permission,
but I thought I might some day ask him why he had not
mentioned having written to Darwin when corresponding
with me and discussing this very subject. But a year or two
later I was surprised by something he wrote as to one of the
"thought readers" then exhibiting in London, in a way
which implied that all such phenomena were clever trickery

316
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
by means of muscle-reading, although in his letter to Darwin
he had declared that his mental questions had been
answered.
But a cause of difference on a scientific question had since
arisen between Romanes and myself which led to complicacation. In I886 he read a paper to the Linnean Society,
which was printed in their Journal, entitled "Physiological
Selection: an additional suggestion on the Origin of Species."
This paper put forth what was really a new theory of the
origin of infertile races, which was supposed to account
for the infertility that so generally occurs between allied
species. It was very complex, and led to much discussion,
and before leaving for America I had criticized it in the
September issue of the Fortnightly Review. Later, I gave
what I considered a proof of its entire fallacy in my "Darwinism" (published in I889), and many other writers had
also given reasons for rejecting it. This rejection of a theory
which he evidently thought very highly of seems to have
been very unexpected and to have somewhat ruffled his
temper, as was very natural, or he would not, I think, have
written of me as he did, especially if we consider the letters
he had sent me four years previously. In an article in the
Nineteenth Century, of May, I890, he repeats a statement
which he had made before in other periodicals in the following words:-" He presents an alternative theory to explain
the same class of facts. Yet this theory is purely and simply,
without any modification whatsoever, a restatement of the
first principles of physiological selection, as these were originally stated by myself." To this and to a repetition of it in
the American magazine, The Monist, of October, I replied in
Nature, and I need only say here that the essential parts of
my theory were founded partly on facts established by
Darwin, and partly on a mathematical demonstration that
sterility could be increased by natural selection. This last
argument was stated by me in nearly the same form in
letters to Darwin in I868, eighteen years before Romanes
set forth his theory of physiological selection (see "More
Letters of Charles Darwin," vol. i. pp. 288-297). Further,

xxxvI] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 317
while this last theory has now, I believe, no supporters
my own view, so far as I know, has not been shown to be
unsound; and I do not think that the accusation of direct
and barefaced plagiarism is now aceepted by any naturalist
who has taken the trouble to follow the whole discussion.
But much worse than this was the following passage
referring to my "Darwinism," where he says it is in the concluding chapter of my book "that we encounter the Wallace
of spiritualism and astrology, the Wallace of vaccination and
the land question, the Wallace of incapacity and absurdity"
(Nineteenth Century, May, 1890, p. 831).
To this I made no public reply, since I was sure that all
whose opinion I valued would condemn this mode of discussing the problems of science. But I thought it afforded
an excellent opportunity to let my critic know what I
thought of his behaviour, and perhaps puzzle and frighten
him a little by exhibiting an acquaintance with facts which
he evidently wished to conceal. I accordingly wrote him the
following letter:"Parkstone, July I8, I890.
"DEAR MR. ROMANES,
"Some time back I read your article in the Nineteenth Century for May, but I have been so much occupied
that I have, till now, had no time to write about it. Whether
or no it was good taste for you to appeal to the political
and medical prejudices of your readers in a matter purely
scientific-by referring to my advocacy of land nationalization and opposition to vaccination-I leave others to judge.
I am quite satisfied myself that, in a not distant future, I
shall have ample credit given me on both these points. But
as to your appeal to popular scientific prejudice by referring
to my belief in spiritualism and astrology (which latter I
have never professed my belief in), I have something to say.
" In the year 1876 you wrote two letters to Darwin, detailing your experiences of spiritual phenomena. You told him
that you had had mental questions answered with no paid
medium present. You told him you had had a message

3I8
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
from Mr. J. Bellew, which message was worded in a manner
so unexpected that it was, till completed, thought to be
erroneous. And you declared your belief that some nonhuman intelligence was then communicating with you. You
also described many physical phenomena occurring in your
own house with the medium Williams. You saw 'hands,'
apparently human, yet not those of any one present. You
saw hand-bells, etc., carried about; you saw a human head
and face above the table, the face with mobile features and
eyes. Williams was held all the time, and your brother
walked round the table to prove that there was no wire or
other machinery (in your own room!), yet a bell, placed on a
piano some distance away, was taken up by a luminous hand
and rung, and carried about the room!
"Can you have forgotten all this?
"In your second letter to Darwin you expressed your conviction of the truth of these facts, and of the existence of
spiritual intelligences, of mind without brain. You said that
these phenomena had altered your whole conceptions. Formerly you had thought there were two mental natures in
Crookes and Wallace-one sane, the other lunatic! Now
(you said) you belonged to the same class as they did.
"Tell it not in Gath i There are, then, two Romanes as
well as two Wallaces. There is a Romanes ' of incapacity and
absurdity!!' But he keeps it secret. He thinks no one knows
it. He is ashamed to confess it to his fellow-naturalists; but
he is not ashamed to make use of the ignorant prejudice
against belief in such phenomena, in a scientific discussion
with one who has the courage of his opinions, which he
himself has not.
"Yours truly,
"ALFRED R. WALLACE."
His answer, written from Scotland on July 21, was as
follows:"DEAR MR. WALLACE,
"I am truly sorry to observe the tone of injury
which pervades your letter of the I8th inst., just received. It

xxxvI] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 319
certainly did not occur to me that I was hitting below the
belt in alluding to matters so notorious; but after receiving
this expression of your own opinion upon the matter, I shall
assuredly never do so again. Unfortunately what has been
done cannot be undone; but perhaps you will allow me to
say that, rather than have offended you in this way, I would
have suppressed the article altogether. Perhaps, also, I may
add that in giving public expression to my opinion on the
relative nature of your different lines of publication it seemed
to me that I was only making 'fair comment.' If you were
to say that you thought my writings on Darwinism betokened
'incapacity and absurdity,' but my experiments in physiology
the reverse, I do not think I should at all object. This,
however, is a matter of feeling about which it would be
fruitless to argue. So all that I can now do is to express my
sorrow, and promise never to allude to this subject again.
"'Astrology' I alluded to, because you once told me that
you were investigating it. You refused to hear argument
against it, and left me with the impression that you believed
in it.
"Touching my correspondence with Mr. Darwin, fourteen
years is a long time to remember details, and I kept no
copies. But I do clearly remember two points. The first is
that the letters were to be strictly private, and the next is
that they were to be regarded as provisional. Now, after
these letters were written, further work with Williams showed
him to be an impostor. I spent an immense deal of time and
trouble over the matter, and in the end withdrew the opinions
expressed in these letters.
" If you have gained your knowledge of their contents by
any occult process, I hope you will publish them as evidence,
which in that case I would not be wanting in courage to back.
But otherwise, in the event of your publishing them, I should
require to know the source from which they were obtained.
That it was not from Mr. Darwin himself, I am already
satisfied; if it was from any member of his family, the conditions under which they were written, and some time afterwards,
with my permission, submitted to their perusal, must have

320
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
been forgotten. In any case, I do not know that you ought
to have read them-but am not sorry that you did, if only to
show you that, although too credulous in the first instance, I
was at any rate not unopen to an honest conviction.
"Yours truly,
"GEO. J. ROMANES."
"Parkstone, July 27, 1890.
"DEAR MR. ROMANES,
"You are mistaken in thinking I wrote under a
sense of injury, and I do not think my letter showed it. I
merely pointed out that to assume, without any attempt at
proof, that my writings on vaccination and land nationalization showed incompetence and absurdity was appealing to
ignorant prejudice, and was therefore both unscientific and in
bad taste. My writings on these subjects are public property.
Pray, therefore, refer to them as much as you like, when you
have read them and can refer to them and criticize them
with knowledge of their facts and arguments. But this is a
comparatively small matter. The important part of my letter
and your reply refers to the spiritualistic phenomena.
" You now say you have found Williams to be an impostor.
But I presume you did not write to Darwin, trusting to
Williams' honesty, or to any statements that he made. You
set forth your own observations and precautions in proof of
the facts. Have you found out how the things you saw in
your own room and in the presence of your own friends were
done? Can you tell me how the bust and face, ' with moveable features and eyes,' appeared above your own table while
Williams was sitting beside you and firmly held? Can you
tell me how the 'luminous hand' was formed and worked,
which lifted a bell from a distant piano, rang it, and carried
it about, your brother walking round the table to see that no
wires had mysteriously fixed themselves in the room? You
knew then, as well as you know now, that almost all mediums
are accused of imposture; but you gave your experience as
evidence which did not admit of being explained by imposture.
How is this altered now, if you can no more explain this to

XXXVI] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 321

me than you could to Darwin? And were your own relatives impostors when you obtained answers to your mental

questions? Do not those experiments prove a non-human

intelligence now as they did when you wrote to Darwin? If

you cannot now explain these things, your change of opinion

has no logical justification. If you can explain them, I call

upon you to do so-if not to the scientific world, yet to

me, whom you have publicly accused of incompetence and

absurdity because I believe that phenomena of exactly the

same character as yours are realities and cannot be proved

to be impostures. As to your letters, copies of them were

handed to me to read by a person to whom (I was told) they

had been given without restrictions, and who was thus quite

justified in showing them to me. Of course I have treated

them, and shall treat them, as private letters; but they

interested me so much that I made full notes immediately

after carefully reading them, so that I possess their substance

and many of their very expressions. After the way you have

referred in print to my belief in such phenomena most persons

would think I was quite justified in making known the fact

of the existence of these letters and their general tenor. I

hope, however, you will not render any such course necessary.

I think your proper course would be to publish the letters

together with the full details of your discovery of the imposture, a discovery so complete as to induce you to change

those convictions you so earnestly and solemnly expressed to

Darwin.

" Hoping you will do so,

"I remain, yours faithfully,

"ALFRED R. WALLACE."

The next letter I will give the substance of. He stated

that soon after having written to Darwin he detected Williams

cheating. He then had a cage made of perforated zinc, and

when Williams sat in it nothing happened. This fact, he says,

logically justified his change of opinion. It could not be a

supernatural power, or why should the interposition of a perforated zinc cage have suspended the power? There was

VOL. II.                      Y

322
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
therefore nothing to publish. As to the answers to mental
questions, he only got them when his own hands were on the
table. He therefore concluded and still believes that he himself gave the initiatory impulse to move the table, which the
other sitters involuntarily intensified and carried out.
I will give my reply because it points out some of the
common fallacies of beginners in coming to hasty conclusions
from a few isolated facts.
"DEAR MR. ROMANES,
"As I do not wish to continue this correspondence,
I will confine myself to pointing out why I consider your
present position to be logically untenable and unscientific.
You admit you cannot explain what took place in your own
house, but you say, 'not being able to explain'is very far
from admitting it to have been done by supernatural means
(I would say 'supernormal' or 'preterhuman' rather than
supernatural; but that is a detail). You then describe the
'cage' you had made, with the result that nothing happened
when the medium sat within it; and you imply that if
phenomena had occurred when Williams was within it you
would have admitted something 'supernatural.' But why?
Simply because, in your own words, you could not explain
'how the trick was done.' To me, and I think to most
persons, what did occur-the 'luminous hand,' lifting a bell
at a distance, etc., etc.-was just as inexplicable, and just as
much a proof of something beyond 'trick,' as would have
been some physical effect produced outside the cage while
Williams was in it.
"Again, it is not 'scientific' to treat your own limited
experience as if it stood alone, and to refuse to admit all
evidence from other inquirers in corroboration. Although
your cage-test did not succeed, it did succeed with others.
Mr. Adshead, a gentleman of Belper, had a wire cage made,
and Miss Wood sat in it in his own house, many times, and
under these conditions many forms of men, women, and
children, appeared in the room. A similar cage was afterwards used by the Newcastle Spiritual Evidence Society, for

xxxVI] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 323
a year or more, and Miss Wood sat in it weekly. It was
screwed up from the outside, yet all the usual phenomena of
materialization occurred just the same as when no cage was
used. At other times Miss Wood sat in the circle visible to
all, yet other figures of various apparent ages came out of the
cabinet. Then again Mr. Varley, the electrician, applied the
electrical test to Miss Cook, she forming part of the circuit,
yet all the usual phenomena occurred. Crookes again used
the same test, with the same result; and he also saw Miss
Cook and the materialized form 'Katie' at the same time,
in his own house, and he photographed the latter. All these
facts and many others of like nature have been published,
and are known to all inquirers, and every investigator knows
that your failure to obtain phenomena under the test, was no
proof of any dishonesty in the medium, or of impossibility
of obtaining the phenomena under such conditions. Such
tests often require to be tried many times before success is
attained. To me, and I believe to most inquirers, it will
appear in the highest degree unscientific to reject phenomena
that could not possibly be due to imposture, and to ignore the
hundreds of corroborative tests by other equally competent
observers, and then, after this, to call all such observers (by
implication) fools or lunatics!
"Yet, again, your attempted explanation of the 'mental
question' test does not apply to the Bellew case, where you
expressly state that some of the words while being spelled
out were challenged by all present as being wrong, and were
yet insisted on by the unknown intelligence, and resulted,
contrary to the expectation of all, in --' I, John Bellew, fear
no being.'
"Yours truly,
"ALFRED R. WALLACE."
In reply to this, I received another long and very argumentative letter, admitting that from my point of view and
greater experience, my arguments were very strong, but that
from his point of view, with his "bias against the preterhuman," his refusal to accept any evidence, unless it could be

324
MIY LIFE
[CHAP.
repeated under " several reasonable alterations of conditions,
designed to exclude merely human powers of trickery," his
objections and his incredulity were quite logical and scientific.
He also urged that the mental tests and that of the unexpected answer about Bellew did not require any other
intelligence, because equally unexpected things and sayings
occurred in dreams, in which we ourselves supply the whole
of the matter dreamt of. He therefore thought "that a man
may, unconsciously, or subconsciously, supply the other side
of a dialogue when he is wideawake, just as well as he can
when he is fast asleep." This shows how ingenious was
my correspondent as a dialectician, and rendered me disinclined to carry on a further correspondence which seemed
likely to be a long one. He quite overlooked, however,
the circumstance that our correspondence began, not on
account of his being unconvinced by what he witnessed,
but by using the fact that I, after much longer experience
and a much wider acquaintance with the subject, had
been convinced, as a weapon against me in a scientific
argument.
However, on the whole, he took my criticism, and even
my ridicule, in very good part-better, in fact, than I expected
-and he was completely mystified when I told him that my
knowledge of his letters did not come directly or indirectly
through any of Darwin's family. In order to relieve their
minds of such a supposition, I told them how I got to see
copies of the letters.
In this letter, however, he gave me an account of a "sack
trick " he had seen, which he thought as wonderful as anything
he saw with Williams, but which he persuaded the performer
to show him the secret of. As I think this may interest my
readers, I will give it in his own words.
"But for the fact that he is now dead, I could have
introduced you to an American medium who would have
gone to your own house, and allowed you to furnish your
own cabinet, handcuffs, canvass sack, twine, sealing-wax, and
seal. Having fastened his hands together behind his back by
means of handcuffs as tightly as possible, you might have

xxxvI] TWO INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM 325
taken him to the cabinet, placed him inside the sack, tied the
mouth of the sack as tightly with the string as you could, and
sealed the knots and likewise the two ends of the string to
the outside of the sack. Lastly, you might have shut and
locked the cabinet door. Then after a period varying from
one to two minutes, you would have heard the medium
knock, and on opening the door would have found him
outside the sack with his hands handcuffed behind his back
as before-the mouth of the sack being wide open, and all
the knots and seals intact. This performance the medium
would repeat any number of times. Having seen him do
this I was completely baffled (as I was with Williams), and
so would you have been unless you can suggest 'how it was
done,' and unless I add, what I do now, that I persuaded this
man to explain the trick."
In reply to this I pointed out that the "sack " and handcuff trick involved only one essential operation, that of quickly
slipping his hands in and out of the handcuffs, and that this
was probably done partly by a natural mobility of the bones
of the wrists and hand, partly by induced suppleness by long
practice. That being done while being put into the sack
inside the cabinet when the movement of his arms would
not be noticed, he had only to insert one or two fingers in the
neck of the sack while it was being tied, and all the rest was
easy. Nothing was needed or done but to slip out of the
handcuffs and slip off the string tied round the neck of the
sack.
In the case of Williams, solid objects were moved which
were a long way from the medium, and two self-moving
objects - a luminous hand, and a head and face with movable features, were produced and seen by all while the medium
was held and one of the party looked on outside the circle.
And I asked him what became of these solid objects afterwards?
In his reply he said I was substantially right about the
way the "sack" trick was done. Also, that several years
afterwards Darwin wrote to him that Williams had been
detected by some one striking a light! He therefore felt

326          MY LIFE  [CHAP. XXXVI]

quite justified in disbelieving all he had once thought so

convincing.

Thus ended our correspondence on this subject; and, I

suppose, as a kind of amende honorable, my correspondent

asked me, the next year, to allow him to have a photograph

of myself for a forthcoming book of his on the Darwinian

theory! This I declined with thanks.

CHAPTER XXXVII
SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES IN ENGLAND AND
AMERICA
THE publication of my book in I874, not only brought me an
extensive correspondence on the subject, but led to my being
invited to take part in many interesting stances, and making
the acquaintance of spiritualists both at home and abroad.
As what I witnessed was often very remarkable, and forms a
sort of supplement to the " Notes of Personal Evidence " given
in my book, and also because these phenomena have had
a very important influence both on my character and my
opinions, it will be necessary here to give a brief outline of
them.
I attended a series of sittings with Miss Kate Cook, the
sister of the Miss Florence Cook, with whom Sir William
Crookes obtained such very striking results. The general
features of these stances were very similar, though there was
great variety in details. They took place in the rooms of
Signor Randi, a miniature painter, living in Montague Place,
W., in a large reception-room, across one corner of which a
curtain was hung and a chair placed inside for the medium.
There were generally six or seven persons present. Miss
Cook and her mother came from North London. Miss C.
was always dressed in black, with lace collar, she wore lacedup boots, and had earrings in her ears. In a few minutes
after she had entered the cabinet, the curtains would be
drawn apart and a white-robed female figure would appear,
and sometimes come out and stand close in front of the
curtain. One after another she would beckon to us to come
327

328
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
up. We then talked together, the form in whispers; I could
look closely into her face, examine the features and hair,
touch her hands, and might even touch and examine her ears
closely, which were not bored for earrings. The figure had
bare feet, was somewhat taller than Miss Cook, and, though
there was a general resemblance, was quite distinct in features,
figure, and hair. After half an hour or more this figure would
retire, close the curtains, and sometimes within a few seconds
would say, "Come and look." We then opened the curtains,
turned up the lamp, and Miss Cook was found in a trance in
the chair, her black dress, laced-boots, etc., in the most perfect
order as when she arrived, while the full-grown white-robed
figure had totally disappeared.
Mr. Robert Chambers introduced me to a wealthy Scotch
lady, Miss Douglas, living in South Audley Street, and at
her house I attended many sdances, and met there Mr.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, and several other London spiritualists.
Perhaps the most interesting of these were a series with Mr.
Haxby, a young man engaged in the post-office and a remarkable medium for materializations. He was a small man,
and sat in a small drawing-room on the first floor separated
by curtains from a larger one, where the visitors sat in a
subdued light. After a few minutes, from between the
curtains would appear a tall and stately East Indian figure
in white robes, a rich waistband, sandals, and large turban,
snowy white, and disposed with perfect elegance. Sometimes
this figure would walk round the room outside the circle,
would lift up a large and very heavy musical box, which he
would wind up and then swing round his head with one
hand. He would often come to each of us in succession, bow,
and allow us to feel his hands and examine his robes. We
asked him to stand against the door-post and marked his
height, and on one occasion Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood
brought with him a shoe-maker's measuring-rule, and at our
request, Abdullah, as he gave his name, took off a sandal,
placed his foot on a chair, and allowed it to be accurately
measured with the sliding-rule. After the sgance Mr. Haxby

XXXVII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
329
removed his boot and had his foot measured by the same
rule, when that of the figure was found to be full one inch
and a quarter the longer, while in height it was about half a
foot taller. A minute or two after Abdullah had retired into
the small room, Haxby was found in a trance in his chair,
while no trace of the white-robed stranger was to be seen. The
door and window of the back room were securely fastened,
and often secured with gummed paper, which was found intact.
On another occasion I was present in a private house
when a very similar figure appeared with the medium
Eglinton before a large party of spiritualists and inquirers.
In this case the conditions were even more stringent and the
result absolutely conclusive. A corner of the room had a
curtain hung across it, enclosing a space just large enough to
hold a chair for the medium. I and others examined this
corner and found the walls solid and the carpet nailed down.
The medium on arrival came at once into the room, and after
a short period of introductions seated himself in the corner.
There was a lighted gas-chandelier in the room, which was
turned down so as just to permit us to see each other. The
figure, beautifully robed, passed round the room, allowed
himself to be touched, his robes, hands, and feet examined
closely by all present-I think sixteen or eighteen persons.
Every one was delighted, but to make the seance a test one,
several of the medium's friends begged him to allow himself
to be searched so that the result might be published. After
some difficulty he was persuaded, and four persons were
appointed to make the examination. Immediately two of
these led him into a bedroom, while I and a friend who had
come with me closely examined the chair, floor, and walls,
and were able to declare that nothing so large as a glove had
been left. We then joined the other two in the bedroom,
and as Eglinton took off his clothes each article was passed
through our hands, down to underclothing and socks, so that
we could positively declare that not a single article besides
his own clothes were found upon him. The result was
published in the Spiritualist newspaper, certified by the names
of all present.

330
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
Yet one more case of materialization may be given,
because it was even more remarkable in some respects than
any which have been here recorded. A Mr. Monk, a nonconformist clergyman, was a remarkable medium, and in
order to be able to examine the phenomena carefully, and
to preserve the medium from the injury often caused by
repeated miscellaneous seances, four gentlemen secured his
exclusive services for a year, hiring apartments for him on a
first floor in Bloomsbury, and paying him a moderate salary.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood and Mr. Stainton Moses were two
of these, and they invited me to see the phenomena that
occurred. It was a bright summer afternoon, and everything
happened in the full light of day. After a little conversation,
Monk, who was dressed in the usual clerical black, appeared
to go into a trance; then stood up a few feet in front of us,
and after a little while pointed to his side, saying, " Look."
We saw there a faint white patch on his coat on the left side.
This grew brighter, then seemed to flicker, and extend both
upwards and downwards, till very gradually it formed a
cloudy pillar extending from his shoulder to his feet and
close to his body. Then he shifted himself a little sideways,
the cloudy figure standing still, but appearing joined to him
by a cloudy band at the height at which it had first begun to
form. Then, after a few minutes more, Monk again said
" Look," and passed his hand through the connecting band,
severing it. He and the figure then moved away from each
other till they were about five or six feet apart. The figure
had now assumed the appearance of a thickly draped female
form, with arms and hands just visible. Monk looked towards it and again said to us " Look," and then clapped his
hands. On which the figure put out her hands, clapped them
as he had done, and we all distinctly heard her clap following
his, but fainter. The figure then moved slowly back to him,
grew fainter and shorter, and was apparently absorbed into
his body as it had grown out of it.
Of course, such a narration as this, to those who know
nothing of the phenomena that gradually lead up to it, seems
mere midsummer madness. But to those who have for years

XXXVII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
331
obtained positive knowledge of a great variety of facts equally
strange, this is only the culminating point of a long series of
phenomena, all antecedently incredible to the people who talk
so confidently of the laws of nature. I will here just remark
that in the four cases of materialization now recorded, with
four different mediums, four different kinds of tests were
obtained without any interference with the conditions needed
for the production of the phenomena. In the first, with Miss
Cook, the figure was positively distinguished by unpierced
ears, while the circumstances were such that the medium
could not possibly have resumed her dress and concealed the
robes of the figure in the few seconds only that sometimes
elapsed between its disappearance and the examination of the
medium. With Mr. Haxby, the measurements both of body
and foot were so different as to prevent any possibility of
personation by the medium. With Mr. Eglinton, the impromptu and thorough search after the seance rendered
personation equally impossible; while the last case, in which
the whole process of the fornlation of a shrouded figure
was seen in full daylight, absolutely precluded any normal
mode of production of what we saw. I may mention that
Mr. Wedgwood assured me that in the course of their long
investigation they had had far more wonderful results. In
some cases, instead of a shrouded and somewhat shadowy
female figure, a tall robed male figure was produced, while
Mr. Monk was in a deep trance, and in full view.
This figure would remain with them for half an hour or
more, would touch them, and allow of close examination
of his body and clothing, and was so thoroughly, though
temporarily material, that it could exert considerable force,
sometimes even lifting a chair on which one of them was
seated, and thus carrying him around the room.
Now, however, that the whole series of similar phenomena
have been coordinated, and to some extent rendered intelligible, by Myer's great work on " Human Personality," it is to
be hoped that even students of physical science will no longer
class all those who have either witnessed such phenomena or
express their belief in them, as insane or idiotically cre dulous,

332
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
without even attempting to show how, under the same conditions, such effects can be produced.
Before leaving the subject of my experiences of spiritualism
and spiritualists in England, I will give a case of the strange
phenomenon called the " double," so well authenticated and
so instructive as to deserve to be here recorded. About the
year I874, Mr. Pengelly, of Torquay, had sent me his very
interesting critical article, "Is it a Fact?" in which, to my
great surprise, I found an anecdote describing the strange
appearance of the doubles of several persons to a friend of
his (apparently), as he says he can vouch for it. When, as
narrated in Chapter XXVI., we dined together at Glasgow,
I took the opportunity of asking him privately whether I was
right in my conjecture that the person to whom the event
happened was himself, thinly disguised under the pseudonym,
Mr. Hazelwood (Pengelly meaning in Cornish the head of the
hazel-grove). He replied, "You are right;" which led me to
read it again with still greater interest.
In I883, thinking the case would be one suited for the
Psychical Research Society, I sent the paper to my friend,
F. W. H. Myers, telling him what Mr. Pengelly had told me;
and Miss Pengelly has allowed me to copy a letter from Mr.
Myers to her father, thanking him for the additional information he had received about the case, and saying, that as the
distance at which the figures were seen was so small, "It is
almost inconceivable that you could have mistaken other
persons for your own family at that distance, especially as
the train must have been almost or quite at a standstill."
But he did not publish the case, and it was probably, among
the mass of other matter, forgotten. I now give the story as
it occurs in Mr. Pengelly's paper, "Is it a Fact?" (p. 32).
"The following case, for which I can vouch, may serve
to illustrate this.1 It will be found to be supported by both
personal and circumstantial evidence:-Mr. Hazelwood, of
Torquay, having a few years since to go to Dawlish, informed
' The disbelief in witchcraft, notwithstanding the mass of good testimony
supporting it.

XXXVII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES  333

his wife that he should return by the train due at Torre

Station at a certain hour, and suggested that she might,

with their two children, walk up to meet him, which she

agreed to do. On the return journey there was in the

same carriage with him a gentleman who had known MHts.

Hazelwood for several years, and who knew her children also.

It should be remarked that the family were in mourning, and

that the children were a boy and a girl, the former being the

older. At Newton Station Mr. Hazelwood bought a newspaper, and was reading it during the remainder of the journey.

He had, for a time, forgotten the arrangement made with his

wife, and he states that he certainly had not spoken of it to

any one. As the train drew near Torre Station his companion said, 'There's Mrs. Hazelwood and your two children

standing on the bank.' He at once looked in the direction

indicated, and distinctly saw a party, which he had not the

least doubt were his wife and boy and girl, standing on the

hedge or bank, which, under Chapel Hill, overlooks the railway. On leaving the station, instead of walking towards

Torquay, he went in the opposite direction, on the Newton

Road, to join them. On his way he met a man who had

known Mrs. Hazelwood from her childhood, and who volunteered the remark, 'You are going to join your wife and

family, I suppose. They are just above here, standing on the

hedge.' He proceeded to the spot, and to his surprise found

the party had left, and were nowhere to be seen. After some

fruitless search he proceeded to his own house, and found

his family just starting to meet him at the station, they

having forgotten the hour at which the train was due. Notwithstanding the fact that three persons, who knew them well,

were prepared to swear that they had seen Mrs. Hazelwood

and her children at a particular spot, notwithstanding the

further fact that this was just the spot where they had

previously, and without the knowledge of two of the witnesses,

agreed to be at the time, it was not a fact that Mrs. Hazelwood and her children had on that day been standing on the

hedge overlooking the railway near the station at Torre."

This is one of a large class of appearances termed

334
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
"doubles," some of the most curious of which I have
made use of in my chapters on " Phantasms" in my book
on "Spiritualism." This one is especially valuable, as being
recorded by a gentleman who was remarkable for the great
care he gave to attain accuracy in all his work; and it was
published under a well-understood pseudonym, in a place
where he had lived nearly all his life. But what is especially
remarkable is that the two independent witnesses had no
expectation of seeing the parties where the phantasms
appeared, while they themselves having mistaken the hour
the train was due could have had no special anxiety as to
being in time. And two of the persons seen being children,
the theory of the phantasms being caused by the three
" second selves" or "subliminal personalities," is very difficult
to conceive.
Among the eminent men whose first acquaintance and
valued friendship I owe to our common interest in spiritualism
was F. W. H. Myers, whose great work on "Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death" has so recently
appeared. I think I must have met him first at some seances
in London, and he asked me to call on him at his rooms in
Bolton Row, Mayfair. I think this was in 1878. I spent
several hours with him, discussing various aspects of spiritualistic phenomena. He told me a great deal about the long
series of experiments with the celebrated Newcastle mediums,
Miss Wood and Miss Fairlamb, both under twenty, and
whose powers had been discovered only two years previously,
who were engaged for twelve months by Professor Sidgwick,
Mr. Gurney, and himself, for a long series of stances in Newcastle, in London (at Mr. Balfour's house in Carlton Gardens),
and in Cambridge at Professor Sidgwick's rooms. He
showed me several MSS. books full of notes of these stances
of which he was the reporter, and drew my attention to some
which I read through. In addition, he described to me the
complete tests which were applied in order to render it certain
that the phenomena were not produced by the mediums
themselves. For example, a curtain across the corner of a

XXXvII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
335
room formed the cabinet. In this was placed a mattress and
pillow on the bare floor. The medium's wrists were tied
securely with tapes, leaving two ends a foot or more long.
These ends were tacked down to the floor, then covered with
sealing-wax and sealed. Under these conditions one or more
forms came out from the curtains, sometimes to a considerable distance and touched each one present. The light was
just sufficient to see the figures, which were sometimes those
of children, at other times of adults. Other phenomena
also occurred in the room. Afterwards the medium was
found either awake or still entranced, with the tapes, knots
and seals all apparently untouched.
But this was not thought sufficient to exclude imposture.
The medium might have provided herself with tape, tacks,
wax, and a copy of the seal, and by practice and ingenuity
be able to restore things to their original state after coming
out and personating the figures. To render this impossible
(or rather much less credible), at each slance the width, quality,
or colour of the tape was different, the sealing-wax was of
another colour, or a different seal was used, so that on no two
occasions were the conditions alike. Yet still the phenomena
went on occurring. Then a hammock was procured for the
medium to lie in, and this hammock, by means of pulleys,
was connected with a weighing machine, so that the medium
could not possibly leave it without instant detection. Yet
still the phenomena were produced, and the medium was
found afterwards comfortably lying in her hammock.
Of course such phenomena as these, however well established, were entirely out of place at so early a period of the
inquiries of the persons, who soon afterwards founded the
Society for Psychical Research. They wanted to create a
science-to make sure of the first steps before they went on to
the second; and, above all things, not to go on too fast, so
that the educated but sceptical public might be able to follow
them. They have now worked in this way for nearly a
quarter of a century; they have published a wonderful collection of well-attested evidence, and yet they are only now
beginning to approach very carefully and sceptically even the

336
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
simpler physical phenomena which hundreds of spiritualists,
including Sir William Crookes and Professor Zollner, demonstrated more than thirty years ago. As to the more advanced
phenomena, such as the disintegration and reproduction of
matter, and the various forms of materialization of the human
form or its parts, Mr. Myers himself, in his great work, only
alludes to them and indicates their possibility, without laying
special stress on the fact of their occurrence. The equally
well-attested phenomena of psychic photography are entirely
unnoticed, though they would easily be fitted into the great
structure he has erected based upon phenomena which he
considered to be demonstrated facts.
This method of very slow advance was, no doubt, necessary for the purpose of establishing what is really a new
science, and in the establishment of this science a foremost
place will always be given to Frederic Myers. He was the
first English writer to attempt to educe order out of the vast
chaos of psychic phenomena, to connect them with admitted
physical and physiological laws, and to formulate certain hypotheses which would serve to connect and explain a considerable portion of them.1 Yet there are indications that even
his careful examination of evidence and tentative suggestions
are still in advance of most of his fellow researchers; as
shown by the fact that since his greatly lamented death the
publications of the society have become retrograde rather
than progressive, by devoting space to the publication of
mere inconclusive or suspicious phenomena which are absolutely worthless, and by needlessly pointing out that certain
facts may possibly be explained by imposture or delusion.
Nevertheless, for the advanced "Researcher," Myers's great
work will long serve as a vast reservoir of classified information and a guide to further scientific research; while the
spiritualist will equally value it, and by its light will be able
to interpret the more advanced and more marvellous phenomena with which he is acquainted.
When talking to me about the remarkable stances with the
1 Robert Dale Owen's works, at a much earlier period, attempted the same
thing with more limited materials, but with remarkable success.

xxxvII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES

337

two Newcastle mediums, the entire series of which he attended

and recorded very carefully in the notebooks he shewed me,

he laid great stress upon the extremely rigid precautions that

were taken against the possibility of imposture, and conveyed to me the impression that he himself was quite convinced of the genuineness of the whole series. He also told

me that Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick only attended a portion

of the series, and that, unfortunately, several of the most

astounding and conclusive of the phenomena occurred in

their absence.

This is important, because Mrs. Sidgwick has published

an account of those she attended (in the Proceedings of the

Society for Psychical Research, vol. iv.), and has laid great

stress upon the inconclusive nature of the tests applied, though

she admits that it was exceedingly difficult, "but not perhaps

impossible," to impute the results to imposture. Under these

circumstances, it seems to me, that if these records of the

whole series of sdances by Mr. Myers are still in existence and

can be obtained, it is the duty of the Society, in justice to

the mediums (one of whom is still living), and in the interests

of science, to make the entire series public. Under the light

of our more advanced knowledge to-day, such a record by so

careful and so critical an observer, of so long-continued an

inquiry, must contain a mine of invaluable facts.

MY EXPERIENCES IN AMERICA.

During a lecturing tour in the United States in I886-87, I

stayed some time in three of the centres of American spiritualism-Boston, Washington, and San Francisco, and made the

acquaintance of many American spiritualists and inquirers,

with whom I attended many remarkable sMances. At Boston

I met the Rev. Minot J. Savage, whose latest work, "Can

Telepathy Explain?" contains such a collection of personal

experiences as have fallen to the lot of few inquirers;

Mr. F. J. Garrison, a son of the great abolitionist; Mr.

E. A. Brackett, a sculptor, and author of a remarkable

book on " Materialized Apparitions "; Dr. Nichols, author of

VOL. II.        Z

338 '
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
"Whence, Where, and Whither"; Professor James, of
Harvard, and several others.
I attended several stances at the house of Mrs. Ross, a
very good medium for materializations, in the company of
one or more of my friends. I will state what occurred on
one of these occasions. The seance took place in a front
downstairs room of a small private house, opening by sliding
doors into a back room, and by an ordinary door into the
passage. The cabinet was formed by cloth curtains across
the corner of the room from the fireplace to the sliding door.
One side of this was an outer wall, the other the wall of the
back room, where there was a cupboard containing a quantity
of china. I was invited to examine, and did so thoroughlyfront room, floor, back room, rooms below in basement,
occupied by a heating apparatus; and I am positive there
were no means of communication other than the doors for
even the smallest child. Then the sliding doors were closed,
fastened with sticking-plaster, and privately marked with
pencil. The ten visitors formed a circle opposite the cabinet,
and I sat with my back close to the passage door and
opposite the curtain at a distance of about ten feet. A redshaded lamp was in the furthest corner behind the visitors,
which enabled me to see the time by my watch and the outlines of every one in the room; and as it was behind me
the space between myself and the cabinet was very fairly
lighted. Under these circumstances the appearances were as
follows:(I) A female figure in white came out between the
curtains with Mrs. Ross in black, and also a male figure, all
to some distance in front of the cabinet. This was apparently
to demonstrate, once for all, that, whatever they were, the
figures were not Mrs. Ross in disguise.
(2) After these had retired three female figures appeared
together, in white robes and of different heights. These came
two or three feet in front of the curtain.
(3) A male figure came out, recognized by a gentleman
present as his son.
(4) A tall Indian figure came out in white mocassins; he

xxxvII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
339
danced and spoke; he also shook hands with me and others,
a large, strong, rough hand.
(5) A female figure with a baby stood close to the
entrance of the cabinet. I wes:t up (on invitation), felt the
baby's face, nose, and hair, and kissed it-apparently a real,
soft-skinned, living baby. Other ladies and gentlemen
agreed.
Directly the stance was over the gas was lighted, and I
again examined the bare walls of the cabinet, the curtains,
and the door, all being just as before, and affording no room
or place for disposing of the baby alone, far less of the other
figures.
At another special stance for friends of Dr. Nichols and
Mr. Brackett, with Professor James and myself-nine in
all, under the same conditions as before, eight or nine
different figures came, including a tall Indian chief in warpaint and feathers, a little girl who talked and played with
Miss Brackett, and a very pretty and perfectly developed
girl, " Bertha," Mr. Brackett's niece, who has appeared to him
with various mediums for two years, and is as well known to
him as any near relative in earth-life. She speaks distinctly,
which these figures rarely do, and Mr. Brackett has often
seen her develop gradually from a cloudy mass, and almost
instantly vanish away. But what specially interested me
was, that two of the figures beckoned to me to come up to
the cabinet. One was a beautifully draped female figure,
who took my hand, looked at me smilingly, and on my
appearing doubtful, said in a whisper that she had often met
me at Miss Kate Cook's stances in London. She then let me
feel her ears, as I had done before to prove she was not the
medium. I then saw that she closely resembled the figure
with whom I had often talked and joked at Signor Randi's, a
fact known to no one in America.
The other figure was an old gentleman with white hair and
beard, and in evening-dress. He took my hand, bowed, and
looked pleased, as one meeting an old friend. Considering
who was -likely to come, I thought of my father and of
Darwin, but there was not enough likeness to either. Then

340
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
at length I recognized the likeness to a photograph I had of
my cousin Algernon Wilson, whom I had not seen since we
were children, but had long corresponded with, as he was an
enthusiastic entomologist, living in Adelaide, where he had
died not long before. Then I looked pleased and said, "Is
it Algernon?" at which he nodded earnestly, seemed very
much pleased, shook my hand vigorously, and patted my
face and head with his other hand.
These two recognitions were to me very striking, because
they were both so private and personal to myself, and could
not possibly have been known to the medium or even to any
of my friends present. I may state here that a few months
afterwards, a party of twelve gentlemen went to a stance at
Mrs. Ross's, determined to seize hold of the alleged spirit
forms, which they believed to be all confederates, and thus
expose the supposed imposture. It was agreed that some were
to seize the Indian, others to hold Mr. and Mrs. Ross, others
the women and children performers, while the remainder
were to assist when called upon and secure any "properties"
they could find in the cabinet. They carried out the first
part of their programme successfully, but notwithstanding
they were twelve men against two men, one woman, two
boys and a little girl (according to their own account), they
appear to have been entirely overmatched in the struggle, for
they did not succeed either in securing or identifying any one
of them, or in carrying away any of the alleged paraphernalia of imposture. They further declared, as if it were an
observed fact, that the assistants, young and old, entered the
cabinet by a sliding portion of the mop-board (or skirting, as
we call it). Immediately this was published in the Boston
papers, Mr. Brackett and some other friends of Mrs. Ross
called on the landlord of the house and asked him to go with
them, taking a carpenter with them, to see if the tenants had
made any such alteration as described by the would-be
exposers. The examination was made, and it was declared
that there was no such opening as alleged, nor had any been
made and closed up again. I wrote a letter to the Banner of
Light, pointing out these facts, and I urged, that the utter

XXXVII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
34I
failure of twelve men, who went for the express purpose of
detecting and identifying confederates, utterly failing to do so
or to secure any tangible evidence of their existence, is really
a very strong proof that there were no confederates to detect.
To any one who has carefully studied Mr. Myers's monumental volumes, and given due weight to the whole of the
evidence he adduces for the reality of such phenomena as
are here narrated and what is known of the various stages
that lead up to them; and considering the proof that even
detached hands are capable of moving material objects, it
will, I think, appear probable that some such result as here
occurred was to be anticipated. I cannot remember a single
instance in which a confederate has been secured by such a
seizure, though cases have occurred in which the seizure of
the spirit form has resulted in the seizure of the mediumwhich is not remarkable if we remember the amount of evidence showing that these forms originate from the body of the
medium, and either visibly or invisibly return to it. Also,
considering the demonstrated fact that clothing, flowers, hair,
and other objects pertaining to or brought by these psychic
forms have sometimes a permanent, sometimes a temporary
existence, the fact of any such objects being found on or
near a medium is of itself no proof whatever that they were
brought by the medium for purposes of imposture, except on
the assumption that no such phenomena were possible, in which
case no evidence one way or the other is required, since the
question has been already decided against the medium.
In Washington, where I resided several months, I made
the acquaintance of Professor Elliott Coues, General Lippitt,
Mr. D. Lyman, Senator and Mrs. Stanfield, Mr. T. A. Bland
the Indians' friend, and Mrs. Beecher Hooker, all thorough
spiritualists, as well as many others unknown to fame. With
the three former gentlemen I attended the seances of a very
remarkable public medium, Mr. P. L. 0. A. Keeler, and both
witnessed phenomena and obtained tests of a very interesting
kind. The medium was a young man of the clerk or tradesman class, with only the common school education, and with

342
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
no appearance of American smartness. The arrangement of
his sdances was peculiar. The corner of a good-sized room
had a black curtain across it on a stretched cord about five
feet from the ground. Inside was a small table on which
was a tambourine and hand-bell. Any one, before the sdances
began or afterwards, could examine this enclosed space, the
curtain, the floor, and the walls, as I did myself, the room
being fully lighted, and was quite satisfied that there was
absolutely nothing but what appeared at first sight, and no
arrangements whatever for ingress or egress but under the
curtain into the room. The curtain, too, was entire from end
to'end, a matter of importance in regard to certain phenomena
that occurred. Three chairs were placed close in front of this
curtain on which sat the medium and two persons from the
audience. Another black curtain was passed in front of
them across their chests so as to enclose their bodies in a
dark chamber, while their heads and the arms of the outer
sitter were free. The mediums two hands were placed on the
hands and wrist of the sitter next him.
The sdance began with purely physical phenomena. The
tambourine was rattled and played on, then a hand appeared
above the curtain, and a stick was given to it which it seized.
Then the tambourine was lifted high on this stick and
whirled round with great rapidity, the bell being rung at the
same time. All the time the medium sat quiet and impassive,
and the person next him certified to his two hands being on
his or hers. On one occasion a lady, a friend of Professor Elliott
Coues and a woman of unusual ability and character, was
the sitter, and certified at all critical times during the whole
sdance that the medium's hands were felt by her. After these
and many other things were performed, the hand would
appear above the curtain, the fingers moving excitedly. This
was the signal for a pencil and a pad of note-paper (as commonly used in America); then rapid writing was heard, a slip
of paper torn off and thrown over the curtain, sometimes
two or three in rapid succession, and in the direction of certain
sitters. The director of the sdance picked them up, read the
name signed, and asked if any one knew it, and when claimed

xxxvIIJ SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
343
it was handed to him. In this way a dozen or more of the
chance visitors received messages which were always intelligible to them and often strikingly appropriate. I will give
some of the messages I thus received myself.
On my second visit a very sceptical friend went with us,
and seeing the writing-pad on the piano marked several of
the sheets with his initials. The medium was very angry
and said it would spoil the stance. However, he was calmed
by his friends. When it came to the writing the pad was
given to me over the top of the curtain to hold. I held it
just above the medium's shoulder, when a hand and pencil
came through the curtain, and wrote on the pad as I held it.
It is a bold scrawl and hard to read, but the first words seem
to be, " Friends were here to write, but only this one could....A.W." Another evening, with the same medium, I
received a paper with this message, "I am William Martin,
and I come for Mr. William Wallace, who could not write
this time after all. He wishes to say to you that you shall
be sustained by coming results in the position you have
taken in the Ross case. It was a most foul misrepresentation."
This, and other writing I had afterwards, are to me striking
tests in the name William Martin. I never knew him, but
he was an early friend of my brother who was for some
time with Martin's father to learn practical building, the
latter being then engaged in erecting King's College. When
I was with my brother learning surveying, etc., he used often
to speak of his friend Martin, but for the last forty-five years
I had never thought of the name and was greatly surprised
when it appeared. About a month later I had the following
message from the elder Martin, written in a different
hand:
"MR. WALLACE,
"Your father was an esteemed friend, and I
like to come to you for his sake. We are often together.
How strange it seems to us here that the masses can so long
exist in ignorance. Console yourself with the thought that

344
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
though ignorance, superstition and bigotry have withheld
from you the just rewards to which your keen enlightenment
and noble sacrifices so fully entitle you, the end is not yet,
and a mighty change is about to take place to put you where
you belong.
" WILLIAM MARTIN."
I have no evidence that this Mr. Martin was a friend of
my father, but the fact that my brother William was with
him as stated (which must have been a favour), renders it
probable. On the same evening there were a number of
messages to about a dozen people all in different handwritings, several of which were recognized. My friend General
Lippitt had a most beautiful message which he allowed me
to copy, as it was a wonderful test and greatly surprised and
delighted him. His first wife had died twenty-seven years
before in California. She was an English lady and he was
greatly attached to her. This is the message:"DARLING FRANCIS,
"I come now to greet you from the high spheres to
which I have ascended. Do you recall the past? Do you
remember this day? This day I used to look forward to and
mention with such pride? This, my darling, is my birthday
anniversary. Do you not remember? Oh how happy shall
we be when reunited in a world where we shall see as we are
seen and know as we are known.
"ELIZABETH LIPPITT."
General Lippitt told me it was his first wife's birthday,
that he had not recollected it that day, and that no one in
Washington knew the fact but himself.
A German gentleman who was present had a message
given him, which was not only written, as he declared, in
excellent German, but was very characteristic of the friend
from whom it purported to come.
On this evening most wonderful physical manifestations
occurred. A stick was pushed out through the curtain. Two

xxxvII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
345
watches were handed to me through the curtain, and were
claimed by the two persons who sat by the medium. The
small tambourine, about ten inches diameter, was pushed
through the curtain and fell on the floor. These objects
came through different parts of the curtain, but left no holes
as could be seen at the time, and was proved by a close
examination afterwards. More marv-llous still (if that be
possible), a waistcoat was handed to me ver the curtain,
which proved to be the medium's, though his ic.t was left
on and his hands had been held by his comparion all the
time; also about a score of people were looki.g on all the
time in a well-lighted room. These things s sm impossible,
but they are, nevertheless, facts.
Before passing on from my Washington friends, I wish to
give one curious test which occurred to General Lippitt
recently, and an account of which he sent to me in February,
1894. In his early life he had lived in Paris, and had become
acquainted with several members of the Bonaparte family,
and had rendered some services to them. This was only
known to himself, but it accounted (to him) for the fact that
he had, through different mediums, received messages from
some of them, and from Napoleon III. In August, I893, he
had stances with a medium previously unknown to him, and
received on a slate under test conditions a long message in
French, purporting to come from Napoleon III., and to give
his last dying thoughts. A facsimile of this is given in a
Chicago paper, and is written as if it were an ordinary prose
message; but on copying it out I found that it was in rhyme,
and, so far as I could judge, very forcible, and even pathetic
verse. I therefore sent a copy of it to Mr. F. Myers, asking
him what he thought of it, and whether it was correctly
written. In reply he told me that he had paid special attention to the rules of French poetry, and that this was correct
verse such as no one but a Frenchman could have written.
General Lippitt, who was a good French scholar, observes
that there is only one error in it-the omission of the final
" e " in the word profonde near the end, which is doubtless an
oversight, when all the other refinements of the language, as

346
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
well as the numerous accents, are correct. General Lippitt
also prints a certificate that the medium knew no French;
but that is quite unnecessary in view of the test conditions.
Esprit C., who signs it, is one of the medium's guides who
knows French.
"L'Heure sonne! on la compte; elle n'est d6jh plus:
L'airain n'annonce, h6las! que des moments perdus.
Son redoutable son m'epouvante, m'6veille;
Et c'est la voix du temps qui frappe h mon oreille.
S'il ne m'abuse point, le lugubre m6tal
De mon heure dernitre a donn6 le signal:
C'est elle!.. ou retrouver tant d'heures 6coul6es?
Vers leur source lointaine elles sont refoulees;
Le seul effroi me reste et l'espoir est banni.
I1 faut mourir, finir, quand je n'ai rien finf,
Ou vais-je? et quelle scene a mes yeux se deploie
Des bords du lit funebre, ou palpite sa proie
Aux lugubres clartes de son pAle flambeau,
L'impitoyable mort me montre le tombeau.
Eternit6 profonde: Oc6an sans rivage:
De ce terme fatal c'est toi que j'envisage;
Sur le fleuve du temps, quoi? c'est l1 que je cours?
L'ternit6 pour l'homme? il vit si peu de jours."
Esprit C.
At San Francisco my time was short, and my experiences
were limited to a slate-writing seance of a striking and very
satisfactory nature. I went with my brother John who had
lived in California nearly forty years, and who, the day
before, had bought a folding-slate bound with list to shut
noiselessly. The slance was in the morning of a bright
sunny day, and we sat at a small table close to a window.
Mr. Owen, the editor of the Golden Gate, with a friend (a
physician), accompanied us; but they sat a little way from
the table, looking on. The medium, Mr. Fred Evans, was
quite a young man, whose remarkable gift had been developed
under Mr. Owen's guidance.
From a pile of small slates on a side-table four were
taken at a time, cleaned with a damp sponge, and handed to
us to examine, then laid in pairs on the table. All our hands
were then placed over them till the signal was given, and on

XXXVIII SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
347
ourselves opening them writing was found on both slates.
Two other pairs were then similarly placed on the table, on
one of which the medium drew two diagonal pencil lines, and
on that slate writing was produced in five different coloursdeep blue, red, light green-blue, pale red-lilac, deep lilac, and
these could be seen all superposed upon the pencil crosslines. My brother's folding-slate was then placed upon the
floor a foot or two away from the table, and after we had
conversed for a few minutes, keeping it in sight, it was found
to be written on both the inner sides. It then occurred to
me to ask the medium whether writing could be produced on
paper placed between slates. After a moment's pause, as if
asking the question of his guides, he told me to take a paper
pad, tear off six pieces, and place them all between a pair of
slates. This I did, and we placed our hands over them as
before, and in a few minutes, on opening them, we found six
portraits in a peculiar kind of crayon drawing.
I will now describe what were the writings and drawings
we obtained, which are all now before me. The first was a
letter filling the slate in small, clear, and delicate writing, of
which I will quote the concluding portion: "I wish I could
describe to you my spirit home. But I cannot find words
suitable in your earthly language to give it the expression it
deserves. But you will know all when you join me in the
spirit world.... Your loving sister, Elizabeth Wallace.
Herbert is here."
Here are two family names given, the first being one
which no one present could have known, as she died when we
were both schoolboys. The opening and concluding parts of
the letter show that it was addressed specially to myself.
The next was addressed to my brother, referring to me as
"brother Alf," and is signed "P. Wallace." This we cannot
understand, as we have no relative with that initial, except
a cousin, Percy Wilson. It is, I think, not improbable that
in transferring the message through the medium, and perhaps
through a spirit-scribe (as is often said to be the case), the
surname was misunderstood owing to the latter supposing
that the communicant was a brother.

348
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
The next slate contains a message signed "Judge
Edmonds," addressed to myself and Mr. Owen, on the
general subject of spirit manifestations. It is written very
distinctly in a flowing hand.
The next is the slate written in five colours, and signed
"John Gray," one of the well-known early advocates of
spiritualism in America. It is also on the general subject
of spirit-return. Then comes a slate containing a portrait
and signature of "Jno. Pierpont," one of the pioneers of
spiritualism, and around the margin three messages in
different handwritings. One is from Stanley St. Clair, the
spirit-artist, who says he has produced the portrait for me,
at the request of the medium. The others are short messages
from Elizabeth Wallace and R. Wallace, the latter perhaps
one of the unknown Scotch uncles of my father, the other
beginning, " God bless you, my boys," is probably from our
paternal grandmother, who is buried at Laleham. The last
is my brother's folding-slate, containing on one side a short
farewell from "John Gray," the signature being written three
times in different styles and tints; the other side is a message
signed, "Your father, T. V. Wallace." This, again, was a
test, as no one present would have been able to give my
father's unusual initials correctly, and as he was accustomed
to sign his name.
The six portraits on paper with the lips tinted are those
of Jno. Pierpont (signed); Benjamin Rush (an early spiritualist,
signed); Robt. Hare, M.D., whose works I had quoted
(signed); D. D. Home, the celebrated medium who had died
the year before-a likeness easily recognized; a girl (signed
"The Spirit of Mary Wallace "), probably my sister who
had died the year before I was born, when eight years old;
and a lady, who was recognized as Mrs. Breed, a medium of
San Francisco. These are all rather rude outlines, in somewhat irregular and interrupted dashes, but they are all lifelike, and considering that they must have been precipitated
on the six surfaces while in contact with each other between
the slates, as placed by myself, are exceedingly curious.
The whole of these seven slates and six papers were produced

xxxvII] SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIENCES
349
so rapidly that the seance occupied less than an hour, and
with such simple and complete openness, under the eyes
of four observers, as to constitute absolutely test conditions,
although without any of the usual Paraphernalia of tests
which were here quite unnecessary. A statement to this
effect was published, with an account of the seance, signed by
all present.
During the last fifteen years I have rn t seen much of
spiritualistic phenomena; but those who have -ead the account
of my early investigations in my book on ti e subject, and
add to them all that I have indicated here, will see that
I have reached my present standpoint by a lcng series of
experiences under such varied and peculiar conaitions as to
render unbelief impossible. As Dr. W. B. CarFpenter well
remarked many years ago, people can only believe new and
extraordinary facts if there is a place for them in th'ir existing " fabric of thought." The majority of people to-acy have
been brought up in the belief that miracles, ghosts, and the
whole series of strange phenomena here described cannot
exist; that they are contrary to the laws of nature; that they
are the superstitions of a bygone age; and that therefore
they are necessarily either impostures or delusions. There is
no place in the fabric of their thought into which such facts
can be fitted. When I first began this inquiry it was the
same with myself. The facts did not fit into my then
existing fabric of thought. All my preconceptions, all my
knowledge, all my belief in the supremacy of science and of
natural law were against the possibility of such phenomena.
And even when, one by one, the facts were forced upon me
without possibility of escape from them, still, as Sir David
Brewster declared after being at first astounded by the phenomena he saw with Mr. Home, "spirit was the last thing I
could give in to." Every other possible solution was tried and
rejected. Unknown laws of nature were found to be of no
avail when there was always an unknown intelligence behind
the phenomena --an intelligence that showed ahuman character
and individuality, and an individuality which almost invariably

350
MY LIFE
[CHAP. XXXVII]
claimed to be that of some person who had lived on earth,
and who, in many cases, was able to prove his or her identity.
Thus, little by little, a place was made in my fabric of thought,
first for all such well-attested facts, and then, but more slowly,
for the spiritualistic interpretation of them.
Unfortunately, at the present day most inquirers begin at
the wrong end. They want to see, and sometimes do see the
most wonderful phenomena first, and being utterly unable to
accept them as facts denounce them as impostures, as did
Tyndall and G. H. Lewes, or declare, as did Huxley, that
such phenomena do not interest them. Many people think
that when I and others publish accounts of such phenomena,
we wish or require our readers to believe them on our testimony. But that is not the, case. Neither I nor any other
well-instructed spiritualist expects anything of the kind. We
write not to convince, but to excite to inquiry. We ask
our readers not for belief, but for doubt of their own infallibility
on this question; we ask for inquiry and patient experiment
before hastily concluding that we are, all of us, mere dupes
and idiots as regards a subject to which we have devoted our
best mental faculties and powers of observation for many
years.

CHAPTER XXXVIII
THE ANTI-VACCINATION CRUSADE
I WAS brought up to believe that vaccination was a scientific
procedure, and that Jenner was one of the great benefactors
of mankind. I was vaccinated in infancy, and before going
to the Amazon I was persuaded to be vaccinated again. My
children were duly vaccinated, and I never had the slightest
doubt of the value of the operation --taking everything on
trust without any inquiry whatever-till about I875-80, when
I first heard that there were anti-vaccinators, and read some
articles on the subject. These did not much impress me, as
I could not believe so many eminent men could be mistaken
on such an important matter. But a little later I met Mr.
William Tebb, and through him was introduced to some of
the more important statistical facts bearing upon the subject.
Some of these I was able to test by reference to the original
authorities, and also to the various Reports of the RegistrarGeneral, Dr. Farr's evidence as to the diminution of smallpox before Jenner's time, and the extraordinary misstatements
of the supporters of vaccination. Mr. Tebb supplied me
with a good deal of anti-vaccination literature, especially with
"Pierce's Vital Statistics," the tables in which satisfied me
that the claims for vaccination were enormously exaggerated,
if not altogether fallacious. I also now learnt for the first
time that vaccination itself produced a disease, which was
often injurious to health and sometimes fatal to life, and I
also found to my astonishment that even Herbert Spencer
had long ago pointed out that the first compulsory Vaccination Act had led to an increase of sm all-pox. I then began
351

352
MY LIFE
[CHAP
to study the Reports of the Registrar-General myself, and to
draw out curves of small-pox mortality, and of other zymotic
diseases (the only way of showing the general course of a
disease as well as its annual inequalities), and then found that
the course of the former disease ran so generally parallel to
that of the latter as to disprove altogether any special protective effect of vaccination.
As I could find no short and clear statement of the main
statistical facts adverse to vaccination, I wrote a short
pamphlet of thirty-eight pages, entitled "Forty-five Years of
Registration Statistics, proving Vaccination to be both Useless and Dangerous." This was published in 1885 at Mr. W.
Tebb's expense, and it had the effect of convincing many
persons, among whom were some of my personal friends.
A few years later, when the Royal Commission on Vaccination was appointed, I was invited to become a member of
it, but declined, as I could not give up the necessary time, but
chiefly because I thought I could do more good as a witness.
I accordingly prepared a number of large diagrams, and stated
the arguments drawn from them, and in the year I890 gave
my evidence during part of three days. As about half the
Commissioners were doctors, most of the others gave way to
them. I told them, at the beginning of my evidence, that I
knew nothing of medicine, but that, following the principle
laid down by Sir John Simon and Dr. Guy, that " the evidence
for the benefits of vaccination must now be statistical," I was
prepared to show the bearing of the best statistics only. Yet
they insisted on putting medical arguments and alleged
medical facts to me, asking me how I explained this, how I
accounted for that; and though I stated again and again that
there were plenty of medical witnesses who would deal with
those points, they continually recurred to them; and when I
said I had no answer to give, not having inquired into those
alleged facts, they seemed to think they had got the best of
it. Yet they were so ignorant of statistics and statistical
methods that one great doctor held out a diagram, showing
the same facts as one of mine, and asked me almost triumphantly how it was that mine was so different. After comparing

XXXVIII] THE ANTI-VACCINATION CRUSADE 353

the two diagrams for a few moments I replied that they were

drawn on different scales, but that with that exception I

could see no substantial difference between them. The other

diagram was on a greatly exaggerated vertical scale, so that

the line showing each year's death-rate went up and down

with tremendous peaks and chasms, while mine approximated

more to a very irregular curve. But my questioner could not

see this simple point; and later he recurred to it a second

time, and asked me if I really meant to tell them that those

two diagrams were both accurate, and when I said again that

though on different scales both represented the same facts, he

looked up at the ceiling with an air which plainly said, "If

you will say that you will say anything I "

The Commission lingered on for six years, and did not

issue its final report till i896, while the evidence, statistics, and

diagrams occupied numerous bulky blue-books. The most

valuable parts of it were the appendices, containing the

tables and diagrams presented by the chief witnesses,

together with a large number of official tables and statistics,

both of our own and foreign countries, affording a mass

of material never before brought together. This enabled

me to present the general statistical argument more completely and forcibly than I had done before, and I devoted

several months of very hard work to doing this, and brought

it out in pamphlet form in January, i898, in order that a

copy might be sent to every member of the House of

Commons before the new Vaccination Act came up for discussion. This was done by the National Anti-Vaccination

League, and I wrote to the half-dozen members I knew

personally, begging them to give one evening to its careful

perusal. But so far as any of their speeches showed, not one

of the six hundred and seventy members gave even that

amount of their time to obtain information on a subject involving the health, life, and personal freedom of their constituents. Yet I know that in no work I have written have I

presented so clear and so conclusive a demonstration of the

fallacy of a popular belief as is given in this work, which was

entitled "Vaccination a Delusion: its Penal Enforcement a

VOL. II.  2A

354
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Crime, proved by the Official Evidence in the Reports of the
Royal Commission." This was included in the second part
of my "Wonderful Century," published in June, I898, and
was also published separately in the pamphlet form, as it
continues to be; and I feel sure that the time is not far distant when this will be held to be one of the most important
and most truly scientific of my works.
The great difficulty is to get it read. The subject is
extremely unpopular; yet as presented by Mr. William
White in his " Story of a Great Delusion," it is seen to be at
once a comedy and a tragedy. The historian of epidemic
diseases, Dr. C. Creighton, the man who best knows the
whole subject, and should be held to be the greatest living
authority upon it, terms vaccination "a grotesque delusion."
'To inoculate a healthy child (or adult) with an animal
disease, under the pretence of protecting it from another
disease, the risk of having which is not one in a thousand,
would, if now proposed for the first time, be so repugnant to
every principle of sane medicine, as well as to common sense,
that its proposer would be held to be a madman. The
publication of this essay in the " Wonderful Century" (as one
of the "failures ") did lead to its being read by a considerable
number of persons, and, as I know, of making many converts.
With the hope of getting it read by Sir John Gorst, I sent a
copy of my pamphlet to Mr. F. W. H. Myers, asking him to
be so good as to read it carefully. In reply he wrote, "I
will read your pamphlet most carefully; will write and tell
you how it affects me; and will, in any case, send it on with
your letter and a letter of my own to Sir John Gorst, whom
I know well, and whom I agree with you in regarding
as the most accessible member of the Government. If I
am converted, it will be wholly your doing. I have read
much on the subject-Creighton, etc., and am at present
strongly pro-vaccination; at the same time, there is no
one by whom I would more willingly be converted than
yourself"
The letter then goes on to quite another matter, and I may
give the remainder further on.

xxxvIII] THE ANTI-VACCINATION CRUSADE 355
Two days later he wrote me again:" I can see no answer to your statistics and arguments.
Of course I should like to see what the doctors can say in
reply, as it is difficult to believe in such a widespread blunder.
But so far as the statistics with which you deal go-and that
is very far-I cannot imagine a convincing answer. I am
much obliged to you for letting me see the pamphlet; and I
shall hand it on to Sir John Gorst, with your letter and a
letter of my own.
"The unveracity of W. B. Carpenter, and especially of
Ernest Hart, ought not to surprise me after what I already
knew of their standards in controversy; but it is staggering
all the same."
Such a letter from so clear a reasoner and so thoroughly
honest and impartial a writer, was very satisfactory to me;
but some months later, in September I898, I received the
following quite unsolicited testimonial from a perfect stranger
to me-Lord Grimthorpe-an opponent in politics, but being
a King's Counsel and a mathematician, as well as an able
writer, was well fitted to form an opinion upon a rather complex statistical problem.
The letter is as follows:"Batch Wood, St. Albans, September I4, 1898.
"To DR. ALFRED R. WALLACE.
"SIR,
" I dare say you will excuse my troubling you with
this letter on a subject on which I do not profess to be an
expert, but on which it may again be my duty to form a
legislative judgment. Last session I was not able to go up
and sit through two probably late debates to vote; and, indeed,
I had not then made up my mind as I have now, though I
had written a short letter to the Times on the vacillation of
the Government about the Vaccination Bill.
" Since then I have been reading the chapter about it in
your recent book, the "Wonderful Century," and the subsequent letters in the Times; and those of yesterday,
especially Dr. Bond's, move me to tell you that, absurd as his

356
MY LIFE
LCHAP.
statement about your 'only three converts' is, he and his
associates may add me to their number. I do not profess to
have wandered through the thickets of the Commissioners'
contradictory Reports, but I have long learnt in controversies
involving facts, to take more account of the style of the controversialists, and their apparent regard for truth, than of their
assertions and references to other people, and the final
balance of voting. Specially I had to do so in the somewhat
similar controversy in the Times which lasted several months
in I887-8 in which, from the accident of being put in the
chair of a hospital meeting that had been called to turn out
some doctors for homoeopathic heresy, I had gradually to
take a leading part, being helped by information from the
experts on both sides as the dispute went on. Finally the
Times pronounced that I had completely proved the charges
of medical conspiracy and tyranny, which the 'orthodox'
party had been called upon at the meeting to answer, and
declined to attempt, except by their own dicta.'
"Such letters as that of Dr. Bond, even without the
answers to it, always go a long way to persuade me that the
author has no solid case; and I regard them as mere con.
troversial fireworks, throwing no real light on the subject of
discussion. In most controversies involving facts, it soon
becomes apparent to competent judges, after hearing the
professed experts, on which side is the balance of truth and
honesty, as it is very clearly in one of a very different kind
which has been going on in the Times for two months, on
what is calitd clerical and episcopal lawlessness, in which the
writers on one side think themselves at liberty to assert
anything that is 'necessary for, their position' (as their great
founder avowed fifty years ago), and take their chance of being
refuted.
" In your dispute, as in that, the really decisive facts are
becoming more and more extant from the intolerable mass of
assertions and references to other people's writings which are
worth very little in the face of current genuine evidence, such
as you and other writers on your side have produced in
manageable form, and which the other side have now had

XXXVIII] THE ANTI-VACCINATION CRUSADE 357
plenty of time to refute if they can, but certainly have not.
In such a case neither past nor present majorities go for much.
Indeed, a heavy discount may generally be taken off as
due to laziness, and the desire of most people to take the
apparently strongest side. I can only say that the more th~
vaccinationists go on writing and talking as they have done
for a long time, the more they are likely to be wrong and
conscious that they are so.
"Lest I should be thought to include your 'appendix'
of a socialistic nostrum or 'Remedy for Want' in my general
approval of your book, I think it prudent to add that I consider it more demonstrably wrong and ruinous to any country
that should adopt it than any disease that has ever been propagated; but I am not going to discuss that. I only add
that you may either publish this if you like, or announce me
as a ' fourth convert' to anti-vaccination under your treatment-and such as Dr. Bond's.
"Yours obediently,
" GRIMTHIORPE."
"Batch Wood, St. Albans, October 4, I898.
"To DR. F. T. BOND, Gloucester.
"SIR,
"I am much obliged to you for the copies of your
and Mr. Wallace's letters to the Echo. I have read them
carefully, and compared them with the chapter on Vaccination in his "Wonderful Century," and I have no hesitation in
giving my verdict as a 'juryman,' and not as an 'expert,' in
his favour.
"' I take it for granted that you have made as good a case
as anybody can on your side, and I have less doubt than before
that we (I mean Parliament) have done right in putting an
end, as the late Act practically has, to punishing parents for
refusing to have their children vaccinated at the risk, as they
believe, of doing them more harm than good. The few
magistrates who are taking upon themselves to judge of the
rightness of the belief will have to be taught that they are
breaking and not obeying or executing the law. Nobody will

358
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
pay a shilling for a certificate that he conscientiously (which
only means really) believes what he does not. If he did not
he would let them be vaccinated.
"Yours obediently,
"' GRIMTHORPE."
"F. T. Bond, Esq., M.D., Gloucester."
This letter is of the more importance, because Dr. Bond
was the only medical advocate of vaccination who attempted
any extended criticism of my work. He wrote long letters
in scores of newspapers all over the kingdom, some of which
I replied to, showing in every case of any importance that he
had either misrepresented or misunderstood my argument,
and had sometimes been guilty of misquotation. The great
features of my statistical argument were never dealt with by
him or any other critic. The medical journals were content
with pointing out minute and quite unimportant slips in
medical nomenclature or classification, and though my work
has now been before the public seven years, and has been
widely circulated, no attempt at rebutting the main statistical
argument has been made, no disproof has been adduced of
the long series of misstatements of fact or fallacies of reasoning which I have charged against the whole body of official
and medical advocates of vaccination. To Myers's very
natural remark, "I should like to see what the doctors can
say in reply," I can now answer, "They have made no
reply; and their single representative who attempted to do
so, only succeeded in convincing an able and independent
inquirer that they had 'no case.' "
In 1904, in view of a possible general election, I carefully condensed my pamphlet into a twenty-four page
tract, which treats the subject under the following seven
headings:(I) Why Doctors are not the best judges of the results of
Vaccination.
(2) What is proved by the best Statistical Evidence
available.
(3) London Death-rates during Registration.

XXXVIII] THE ANTI-VACCINATION CRUSADE 539
(4) Death-rates in England and Wales during the period
of Registration.
(5) Thirty years of decreasing Vaccination in Leicester,
and its Teachings.
(6) The Army and Navy: a Demonstration of the Uselessness of Vaccination.
(7) How to deal with Medical Pro-vaccinators.
This has been written specially to instruct voters, and to
enable them to catechise their parliamentary candidates and
any medical or other upholders of vaccination. I will here
give the last three paragraphs of what will probably be my
last word on this subject.
"Doctors and Members of Parliament are alike grossly
ignorant of the true history of the effects of vaccination.
They require to be taught; and nothing is so likely to teach
them as to show them the diagrams I have referred to in this
short exposition of the subject-those of London for thirty
years before and after vaccination --of England and Wales
during the period of official registration --of Leicester which
has almost abolished small-pox by refusing to be vaccinated
for thirty years-and for the Army and Navy --which, though
thoroughly re-vaccinated and therefore (according to the
doctors) as well protected as they possibly can be, yet die of
small-pox at least as much as badly vaccinated Ireland, and
many times more than unvaccinated Leicester.
"A doctor who has not studied these most vital statistics
has no right to an opinion on this subject.
" A candidate for Parliament who will not give the necessary time and attention to study them, but is yet ready to
vote for penal laws against those who know infinitely more of
the question than he does, is utterly unworthy to receive a
single vote from any self-respecting constituency."

CHAPTER XXXIX
A CHAPTER ON MONEY MATTERS-EARNINGS AND LOSSES
-SPECULATIONS AND LAW-SUITS
UP to the age of twenty-one I do not think I ever had a
sovereign of my own. I then received a small sum, perhaps
about X50, the remnant of a legacy from my grandfather,
John Greenell. This enabled me to get a fair outfit of
clothes, and to keep myself till I got the appointment at the
Leicester school. While living at Neath as a surveyor I did
little more than earn my living, except during the six months
of the railway mania, when I was able to save about ~CIoo.
This enabled me to go to Para with Bates, and during the
four years on the Amazon my collections just paid all
expenses, but those I was bringing home with me would
probably have sold for ~200. My agent, Mr. Stevens, had
fortunately insured them for ~I150, which enabled me to live
a year in London, and get a good outfit and a sufficient cash
balance for my Malayan journey.
My eight years in the Malay Archipelago were successful,
financially, beyond my expectations. Celebes, the Moluccas,
the Aru Islands, and New Guinea were, for English museums
and private collections, an almost unknown territory. A
large proportion of my insects and birds were either wholly
new or of extreme rarity in England; and as many of them
were of large size and of great beauty, they brought very
high prices. My agent had invested the proceeds from time
to time in Indian guaranteed railway stock, and a year after
my return I found myself in possession of about ~300 a year.
Besides this, I still possessed the whole series of private
360

CHAP. XXXIX)
MONEY MATTERS
36i
collections, including large numbers of new or very rare
species, which, after I had made what use of them was
needed for my work, produced an amount which in the same
securities would have produced about ~200 a year more.
But I never reached that comfortable position. Owing
to my never before having had more than enough to supply
my immediate wants, I was wholly ignorant of the numerous
snares and pitfalls that beset the ignorant investor, and I
unfortunately came under the influence of two or three men
who, quite unintentionally, led me into trouble. Soon after I
came home I made the acquaintance of Mr. R., who held a
good appointment under Government, and had, besides, the
expectation of a moderate fortune on the death of an uncle.
I soon became intimate with him, and we were for some years
joint investigators of spiritualistic phenomena. He was, like
myself at that time, an agnostic, well educated, and of a
more positive character than myself. He had for some years
saved part of his income, and invested it in various foreign
securities at low prices, selling out when they rose in value,
and in this way he assured me he had in a few years doubled
the amount he had saved. He studied price-lists and foreign
news, and assured me that it was quite easy, with a little care
and judgment, to increase your capital in this way. He quite
laughed at the idea of allowing several thousand pounds to
lay idle, as he termed it, in Indian securities, and so imbued
me with an idea of his great knowledge of the moneymarket, that I was persuaded to sell out some of my bonds
and debentures and buy others that he recommended, which
brought in a higher interest, and which he believed would
soon rise considerably in value. This change went on slowly
with various success for several years, till at last I had investments in various English, American, and foreign railways,
whose fluctuations in value I was quite unable to comprehcnd, and I began to find, when too late, that almost all my
changes of investment brought me loss instead of profit, and
later on, when the great depression of trade of i875-85
occurred, the loss was so great as to be almost ruin.
In i866 one of my oldest friends became secretary to a

362
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
small body of speculators, who had offices in Pall Mall, and
who, among other things, were buying slate quarry properties,
and forming companies to work them. Two of these properties
were in the neighbourhood of Dolgelly and Machynlleth, and
a party of us went down to see them. We were shown the
outcrop of the slate rock, followed it across the country, were
told it was of fine quality, and that there was a fortune in it
if properly developed. My friend's employer seemed to know
all about it, and as many large fortunes had been made out
of slate quarries, it seemed quite a safe thing. The slate was
undoubtedly there, as small portions had been worked and
split up, and we saw the piles of slates, and were assured that
the quality would be still better as it was worked deeper.
One of the veins had been found to be excellent for billiard
tables, and for all kinds of slate tanks, as it could be got
out in slabs of almost any size, and only wanted sawing and
planing machines worked by a small mountain brook close
by to become very profitable. Of course we were shown
reports by specialists, who declared that the slate rock was
abundant and good, and if properly developed would be
profitable.
I was persuaded to take shares, and to be a director of
these companies, without any knowledge of the business, or
any idea how much capital would be required. The quarries
were started, machinery purchased, call after call made, with
the result in both cases that, after four or five years of struggle,
the capital required and the working expenses were so great
that the companies had to be wound up, and I was the loser
of about a thousand pounds.
While this was going on a still more unfortunate influence
became active. My old friend in Timor and Singapore, Mr.
Frederick Geach, the mining engineer, came home from the
East, and we became very intimate, and saw a good deal of
each other. He was a Cornishman, and familiar with tin,
lead, and copper mining all his life, and he had the most
unbounded confidence in good English mines as an investment. He had shares in some of the lead-mines of Shropshire
and Montgomeryshire, and we went for a walking tour in that

XXXIX]
MONEY MATTERS
363
beautiful country, visited the mines, went down the shafts by
endless perpendicular ladders, and examined the veins and
workings with the manager, who had great confidence in its
value, and was a large shareholder. "Here," said Geach,
"you can see the vein of lead ore. It is very valuable, and
extends to an unknown depth. This is not a probability, it
is a certainty." And so I was persuaded to buy shares in
lead-mines, and gradually had a large portion of my capital
invested in them.
But here again, neither I nor Geach, nor hardly one in
England, knew of the insidious foe that in a remote part of
the world was preparing the way for the ruin of English leadmining. This was twofold: the great development of mining
in Spain by English capitalists; and, more important still, the
enormous amount of silver-mining in Nevada, United States,
where the ore contained lead and silver combined, so that as
the works extended large quantities of lead accumulated as
a kind of waste product, and much of this was exported to
Europe, and so lowered the price of lead that most of the
British lead-mines became unprofitable. About I870 the price
of lead began to fall, and has continued to fall, as has silver,
ever since. The result of all this was that by I880 a large
part of the money I had earned at the risk of health and life
was irrecoverably lost.
While these continued misfortunes were in progress I was
involved in two other annoyances, causing anxiety and worry
for years, as well as a very large money loss. The first was
with a dishonest builder, who contracted to build my house
at Grays, and who was paid every month according to the
proportion of the work done. One day, when the house was
little more than half finished, he did not appear to pay his
men, and as they would not continue to work without their
money I paid them. He did not appear the next week, and
sent no excuse, so the architect gave him notice that I should
complete the building myself, and that, according to the agreement, he would be responsible for any cost beyond the contract price. After a few weeks he appeared, and wanted to
go on, but that we declined. The house cost me somewhat

364
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
more than the contract price, and when it was finished I sent
him word he could have his ladders, scaffold-poles, boards,
etc., though, according to the agreement, they were to be my
property on his failure to finish the building.
I soon found, however, that he had not paid for a large
portion of the materials, and bills kept coming in for months
afterwards for bricks, timber, stone, iron-work, etc., etc. The
merchants who had trusted him found that he had no effects
whatever, as he lived as a lodger with his father; and from all
I heard, was accustomed to take contracts in different places
round London, and by not paying for any materials that he
could get on credit, make a handsome profit. But the height
of his impudence was to come. About five years after the
house was finished, I received a demand through a lawyer for
(I think) between -8oo and ~9oo damages for not allowing
this man to finish the house! I wrote, refusing to pay a
penny. Then came a notice of an action at law; and I was
obliged to put it in a lawyer's hands. All the usual preliminaries of interrogatories, affidavits, statements of claim,
replies, objections, etc., etc., were gone through, and on every
point argued we were successful, with costs, which we never
got. The case was lengthened out for two or three years, and
then ceased, the result being that I had to pay about Xioo law
costs for what was merely an attempt to extort money. That
was my experience of English law, which leaves the honest
man in the power of the dishonest one, mulcts the former
in heavy expenses, and is thus the very antithesis of justice.
The next matter was a much more serious one, and cost
me fifteen years of continued worry, litigation, and persecution,
with the final loss of several hundred pounds. And it was all
brought upon me by my own ignorance and my own faultignorance of the fact so well shown by the late Professor de
Morgan-that "paradoxers," as he termed them, can never
be convinced, and my fault in wishing to get money by any
kind of wager. It constitutes, therefore, the most regrettable
incident in my life. As many inaccurate accounts have been
published, I will now state the facts, as briefly as possible, from
documents still in my possession.

xxxIx] HAMPDEN AND THE FLAT EARTH    365

In Scientific Opinion of January 12, 1870, Mr. John

Hampden (a relative of Bishop Hampden) challenged

scientific men to prove the convexity of the surface of any

inland water, offering to stake ~500 on the result. It contained the following words: " He will acknowledge that he

has forfeited his deposit if his opponent can exhibit, to the

satisfaction of any intelligent referee, a convex railway, river,

canal, or lake." Before accepting this challenge I showed it

to Sir Charles Lyell, and asked him whether he thought I

might accept it. He replied, " Certainly. It may stop these

foolish people to have it plainly shown them." I therefore

wrote accepting the offer, proposing Bala lake, in North

Wales, for the experiment, and Mr. J. H. Walsh, editor of

the Field, or any other suitable person, as referee. Mr.

Hampden proposed the Old Bedford canal in Norfolk, which,

near Downham Market, has a stretch of six miles quite straight

between two bridges. He also proposed a Mr. William

Carpenter (a journeyman printer, who had written a book

upholding the "flat earth" theory) as his referee; and as Mr.

Walsh could not stay away from London more than one day,

which was foggy, I chose Mr. Coulcher, a surgeon and amateur

astronomer, of Downham Market, to act on my behalf, Mr.

Walsh being the umpire and referee.

The experiment finally agreed upon was as follows: The

iron parapet of Welney bridge was thirteen feet three inches

above the water of the canal. The Old Bedford bridge, about

six miles off, was of brick and somewhat higher. On this

bridge I fixed a large sheet of white calico, six feet long and

three feet deep, with a thick black band along the centre, the

lower edge of which was the same height from the water as the

parapet of Welney bridge; so that the centre of it would be

as high as the line of sight of the large six-inch telescope

I had brought with me. At the centre point, about three

miles from each bridge, I fixed up a long pole with two red

discs on it, the upper one having its centre the same height

above the water as the centre of the black band and of the

telescope, while the second disc was four feet lower down. It

is evident that if the surface of the water is a perfectly straight

366

MY LIFE

[CHAP.

line for the six miles, then the three objects-the telescope,

the top disc, and the black band-being all exactly the same

height above the water, the disc would be seen in the telescope

projected upon the black band; whereas, if the six-mile

surface of the water is convexly curved, then the top disc

would appear to be decidedly higher than the black band, the

amount due to the known size of the earth being five feet

eight inches, which amount will be reduced a little by refraction

to perhaps about five feet.

A r - -* r  -

A -1

The above diagrams illustrate the experiment made. The

curved line in Fig. i, and the straight line in Fig. 2, show the

surface of the canal on the two theories of a round or a flat

earth. A and C are the two bridges six miles apart, while B

is the pole midway with two discs on it, the upper disc, the

telescope at A, and the black line on the bridge at C, being

all exactly the same height above the water. If the surface

of the water is truly flat, then on looking at the mark C with

the telescope A, the top disc B will cover that mark. But if

the surface of the water is curved, then the upper disc will

appear above the black mark, and if the disc is more than

four feet above the line joining the telescope and the black

mark, then the lower disc will also appear above the black

mark. Before the experiment was made a diagram similar

to this was submitted to Mr. 'Hampden, his referee Mr.

Carpenter, and Mr. Walsh, and all three agreed that it

showed clearly what should be seen in the two cases, while

xxxIX] HAMPDEN AND THE FLAT EARTH 367
the former declared their firm belief that Fig. 2 showed what
would be seen.
When the pole was set up and the mark put upon the
bridge, Mr. Carpenter accompanied me, and saw that their
heights above the water were the same as that of the telescope
resting on the parapet of the bridge. What was seen in the
large telescope was sketched by Mr. Coulcher and signed by
Mr. Carpenter as correct, and is shown in the following
diagram which was reproduced in the Field newspaper (March
26, I870), and also in a pamphlet by Carpenter himself. But
"Signed by Mr. Carpenter."-Dr. Coulcher's Report. Signed! "
he declared that this proved nothing, because the telescope
was not levelled, and because it had no cross-hair!
At his request to have a spirit-level in order to show if
there was any "fall" of the surface of water, I had been to
King's Lynn and borrowed a good Troughton's level from a
surveyor there. This I now set up on the bridge at exactly
the same height above the water as the other telescope, and
having levelled it very accurately and called Mr. Carpenter
to see that the bubble was truly central and that the least
movement of the screws elevating or depressing it would
cause the bubble to move away, I adjusted the focus on to
the distant bridge, and showing also the central staff and its
two discs.

368
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Mr. Coulcher looked at it, and then Mr. Carpenter, and
the moment the latter did he said "Beautiful! Beautiful! "
And on Mr. Hampden asking him if it was all right, he
replied that it was perfect, and that it showed the three
points in "a perfect straight line;" "as level as possible! "
And he actually jumped for joy. Then I asked Mr. Coulcher
and Mr. Carpenter both to make sketches, which they did.
We then fixed a calico flag on the parapet to make it more
THE "BEDFORD LEVEL" SURVEY.-SKETCHES BY THE
TWO REFEREES.
Copied from the Field for March 26, I870.
2
_ 1____
These two views, as seen by means of the inverting telescope, are exact representations of the sketches taken by Mr. Hampden's Referee, and attested by Dr.
Coulcher as being correct in both cases: first, from Welney Bridge; and
secondly, from the OId Bedford Bridge.
visible, and drove back with the instruments to Old Bedford
bridge, where I set up the level again at the proper height
above the water, and again asked both the referees to make
sketches of what was seen in the level-telescope. This they
did. Mr. Carpenter's was rather more accurately drawn, and
Mr. Coulcher signed them as being correct, and both are
reproduced here.
For those who do not understand the use of a level, it
may be necessary to explain that the cross-hair in the optical
axis of the telescope marks the true level of any object at a
distance with regard to the telescope. Any point that is
seen above the cross-hair is above the level, any point seen
below the cross-hair is below the level, and in the latter case
the line from the telescope to it slopes downwards. To show

XXXIX] HA-MPDEN AND THE FLAT EARTH 369

this "true level" is the whole purpose of the instrument

called a surveyor's level, and it does show it with wonderful

accuracy. The mere fact, therefore, that the top disc on the

pole was apparently more below the cross-hair than the two

discs were apart, proved that the surface of the water was not

flat, or continuously extended in a straight line. And again

the fact that the distant signal was again about the same

distance, apparently below the middle one, as that was below

the telescope of the level, shows that the surface of the water

did not merely slope down in a straight line, but was curved

downwards with regard to its surface at the starting-point.

The following diagram will illustrate this:The lower curved line represents the supposed curved

surface of the water. The points A B C are three points

equi-distant above that surface. The top line from A is the

level line shown by the cross-hair in the level-telescope. If

the water surface had been truly level, the two points B and

C must have been cut by the cross-hair. But even if the

cross-hair did not show the true level, but pointed upwards,

and the water was truly level, then the distant mark, being

the same height above the water as the top disc at half the

distance and the telescope, these two objects must have

appeared in a straight line, the nearer one covering the more

distant. It should appear on the straight line drawn from

the eye at A through B, whereas it appears a long way below

it, thus proving curvature, the essential point to be shown.

Thus the view in the large telescope and in the leveltelescope both told exactly the same thing, and, moreover,

proved that the curvature was very nearly of the amount

VOL. IL  2B

370
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
calculated from the known dimensions of the earth. Mr.
Hampden declined to look through either telescope, saying
he trusted to Mr. Carpenter; while the latter declared positively that they had won, and that we knew it; that the fact
that the distant signal appeared below the middle one as far
as the middle one did below the cross-hair, proved that the
three were in a straight line, and that the earth was flat, and
he rejected the view in the large telescope as proving nothing
for the reasons already stated.
At first Mr. Hampden refused to appoint an umpire,
because my referee, Mr. Coulcher, refused to discuss the
question with Mr. Carpenter; but after a few days he agreed
that Mr. Walsh should be the umpire, after receiving the
reports of the two referees. He had, in fact, unbounded confidence in what Mr. Carpenter told him, and firmly believed
that the experiments had demonstrated the flat earth, and
that no honest man could think otherwise.
But Mr. Walsh decided without any hesitation that I had
proved what I undertook to prove. He published the whole
of the particulars with the reports of the referees and their
sketches in the Field of March I8 and 26, while a considerable correspondence and discussion went on for some weeks
later. At Mr. Hampden's request he allowed Mr. Carpenter
to send in a long argument to show that the experiments
were all in Mr. Hampden's favour, and having considered
them, he wrote to Mr. Hampden that he should hand me the
stakes on a certain day if he had no other reason to adduce
why he should not do so. Thereupon Mr. Hampden wrote
to him demanding his money back on the ground that the
decision was unjust, and ought to have been given in his
favour. In thus writing to Hampden and receiving his
demand for his deposit to be returned, Mr. Walsh made a
great mistake, which had serious consequences for me. The
law declares that all wagers are null and void, and that money
lost by betting is not recoverable at law. But the judges
have decided that when a wager is given against him by the
umpire, the loser can claim his money back from the stakeholder if the latter has not already paid it away to the winner.

xxxix] HAMPDEN AND THE FLAT EARTH 37I
Hence, if a loser immediately claims his money from the
stake-holder, the law will enforce the former's claim on the
ground that it is his money, and the fact that he has lost 'it
in a quite fair wager is beyond the cognizance of the law.
Neither I nor Mr. Walsh knew of this, although he had
decided and paid many wagers; but this resulted in my
having to pay the money back five years later, as will be
presently described.
I will now briefly state what were Hampden's proceedings for the next fifteen or sixteen years. He first began
abusing Mr. Walsh in letters, post-cards, leaflets, and pamphlets, as a liar, thief, and swindler. Then he began upon
me with even more virulence, writing to the presidents and
secretaries of all the societies to which I belonged, and to
any of my friends whose addresses he could obtain. One of
his favourite statements in these letters was, "Do you know
that Mr. A. R. Wallace is allowing himself to be posted all
over England as a cheat and a swindler? " But he soon
took more violent measures, and sent the following letter to
my wife:
"MRS. WALLACE,
"Madam-If your infernal thief of a husband is
brought home some day on a hurdle, with every bone in his
head smashed to pulp, you will know the reason. Do you
tell him from me he is a lying infernal thief, and as sure as
his name is Wallace he never dies in his bed.
"You must be a miserable wretch to be obliged to live
with a convicted felon. Do not think or let him think I
have done with him.
" JOHN HAMPDEN."
For this I brought him up before a police magistrate, and
he was bound over to keep the peace for three months, suffering a week's imprisonment before he could find the necessary sureties. But as soon as the three months were up, he
began again with more abuse than ever, distributing tracts
and writing to small local papers all over England. I now

372
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
began to receive letters from friends, and also from perfect
strangers, asking me if I knew what was said about me
everywhere. I will now give a summary of the steps I was
obliged to take with the results, or rather absence of results,
that followed.
In 1871, Mr. Walsh prosecuted Hampden for libel. He
was convicted at the Old Bailey, and bound over to keep the
peace for one year.
In January, I87I, I brought an action for libel in order to
give Hampden the opportunity of justifying, if he could, his
language towards me. He did not defend the action, but
suffered judgment to go by default, and the jury gave me a
verdict with ~600oo damages. But whatever property he had
had been transferred to his son-in-law (a solicitor), so I could
not get a penny, and had to pay the costs of the suit which,
though undefended, were heavy.
In October, 1872, I prosecuted him at the Old Bailey for
further libels. He was respited on publicly apologizing in
several newspapers.
On January I3, 1873, he was brought up again for fresh
libels, and was again respited on publishing a fuller apology
and complete recantation of all his charges, as follows:"PUBLIC APOLOGY. --I, the undersigned John Hampden,
do hereby absolutely withdraw all libellous statements published by me, which have reflected on the character of Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, and apologize for having published
them; and I promise that I will not repeat the offence. --
JOHN HAMPDEN."
This was published in several of the London daily papers
and in various country papers in which any of his letters had
appeared, and the judge gave him a serious warning that if
brought up again he would be imprisoned.
Some months afterwards, however, he began again with
equally foul libels, and I had him brought up under his
recognizances, when he was sentenced to two months'
imprisonment in Newgate.
But within a year he began again as violently as ever,
and on March 6, I875, he was indicted at Chelmsford Assizes

XXXIx] HAMPDEN AND THE FLAT EARTH 373
for fresh libels, and on proof of his previous convictions and
apologies, he was sentenced to one year's imprisonment and
to keep the peace, under heavy recognizances and sureties, for
two years more. (A full report is given in the Chelmsford
Chronicle, March 12, I875.)
Through the interest of his friends, however, he was
liberated in about six months; and thereupon, in January,
1876, he brought an action against Mr. Walsh to recover his
deposit of;50oo, and this action he won, on the grounds
already stated; and as I had signed an indemnity to Mr.
Walsh, I had to pay back the money, and also pay all the
costs of the action, about ~200 more. But as I had a judgment for ~687 damages and costs in my libel suit against
Hampden, I transferred this claim to Mr. Walsh as a set-off
against the amount due by him. Hampden, however, had
already made himself a bankrupt to prevent this claim being
enforced, and had assigned all his actual or future assets to
his son-in-law.
There were now legal difficulties on both sides. I was
advised that the bankruptcy was fraudulent, and could be
annulled; but to attempt this would be costly, and the result
uncertain. On the other hand, it was doubtful whether my
claim against Hampden would not be treated as an ordinary
creditor's claim in the bankruptcy. There was, therefore, a
consultation of the solicitors, and a voluntary arrangement
was arrived at. I was to pay all the costs of the suit and
120, amounting to ~277; while ~410 still remained nominally due to me from Hampden.
These terms were formally agreed to by Hampden and
his son-in-law, and were duly carried out. Of course I had
also to pay Mr. Walsh's costs in the action and my own
lawyer's bill for the settlement, as well as those of the action
for libel, and the various criminal prosecutions of Hampden I
had been compelled to undertake.
Notwithstanding this settlement, however, Hampden was
by no means silenced. The very day after his recognizancss
expired, in I878, he began again with his abusive post-cards,
circulars, and other forms of libel. In I885 he wrote and

374
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
printed a long letter to Huxley, as President of the Royal
Society, chiefly on his biblical discussion with Mr. Gladstone,
in a postscript to which he writes as follows:"I have thoroughly exposed that degraded blackleg,
Alfred Russel Wallace, as I would every one who publicly
identifies himself with such grossly false science, which he
had the audacity to claim to be true! If this man's experiment on the Bedford canal was founded on fact, then the
whole of the Scriptures are false, from the first verse to the
last. But your whole system is based upon falsehood and
fraud, and refusal of all discussion; and such characters as
Wallace seem to be your only champions." And he has an
appendix on "Modern Education conducted on Wrong
Principles," in which we find such gems as this:"When Mr. Mundella and Mr. Gladstone were schoolboys,
the educational professors were all newly indoctrinated with
the pretentious learning of the 'Principia' of Newton. The
Bible was not regarded as of any authority upon such
subjects, and a flood of writers were all extolling the immortal
genius of the 'incomparable mathematician.' Newton and
his apple-tree were spoken of as the foundation of all true
philosophy. The plausibly sounding phrases 'Attraction'
and 'Gravitation' were in every pedagogue's mouth, and
the poor children were birched into repeating them every
hour of their lives." And so on for three closely printed
pages.
About this time he printed one thousand copies of a twopage leaflet, and sent them to almost every one in my
neighbourhood whose address he could obtain, including
most of the masters of Charterhouse School, and the residents as well as the tradesmen of Godalming. It was full
of --" scientific villainy and roguery,"-" cheat, swindler, and
impostor." --" My specific charge against Mr. A. R. Wallace
is that he obtained possession of a cheque for;~i,ooo by
fraud and falsehood of a party who had no authority to
dispose of it."-" As Mr. Wallace seems wholly devoid of
any sense of honour of his own, I shall most readily submit
the whole matter to any two or more disinterested parties,

xxxIX] HAMPDEN AND THE FLAT EARTH              375

and adhere most absolutely and finally to their decision.""I will compel him to acknowledge that the curvature of

water which he and his dupes pretend was proved on the

Bedford Level, does not exist! And this Mr. Wallace saw

with his own eyes." And so on in various forms of repetition

and abuse. To save trouble, I drew up a short circular

stating the main facts already given here for the information

of those who had received Hampden's absurdly false libels,

and thereafter took no further notice of him.

One day about this time we happened to have several

friends with us, and as we were at luncheon, I was called to

see a gentleman at the door. I went, and there was Hampden! I was so taken aback that my only idea was to get rid

of him as soon as possible, but I afterwards much regretted

that I did not ask him in, give him luncheon, and introduce

him as the man who devoted his life to converting the world

into the belief that the earth was flat. We should at least

have had some amusement; and to let him say what he had

to say to a lot of intelligent people might have done him

good. But such " happy thoughts " come too late. He had

come really to see where I lived, and as our cottage and

garden at Godalming, though quite small, were very pretty,

he was able to say afterwards that I (the thief, etc.) was

living in luxury, while he, the martyr to true science, was in

poverty.

He continued to circulate his postcards and tracts, and

to write to all manner of people, challenging them to prove

that the earth was not flat, for several years after. The last

of his efforts which I have preserved is an eight-page tract,

which he distributed at the Royal Geographical Society's

Exhibition of Geographical Appliances, in December, 1885,

in which he attacks all geographical teaching in his usual

style, and declares that "at the present moment they are

cowering beneath the inquiring gaze of one single truthseeker, JOHN HAMPDEN, the well-known champion of the

Mosaic cosmogony, as against the infidel theories and superstitions of the pagan mystics, who is, at the end of fifteen

years' conflict, still holding his ground against all the

376
MY LIFE
(CHAP.
professional authorities of England and America; an-1 --
single fact that during the whole of that time, no one but a
degraded swindler has dared to make a fraudulent attempt
to support the globular theory, is ample and overwhelming
proofs of the worthless character of modern elementary
geography." And again: " Surveyors and civil and military
engineers are offered ~ioo for the discovery of any portion
of the earth's curvature, on land or water, railway or canal,
of not less than five or ten miles, within one hundred miles of
the metropolis. Why does not Mr. A. R. Wallace do again
what he says he has done before? " And in a list of advertisements of books, etc., supporting his views he has this
one: " Scientific Information wanted. A gentleman of ample
means and inquisitive disposition offers ~ioo for particulars
setting forth conclusively the grounds on which Sir Isaac
Newton's Globular Theory was presumably established or
asserted to be the fact."
And this man was educated at Oxford University!
Seldom has so much boldness of assertion and force of
invective been combined with such gross ignorance. And to
this day a society exists to uphold the views of Hampden,
Carpenter, and their teacher, "Parallax! "
The two law suits, the four prosecutions for libel, the
payments and costs of the settlement, amounted to considerably more than the ~500 I received from Hampden, besides
which I bore all the costs of the week's experiments, and
between fifteen and twenty years of continued persecution-a
tolerably severe punishment for what I did not at the time
recognize as an ethical lapse.
There is one other small money matter which I wish to
put on record here, because, though it involves only the small
sum of sixpence, it affords an example of official meanness,
and what really amounts to petty larceny, which can hardly
be surpassed. In i865 the British Museum purchased from
me some specimen (I think a skeleton) for which they agreed
to pay X5. Two years later I received the following printed
form:

XXXIX]
MONEY MATTERS
377
"Principal Librarian and Secretary's Office.
"British Museum, W.C., June 24, I867.
" Sir,
"If you will send your own stamped receipt to this
Office, you will be paid the amount due to you by the
Trustees of the British Museum, ~5 os. od.
"I am, sir,
"Your very obedient Servant,
"THOMAS BUTLER,
"Assist. Secretary."
"Mr. A. R. Wallace."
I, of course, complied with the request and sent the
stamped receipt, and by return of post had the following
written communication:
" Mr. Butler begs to transmit the enclosed P.O. order for
~44 I9s. 6d. to Mr. Wallace, and the amount of it, with the
cost of the order (6d), makes up the sum due by the Trustees
to Mr. Wallace.
" British Museum, June 25, I867."
This amazing little dodge (for I can call it nothing else)
completely staggered me. I was at first inclined to return
the P.O. order, or to write asking for the 6d., and if necessary
summon Mr. Butler (or the Trustees) to a County Court for
the 6d. due. But I was busy, and did not want to enter upon
what I felt sure would be a long correspondence and endless
trouble and expense. I therefore determined to keep the
two incriminating documents, and some day print them.
That day has now come; and it may be interesting to learn
whether this preposterous and utterly dishonest method of
paying part of an admitted debt, after obtaining a receipt for
the whole, continues to be practised in this or any other
public institution.
It was while these troubles in the Hampden affair were at
their thickest that my earnings invested in railways and mines

378
MY LIFE
LC HAP.
continued depreciating so constantly as to be a source of great
anxiety to me, and every effort to extricate myself by seeking
better investments only made matters worse. It was at this
time that the endeavour to get the Epping Forest appointment failed, and had it not been for the kindness of a relative,
Miss Roberts, of Epsom, a cousin of my mother's, with whose
family I had been intimate from my boyhood, I should have
been in absolute want. She had intended to leave me;iooo
in her will, but instead of doing so transferred it to me at
once, and as it was in an excellent security, and brought me
in from.~50 to ~65 a year, it was most welcome. I had sold
my house at Grays fairly well, and in i88o bought a piece of
land and built a cottage at Godalming, so that I had a home
of my own; but I had now to depend almost entirely on the
little my books brought me in, together with a few lectures,
reviews, and other articles. I had just finished writing my
"Island Life," and had no idea that I should ever write
another important book, and I therefore saw no way of
increasing my income, which was then barely sufficient to
support my family and educate my two children in the most
economical way. From this ever-increasing anxiety I was
relieved through the grant of a Civil Service pension of ~200,
which came upon me as a very joyful surprise. My most
intimate and confidential friend at this time was Mrs. Fisher
(then Miss Buckley), and to her alone I mentioned my great
losses, and my anxiety as to any sure source -of income.
Shortly afterwards she was visiting Darwin, and mentioned it
to him, and he thought that a pension might be granted
me in recognition of my scientific work. Huxley most kindly
assisted in drawing up the necessary memorial to the Prime
Minister, Mr. Gladstone, to whom Darwin wrote personally.
He promptly assented, and the next year, i88i, the first payment was made. Other of my scientific friends, I believe,
signed the memorial, but it is especially to the three named
that I owe this very great relief from anxiety for the remainder
of my life.
I have already stated that what at the time appeared to

XXXIX]
MONEY MATTERS
379
be the great misfortune of the loss of about half of my whole
Amazonian collections by the burning of the ship in which I
was coming home, was in all probability a blessing in disguise, since it led me to visit the comparatively unknown
Malay Archipelago, and, perhaps, also supplied the conditions
which led me to think out independently the theory of natural
selection. In like manner I am now inclined to see in the
almost total loss of the money value of those rich collections,
another of those curious indications that our misfortunes are
often useful, or even necessary for bringing out our latent
powers. I am, and have always been, constitutionally lazy,
without any of that fiery energy and intense power of work
possessed by such men as Huxley and Charles Kingsley.
When I once begin any work in which I am interested, I
can go steadily on with it till it is finished, but I need some
definite impulse to set me going, and require a good deal of
time for reflection while the work is being done. Every important book I have undertaken has been due to an impulse
or a suggestion from without. I spent five years in quiet
enjoyment of my collections, in attending scientific meetings,
and in working out a few problems, before I began to write
my "Malay Archipelago," and it was due to the repeated
suggestions of my friends that I wrote my "Geographical
Distribution of Animals."
But if the entire proceeds of my Malayan collections had
been well invested, and I had obtained a secure income of
~400 or /500o a year, I think it probable that I should not
have written another book, but should have gone to live
further in the country, enjoyed my garden and greenhouse
(as I always have done), and limited my work to a few lectures
and review articles, but to a much less extent than I actually
have done. It was the necessity of earning money, owing to
my diminishing income, that caused me to accept invitations
to lecture, which I always disliked; and the same reason
caused me to seek out subjects for scientific or social articles
which, without that necessity, would never have been written.
Under such conditions as here supposed, my dislike to lecturing
would probably have increased, and I should never have

380
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
ventured on my lecturing tour in America, in which case I
should not have written "Darwinism," and, I firmly believe,
should not have enjoyed such good health as I am now doing.
Then, too, I should probably not have accepted Dr. Lunn's
invitation to lecture at Davos, and my two later books would
never have come into existence.
Of course this is all conjecture, but it seems to myself
highly probable. At all events, I feel perfectly sure that
without the spur of necessity I should not have done much
of the work I have done. I have always had a great desire
to see many of the beauty-spots of the world. Some of them
I have seen, but usually under strict limitation of time and
means. I have longed to visit the old volcanoes of Mont
Dor6 or the Eifel, both for their geology and their rich
flora; the Dolomites and the Italian lakes; Pompei, and
Rome, and the lovely Riviera; Sicily and Greece; while
the little I have seen of Switzerland has made me wish to
see more. If I had had the means I should probably have
spent a good part of each winter, spring, or summer, in these
countries, and should have found such constant delight in
them, and in my garden at home, to which I should have
brought home every year new floral treasures, that I should
not have felt the want of any other occupation, and should
probably have written nothing but an occasional review or
magazine article. If, therefore, my books and essays have
been of any use to the world-and though I cannot quite
understand it, scores of people have written to me telling me
so-then the losses and the struggles I have had to go
through have been a necessary discipline calculated to bring
into action whatever faculties I possess. I may be allowed
here to give an extract from one of these letters on my
literary work, nearly the last I received from my lamented
friend F. W. H. Myers. He writes (April i2, I898):" I am glad to take this opportunity of telling you something about my relation to one of your books. I write now
from bed, having had severe influenzic pneumonia, now going
off. For some days my temperature was Io05, and I was very
restless at night-anxious to read, but in too sensitive and

xxxIx]      MONEY MATTERS      381

fastidious a state to tolerate almost any book. I found that

almost the only book which I could read was your 'Malay

Archipelago.' Of course I had read it before. In spite of

my complete ignorance of natural history there was a certain

uniqueness of charm about the book, both moral and literary,

which made it deeply congenial in those trying hours. You

have had few less instructed readers; but very few can have

dwelt on that simple, manly record with a more profound

sympathy."

Other people, quite strangers, have also told me that they

have read it over and over again, and always take it with

them on a journey. This is the kind of thing I cannot understand. It is true, if I open it myself I can read a chapter

with pleasure; but, then, to me it recalls incidents and feelings

almost forgotten, and renews the delights of my wanderings

in the wilderness and of my intense interest in the wonderful

and beautiful forms of plant, bird, and insect life I was continually meeting with. Others have written in almost equally

laudatory terms of my books on " Land Nationalization " and

on "Spiritualism," which have introduced them to new

spheres of thought; while others, again, have been equally

pleased with parts of my "Wonderful Century " and " Man's

Place in the Universe." I am thus forced to the conclusion

that my books have served to instruct and to give pleasure to

a good many readers, and that it is therefore just possible

that my life may have been prolonged, and conditions

modified so as to afford the required impulse and the amount

of time for me to write them.

Of course, such a suggestion as this will seem foolishness

or something worse to most of my readers; but for those

who are imbued with the teachings of modern spiritualism,

and to others who vaguely believe in spiritual guidance on

general religious grounds, such forms of what used to be

termed special providence will not be wholly rejected.

CHAPTER XL
MY CHARACTER-NEW IDEAS-PREDICTIONS
FULFILLED
I HAVE already (in Chapter XV.) given an estimate of my
character when I came of age. I will now make a few
further remarks upon it as modified by my changed views of
life, owing to my becoming convinced of the reality of a
spirit world and a future state of existence.
Up to middle age, and especially during the first
decade after my return from the East, I was so much disinclined to the society of uncongenial and commonplace
people that my natural reserve and coldness of manner often
amounted, I am afraid, to rudeness. I found it impossible, as
I have done all my life, to make conversation with such
people, or even to reply politely to their trivial remarks. I
therefore often appeared gloomy when I was merely bored.
I found it impossible, as some one had said, to tolerate fools
gladly; while, owing to my deficient language-faculty, talking without having anything to say, and merely for politeness
or to pass the time, was most difficult and disagreeable.
Hence I was thought to be proud, conceited, or stuck-up. But
later on, as I came to see the baneful influence of our wrong
system of education and of society, I began to realize that
people who could talk of nothing but the trivial amusements
of an empty mind were the victims of these social errors, and
were often in themselves quite estimable characters.
Later on, when the teachings of spiritualism combined
with those of phrenology led me to the conclusion that there
were no absolutely bad men or women, that is, none who, by a
382

[CHAP. XL]
MY NEW IDEAS
383
rational and sympathetic training and a social system which
gave to all absolute equality of opportunity, might not
become useful, contented, and happy members of society, I
became much more tolerant. I learnt also to distrust all first
impressions; for I repeatedly came to enjoy the society of
people whose appearance or manner had at first repelled me,
and even in the most apparently trivial-minded was able to
find some common ground of interest or occupation. I feel
myself,that my character has continuously improved, and
that this is owing chiefly to the teaching of spiritualism, that
we are in every act and thought of our lives here building up
a character which will largely determine our happiness or
misery hereafter; and also, that we obtain the greatest happiness ourselves by doing all we can to make those around us
happy.
As I have referred in various parts of this volume to ideas,
or suggestions, or solutions of biological problems, which I
have been the first to put forth, it may be convenient if I
here give a brief account of the more important of them,
some of which have, I think, been almost entirely overlooked.
I. The first and perhaps the most important of these is
my independent discovery of the theory of natural selection
in i858, in my paper on "The Tendency of Varieties to
depart indefinitely from the Original Type." This is reprinted
in my " Natural Selection and Tropical Nature;" and it has
been so fully recognized by Darwin himself and by naturalists
generally that I need say no more about it here. I have
given a rather full account of how it first occurred to me in
Chapter XXII. of this work.
2. In I864 I published an article on "The Development
of Human Races under the Law of Natural Selection," the
most original and important part of which was that in which
I showed that so soon as man's intellect and physical structure led him to use fire, to make tools, to grow food, to
domesticate animals, to use clothing, and build houses, the

384
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
action of natural selection was diverted from his body to his
mind, and thenceforth his physical form remained stable
while his mental faculties improved. This paper was greatly
admired by Mr. Darwin and several other men of science,
who declared it to be entirely new to them; but owing to its
having been published in one of my less known works,
"Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection," it
seems to be comparatively little known. Consequently, it
still continues to be asserted or suggested that because we
have been developed physically from some lower form, so in
the future we shall be further developed into a being as
different from our present form as we are different from the
orang or the gorilla. My paper shows why this will not be;
why the form and structure of our body is permanent, and
that it is really the highest type now possible on the earth.
The fact that we have not improved physically over the
ancient Greeks, and that most savage races-even some of
the lowest in material civilization-possess the human form in
its fullest symmetry and perfection, affords evidence that my
theory is the true one.
3. In 1867 I gave a provisional solution of the cause of
the gay, and even gaudy colours of many caterpillars, which
was asked for by Darwin, and which experiment soon proved
to be correct. This is referred to in Chapter XXI. of the
present volume, and is fully described in my "Natural
Selection and Tropical Nature," pp. 82-86. The principle
established in this case has been since found to be widely
applicable throughout the animal kingdom.
4. In I868 I wrote a paper on "A Theory of Birds'
Nests," the chief purport of which was to point out and
establish a connection between the colours of female birds
and the mode of nidification which had not been before
noticed. This led to the formulation of the following law,
which has been very widely accepted by ornithologists:
When both sexes of birds are conspicuously coloured, the nest
conceals the sitting bird; but when the male is conspicuously

XL]

MYT NEWV IDEAS

385

coloured and the nest is open to view, the female is plainly

coloured and inconspicuous. No less than fifteen whole families

of birds and a number of the genera of other families belong

to the first class, of brightly coloured birds with sexes alike,

and they all build in holes or make domed nests. Most of

these are tropical, but the woodpeckers and kingfishe. are

European. In the second class, however brilliant the aale

may be, if the nest is open to view, the female is a' /ays

plainly coloured, sometimes so much so as to be Xirdly

recognizable as the same species. This is especially t'; case

in such birds as the brilliant South American chattel -s and

the Eastern pheasants and paradise birds. This 1 v is of

especial value, as showing the exceptional need of pr tection

of female birds as well as butterflies, and the remarkable way

in which the colours of both classes of animals have become

modified in accordance with this necessity. This paper forms

chapter vi. of my " Natural Selection and Tropical Nature."

5. In the great subject of the origin, use, and purport of

the colours of animals, there are several branches which, I

believe, I was the first to call special attention to. The most

important of these was the establishment of the class of what

I termed " Recognition colours," which are of importance in

affording means for the young to find their parents, the sexes

each other, and strayed individuals of returning to the group

or flock to which they belong. But perhaps even more

important is the use of these special markings or colours

during the process of the development of new species adapted

to slightly different conditions, by checking intercrossing

between them while in process of development. It thus

affords an explanation of the almost universal rule, that closely

allied species differ in colour or marking even when the

external structural differences are exceedingly slight or quite

undiscoverable. The same principle also explains the general

symmetry in the markings of animals in a state of nature,

while under domestication it often disappears: difference of

colour or marking on the two sides would render recognition

difficult. This principle was first stated in my article on

VOL. II.        2C

386
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
" The Colours of Animals and Sexual Selection " (in " Natural
Selection and Tropical Nature," I878) and more fully
developed in "Darwinism." I am now inclined to think that
it accounts for more of the variety and beauty in the animal
world than any other purpose yet discovered.1
I may here add that I believe I was first to give adequate
reasons for the rejection of Darwin's theory of brilliant male
coloration or marking being due to female choice.
6. The general permanence of oceanic and continental
areas was first taught by Professor J. D. Dana, the eminent
American geologist, and again by Darwin in his " Origin of
Species;" but I am, I believe, the only writer who has
brought forward a number of other considerations, geographical
and physical, which, with those of previous writers, establish
the proposition on almost incontrovertible grounds. My
exposition of the subject is given in " Island Life " (chap. vi.),
while some additional arguments are given in my "Studies"
(vol. i. chap. ii.). The doctrine may be considered as the
only solid basis for any general study of the geographical
distribution of animals, and it is for this reason that I have
made it the subject of my careful consideration.
7. In discussing the causes of glacial epochs I have
adopted the general views of Mr. James Croll as to the
astronomical causes, but have combined them with geographical changes, and have shown how the latter, even though
small in amount, might produce very important results. In
particular I have laid stress on the properties of air and
water in equalizing temperature over the earth, while snow
1 A correspondent, Mr. G. Norman Douglass, writing from the British Embassy,
St. Petersburg, in 1894, sent me the following translation of a passage in
Schopenhauer's "Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung (Zur Teleologie)" which
curiously anticipates my views:" One accounts for the wonderfully varied and vividly glowing coloration of the
plumage of tropical birds, although only in a very general way, by the stronger
influence of light between the tropics-as its causa efficiens. As its causa finalis, I
should say that these brilliant plumages are the full-dress uniforms by means of
which the individuals of the numberless species, often belonging to one and the
same genus, recognize each other, so that every male finds its female."

XL] MY NEW IDEAS           387

and ice, by their immobility, produce cumulative effects; and

thus a lowering of temperature of a few degrees may lead to

a country being ice-clad which before was ice-free. This is

a vital point which is of the very essence of the problem of

glaciation; yet it has been altogether neglected in the various

mathematical or physical theories which have recently been

put forward. My own discussion of the problem in chapter

viii. of "Island Life " has never, so far as I know, been controverted, and I still think it constitutes the most complete

explanation of the phenomenon yet given.

During a discussion in Nature, so late as I896, Professor

G. H. Darwin and Mr. E. P. Culverwell adduced some new

calculations as to the amount of diminished sun-heat due to

eccentricity, as invalidating Croll's arguments; whereupon I

pointed out that their facts had not the importance they

supposed, because they took no account of the cumulative

effects of snow and ice above referred to (Nature, vol. liii.

p. 220). Sir Robert Ball also, quite independently, made the

same objection as myself.

8. In I880 I published my "Island Life," and the last

chapter but one is "On the Arctic Element in South

Temperate Floras," in which I gave a solution of the very

remarkable phenomena stated by Sir Joseph Hooker in his

"Introductory Essay on the Flora of Australia." My explanation is founded on known facts as to the dispersal and

distribution of plants, and does not require those enormous

changes in the climate of tropical lowlands during the glacial

period on which Darwin founded his explanation, and which,

I believe, no biologist well acquainted either with the fauna

or the flora of the equatorial zone has found it possible to

accept. I am informed by my friend Mr. Francis Darwin

that this chapter was especially noticed in Germany at the

time of its first appearance, but he can hear of no detailed

criticism of it, except one by H. von Jhering in Engler's

Botan-Yahrbficher (vol. xvii., I893), of which he has kindly

sent me a translation of the more important passages. This

is not the place to reply to the criticism, which would require

388
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
a chapter. I can only say here that the writer has not a sufficient grasp of the elementary laws of distribution to enable
him to grapple with the subject. One example of this will
suffice. He says, "Plants are not, as a fact, carried far by
wind, Corsican, Sardinian, and Sicilian plants not occurring in
Italy." No one who understands the first principles of evolution by natural selection could have made such a statement.
And as to his alleged "fact," I have given overwhelming
evidence against it in my book.
Mr. Darwin informs me, however, that he thinks the great
German botanist, Engler, is favourable to my views; but
what is very much more important is that Sir Joseph Hooker
himself accepts them, and I have his permission (February,
I905) to quote the following passages referring to the whole
book, from a letter written in I88o, and to say that he has
not changed his opinion: --
"I think you have made an immense advance to our
knowledge of the ways and means of distribution, and bridged
many great gaps. Your reasoning seems to me to be sound
throughout, though I am not prepared to receive it in all its
details."
And again: "I very much like your whole working of the
problem of the isolation and connection of New Zealand and
Australia inter se, and with the countries north of them; and
the whole treatment of that respecting north and south
migration over the Globe is admirable."
For those who have not my "Island Life," there is a
compact statement of the whole argument in my "Darwinism," pp. 361-373.
9. In I88I I put forth the first idea of mouth-gesture as a
factor in the origin of language, in a review of E. P. Tylor's
"Anthropology," and in I895 I extended it into an article in
the Fortnightly Review, and reprinted it with a few further
corrections in my " Studies," under the title, " The Expressiveness of Speech or Mouth-Gesture as a Factor in the Origin
of Language." In it I have developed a completely new
principle in the theory of the origin of language by showing

XLI
MY NEW IDEAS
389
that every motion of the jaws, lips, and tongue, together with
inward or outward breathing, and especially the mute or
liquid consonants ending words which serve to indicate abrupt
or continuous motion, have corresponding meanings in so
many cases as to show a fundamental connection. I thus
enormously extend the principle of onomatopceiae in the
origin of vocal language. As I have been unable to find any
reference to this important factor in the origin of language,
and as no competent writer has pointed out any fallacy in it,
I think I am justified in supposing it to be new and important.
Mr. Gladstone informed me that there were many thousands
of illustrations of my ideas in Homer.
io. In I89o I published in the Fortnightly Review an
article on "Human Selection," and in I892 (in the Boston
Arena) one on " Human Progress, Past and Future." These
deal with different aspects of the same great problem-the
gradual improvement of the race by natural process; and
they were also written partly for the purpose of opposing the
various artificial processes of selection advocated by several
English and American writers. I showed that the only
method of advance for us, as for the lower animals, is in
some form of natural selection, and that the only mode of
natural selection that can act alike on physical, mental, and
moral qualities will come into play under a social system
which gives equal opportunities of culture, training, leisure,
and happiness to every individual. This extension of the
principle of natural selection as it acts in the animal world
generally is, I believe, quite new, and is by far the most
important of the new ideas I have given to the world.
A short summary of these papers appears in my thirtythird chapter; but every one interested in the deepest
social problems should read the articles themselves (in my
"Studies"), which give a very condensed statement of the
whole argument.
I I. In an article on "The Glacial Erosion of Lake Basins"
(in the Fortnightly Review, December, I893), I brought

390
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
together the whole of the evidence bearing upon the question,
and adduced a completely new argument for this mode of
origin of the valley lakes of glaciated countries. This is
founded on their surface and bottom contours, both of which
are shown to be such as would necessarily arise from iceaction, while they would not arise from the other alleged
mode of origin-unequal elevation or subsidence.
12. In a new edition of "Stanford's Compendium, Australasia," vol. i., when describing the physical and mental
characteristics of the Australian aborigines, I stated my
belief that they were really a low and perhaps primitive type
of the Caucasian race. I further developed the subject in my
"Studies," and illustrated it by photographs of Australians
and Ainos, of the Veddahs of Ceylon, and of the Khmers of
Cambodia-all outlying members of the same great human
race. This, I think, is an important simplification in the
classification of the races of man.
Bees' cells.-But besides these more important scientific
principles or ideas, there are a few minor ones which are of
sufficient interest to be briefly mentioned. In the article on
the "Bees' Cell" (referred to in Chapter XXVIII.), I called
attention to a circumstance that had been, I think, unnoticed
by all previous writers. An immense deal of ingenuity and
of mathematical skill had been expended in showing that the
two layers of hexagonal cells, with basal dividing-plates
inclined at a particular angle, gave the greatest economy of
space and of material possible; and the instinct of the bees in
building such a comb to contain their store of honey was
held to show that it was a divinely bestowed special faculty.
But all these writers omitted to take into account one fact,
which shows their whole argument to be fallacious. This is,
that the combs are suspended vertically, and that when full of
honey the upper rows of cells have to support at least ten
times as much weight as the lowest rows. But there is no
corresponding difference in the thickness of the walls of the
cells; so that, as the upper rows are strong enough, the lower

XL]
MY NEWT IDEASS
391
must be quite unnecessarily strong, and there is thus a great
waste of wax. The whole conception of a supernatural
faculty for the purpose of economizing wax is thus shown to
be fallacious. Darwin's explanation entirely obviates this
difficulty, since it depends on the bees possessing intelligence
enough to reduce all the cellwalls to a nearly uniform thick.
ness, being that which is sufficient under all circumstances
to support the weight of the whole mass of comb and
honey.
The supposed "homing" instinct of dogs, etc. --In the year
I873 one of the many discussions on this subject took place
in Nature. I had suggested the immense importance of the
sense of smell in enabling dogs to find their way back along
a route they had been carried in a basket or covered cart;
but, of course, there are cases which this will not explain.
I gave a summing up of the whole subject, and added a
new and very remarkable case which happened to my
friend Dr. Purland, whose amusing letters I have given in
Chapter XXVIII. This case is as follows:" My friend lost a favourite little dog when he was living
in Long Acre. Three months afterwards he removed to
a house in another street about half a mile distant-a place
he had not contemplated going to, or even seen, before the
loss of the dog. Two months later (five months after the
loss of the dog) a scratching was heard at the front door, and
on opening it the dog rushed in, having found out its master
in the new house. My friend was so astonished that he went
next day to Long Acre to an acquaintance who lived nearly
opposite the old house (then empty), and told him his little
dog had come back. 'Oh,' said this person,' I saw the dog
myself yesterday. He scratched at your door, barked a good
deal, then went to the middle of the street, turned round
several times, and started off towards where you now live.' My
friend cannot tell how much time elapsed between the dog's
leaving the old and arriving at the new house. If every
movement of this dog could have been watched from one door
to the other, much might have been learnt. Could it have

392
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
obtained information from other dogs? Could the odour of
persons and furniture linger two months in the streets?"
It is evident that at least twelve hours were occupied in
finding the new place, leaving time for a good deal of trial
and error. One suggestion now occurs to me. There was a
rather circuitous omnibus route leading from Long Acre to
very near the new house. The dog may have often seen its
master travelling in a 'bus, and may even have gone with
some of the family. He may, therefore, have followed
the 'bus route, seeking all the way for indications, till at last
he crossed the recent track of his master or of some other
member of the family, and by scent followed it up to the
door. The following passage concludes my letter to Nature:" I venture to hope that some persons having means and
leisure will experiment on this subject in the same careful and
thorough way that Mr. Spalding experimented with his fowls.
The animal's previous history must be known and recorded;
a sufficient number of experiments, at various distances and
under different conditions, must be made; and a person of
intelligence and activity must keep the animal in sight, and
note down its every action till it arrives home. If this is
done, I feel sure that a satisfactory theory will soon be arrived
at, and much of, if not all, the mystery that now attaches
to this class of facts be removed." This suggestion I have
made several times during the last thirty years, but I cannot
learn that any one has yet carried it out. It is strange that
while thousands of dogs' lives are sacrificed annually to
establish some minute point in physiology, no one can be
found to carry out a few pleasurable and interesting experiments to ascertain in what manner and by the use of what
faculties lost animals habitually find their way home.
An analogous problem to this is that of the migration of
birds, which also has been almost always imputed to some
special instinct or peculiar faculty other than that of the
ordinary senses. On this question I wrote to Nature as
follows (October 8, I874): "It appears to me probable that
here, as in so many other cases,' survival of the fittest' will
be found to have had a powerful influence. Let us suppose

XL]
MY NEWV IDEAS
393
that with any species of migratory bird breeding can, as a
rule, be only safely accomplished in a certain area; and, further,
that during a large part of the rest of the year sufficient food
cannot be obtained in that area. It will follow that those
birds which do not leave the breeding area at the proper
season will suffer, and ultimately become extinct; which will
also be the fate of those which do not leave the subsistence
area at the proper time. Now, if we suppose that the two
areas were (for some remote ancestor of the existing species)
coincident, but through geological and climated changes
gradually diverged from each other, we can easily understand
how the habit of incipient and partial migration at the proper
season would become hereditary (through the action of natural
selection), and so fixed as to appear to be what we term an
instinct. It will probably be found that every gradation still
exists in various parts of the world, from a complete coincidence to a complete separation of the breeding and subsistence
areas; and when the life-histories of a sufficient number of
species are thoroughly worked out, we shall find every link
between species which never leave a restricted area in which
they breed and live the whole year round, to those other
cases in which the two areas are very widely separated. The
actual causes that determine the exact time, year by year, at
which certain species migrate, will, of course, be difficult to
ascertain. I would suggest, however, that they will be found
to depend upon the climatal changes which most affect each
species. The change of colour, or the fall of certain leaves;
the change to the pupa state of certain larvae; prevalent
winds or rains, or even the decreased temperature of earth or
water, may all have their influence. Ample materials must
now exist, in the case of European birds, for an instructive
work on this subject. The two areas should be carefully
determined for a number of species; the times of their
movements should be compared with those of the natural
phenomena likely to influence them; the past changes of
surface, of climate, and of vegetation should be taken account
of; and there seems no reason to doubt that such a mode of
research would throw much light on the problem."

394
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
In an article on "The Problem of Instinct" in my
"Studies" (vol. i. chap. xxii.), I have supplemented the above
theory as to why birds migrate, by another as to how they
migrate, and trace it wholly to experience, the young birds
following the old ones; but an enormous proportion of the
young fail to make the outward or the homeward journey
safely.
I have given a summary of these three papers here,
because the views I set forth explain some of the most
remarkable cases of what have been termed instincts among
the higher animals, as being really due to instruction and
imitation, together with the exercise of specially acute faculties
of smell or sight, of memory and a moderate amount of intelligence. It is because I go farther in this direction than
any other writer I am acquainted with that I put this subject
among my " new ideas."
In I894 I wrote an article for the Nineteenth Century on
the question of the proper observance of Sunday, which I
have reprinted in my "Studies " under the title, " A Counsel
of Perfection for Sabbatarians." In this short article I define
clearly, I think for the first time, what the "work " so strictly
and impressively forbidden really is, and then show how
utterly inconsistent are the great majority of sabbatarians,
who themselves break the commandment both in letter and
spirit, while they loudly condemn others for acts which are
not forbidden by it. I also show how the commandment can
be and should be strictly kept by all who believe it to be a
Divine command, and point out the good results which would
follow such a mode of obeying it. That the idea was new
and its reasoning unanswerable may be perhaps inferred from
the fact that no reply, so far as I know, was made to it; while
a well-known writer was so impressed by it that he made
his own bed the following Sunday in accordance with its
suggestions.
One other new idea of quite a different nature I will refer
to here, because I think that publicity may yet lead to its

XL]
MY~ NEWV IDEAS
395
adoption and to the consequent annual saving of life and
property. I was led to it by having seen the effects of the
explosion of a powder barge on the Regent's Canal when I
was living in the neighbourhood (some time in the sixties);
and again while living at Grays and often passing the great
magazine at Purfleet, where there had been an explosion
some years before. On reading of the elaborate and costly
precautions at all such magazines, and of explosions occurring
somewhere almost every year notwithstanding all precautions,
it occurred to me that there was a simple way of rendering
such explosions impossible, and at the same time reducing
largely the cost of storing all explosives.
The plan was to store all gunpowder, cartridges, and
other explosives in metal drums, either hexagonal or circular
in form and of uniform size and height, fitted at top with an
air-tight cap of a size suited to the kind of explosive it contained. These drums would be arranged in rows in shallow,
open tanks, filled with water so as to cover the lids, the water
being kept at a uniform level by an inflow and overflow. Such
tanks would need no protection whatever, except against
thieves, and no precautions whatever would be required. For
the conveyance of powder, etc., trucks and barges with watertanks could be used, and in factories all explosive materials
should be kept under water, so that if an explosion occurred
during the actual processes of manufacture it would be strictly
limited, and could not extend either to the stores of material
or of the finished product, since if the water were all blown
away by the concussion the contents would remain uninjured.
I drew up a careful statement of the advantages of this
plan, with a drawing of the proposed drum, and sent it through
a friend to Sir Thomas Brassey, then a Lord of the Admiralty,
requesting him to lay it before the proper authorities. In
reply I received a memorandum from the Director of Naval
Ordnance, referring me to the " Treatise of Ammunition, I88I "
(a copy of which was sent), as to " the present service powdercases." He added that the plan would be difficult, and perhaps impossible on board ship, on account of the extra space
required. The last paragraph was

396
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
"For permanent depots of powder like Upnor the idea
seems worthy of attention, and Mr. Wallace might address
the War Office on the subject after informing himself as to
the present service powder-cases.
<" F. A. HERBERT.
"20. 6. 82."
As the Treatise sent merely showed that copper drums
were in use something similar to those I suggested, but the
interminable pages of instructions and precautions made no
reference whatever to water-storage, I did not trouble myself
to send my plan to the War Office. I, however, sent it to a
few newspapers, where it appeared, and I received in consequence a letter from the editor of the Ironmonger approving of the plan for large stores of powder, but fearing it
could not be applied to retail dealers, where explosions, often
fatal, were continually occurring, almost always through
" gross negligence."
It thus appears that good authorities could see no practical objections to the plan in most cases, neither did they
deny the absolute security that would be obtained by it; yet
the crop of explosions, with loss of life, goes on every few
years, and till some one in authority takes it up, will, I presume, continue.
PREDICTIONS FULFILLED.
Having devoted three chapters to an account of my
various experiences in connection with modern spiritualism,
which have, however, been far less extraordinary than those
of many of my friends, I may not improperly conclude this
record of my life and experience with a statement of a few of
the predictions which I have received at different times, and
which have been to some extent fulfilled.
In 1870 and the following years several communications
in automatic writing were received through a member of my
family purporting to be from my brother William, with whom
I had lived so many years. In some of these he referred to

XL]
PREDICTIONS FULFILLED
397
my disappointments in obtaining employment and to my
money losses, always urging me not to trouble myself about
my affairs, which would certainly improve; but I was not to
be in a hurry. These messages never contained any proofs
of identity, and I did not therefore feel much interest in them,
and their ultimate fulfilment, though in quite unexpected
ways, cannot be considered to be of any great importance.
Some years later, when we were living at Dorking, my
little boy, then five years old, became very delicate, and
seemed pining away without any perceptible ailment. At
that time I was being treated myself for a chronic complaint
by an American medium, in whom I had much confidence;
and one day, when in his usual trance, he told me, without
any inquiry on my part, that the boy was in danger, and that
if we wished to save him we must leave Dorking, go to a
more bracing place, and let him be out-of-doors as much as
possible and "have the smell of the earth." I then noticed
that we were all rather languid without knowing why, and
therefore removed in the spring to Croydon, where we all felt
stronger, and the boy at once began to get better, and has had
fair health ever since.
Some time afterwards I accompanied a lady friend of
mine to have a stance with the same medium, she being quite
unknown to him. Among many other interesting things, he
told us that something would happen before very long which
would cause us to see less of each other, but would not affect
our friendship. We neither of us could guess what that could
be, but a year or two later the lady married a very old friend,
a widower, whose wife at the time of the prediction was, I
think, alive, while he was living in a distant colony without
any expressed intention of coming home. After the marriage
they went to live in Devonshire, and for some years we only
met at very long intervals. These two cases seem to me to
be genuine clairvoyance or prediction.
But much more important than the preceding are certain
predictions which were made to me in April, I896, and which
have been fulfilled during the succeeding eight years. At

396
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
that time I was living at Parkstone in rather poor health and
subject to chronic asthma, with palpitations and frequent
bronchitis, from which I never expected to recover. I had
given up lecturing, and had no expectation of ever writing
another book, neither had I the least idea of leaving the
house I was living in, which I had purchased and enlarged a
few years before. It was under these circumstances that a
medium I had visited once in London, Madame G-, was
staying with friends at Wimborne, and came to see me, and
offered to give me a seance. One of her controls, an old
Scotch physician, advised me about my health, told me to eat
fish, and assured me that I was not coming to their side for
some years yet, as I had a good deal of work to do here.
The other control, named "Sunshine," an Indian girl, who
seemed to be able to get information from many sources,
was very positive in her statements. She said, " You won't
live here always. You will come out of this hole. You will
come more into the world, and do something public for
spiritualism." I replied, " You are quite wrong. I shall
never leave this house now, and I shall not appear in public
again." But she insisted that she was right, and said, "You
will see; and when it comes to pass, remember what I told
you." She then said, "Fanny [my sister] sends her love.
She loved you more than any one in the world." This I
knew to be true, though during her life I did not so fully
realize it. Then Sunshine gave me her parting words,
speaking slowly and distinctly: " The third chapter of your
life, and your book, is to come. It can be expressed as
Satisfaction, Retrospection, and Work." These three words
were spoken very impressively, and I wrote them at once in
a small note-book with capital letters, though I had no
notion whatever of what they could refer to, and no belief
that they would be in any way fulfilled.
Yet two months later the first step in the fulfilment was
taken through Dr. Lunn's invitation to give a lecture at
Davos, and my acceptance of it, due mainly to the temptation of a week in Switzerland free of cost and with a pleasant
party. As already described (Chapter XXXII.), this lecture

XL]
PREDICTIONS FULFILIED
399
was the starting-point of all my subsequent work. The very
next year brought me renewed health and strength to do the
work, as already described. Another year passed, and I
received a pressing invitation to take the chair and give a
short address to the International Congress of Spiritualists,
which I felt myself unable to refuse, and thus, as I had been
told I should, I "did something public for spiritualism."
Yet another year, and a great desire for life more in the
country than at Parkstone (where we were being surrounded
by new building operations) led me to join some friends in
trying to find a locality for a kind of home-colony of congenial persons; and though the plan was never carried out,
it led ultimately to my finding the site on which to build my
present house, and thus "get out of that hole," as I had been
told by Sunshine that I should do. And now, looking back
upon the eight years of renewed health I have enjoyed, and
with constant interesting work,how can this be better described
than as "the third chapter of my life; " while "' Man's Place
in the Universe "-a totally new subject for me-may well be
termed the "third chapter of my book," that is, of my
literary work. Again, this wholesome activity of body and
mind, the obtaining a beautiful site where I am surrounded
by grass and woodland, and have a splendid view over moor
and water to distant hills and the open sea, with abundance
of pure air and sunshine, the building of a comfortable house
in one of the choicest spots in the whole district-surely all
this was well foretold in the one word " Satisfaction." What has
chiefly occupied me in this house-an Autobiography extending over three-quarters of a century-is admirably described
by the word "Retrospection." And the whole of this process
has involved, or been the result of, continuous and pleasureable "Work."
I will only add here that during the whole of this "third
chapter of my life" I had entirely forgotten the particular
words of the prediction which I had noted down at the time,
and was greatly surprised, on referring to them again for the
purpose of this chapter, to find how curiously they fitted the
subsequent events. Of course it may be said that every one

400  MY LIFE        [CHAP. XL]

who reaches my age enjoys "retrospection," but that kind of

general looking back to the past is very different from the

detailed Retrospection I have had to make in searching out

the many long-forgotten incidents and details of my very

varied life as here recorded; and the Work this has involved,

and the Satisfaction I have had in writing, fully justify the

solemn emphasis with which the prediction was made.

I now bid my readers, who have travelled with me so far

a hearty Farewell.

ADDENDUM

CHAPTER XXXIIIA

EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS

WHILE endeavouring to give an account of all matters which

occupied or interested me during the latter half of my life, I

somewhat hastily concluded my MSS. and sent it to press

without any reference to two matters which were of some

importance to myself, and one of them of some general

interest. These are, the various holiday excursions I took

with my father-in-law, Mr. William Mitten, whose deep enthusiasm for nature and extensive knowledge of plants in

general, and mosses in particular, rendered his companionship

very congenial to me; and my work as an Assistant Examiner in Physical Geography and Physiography, which

occupied me for three weeks or more every summer, almost

continually for twenty-seven years. In order to make this

record of my life more complete, I have added a supplementary chapter devoted to these two subjects.

My first excursion with Mr. Mitten was in August, I867,

to North Wales, his first visit to that beautiful district. We

stayed a few days at Corwen, and our first walk on Sunday

morning was along the road to the west up the valley of the

Alwen. In about five miles we reached Pont-y-glyn, where a

farm-road crossed a very deep ravine. This we descended

and found the bottom full of curious hollows, with vertical

rocks damp or dripping, overshadowed by trees and shrubs.

Here the yellow Welsh poppy grew luxuriantly, as well as

the globe-flowers and the subalpine Rubus saxatilis. But

what delighted Mr. Mitten on this his first walk in Wales

was the abundance of mosses and hepaticae, and for a full

VOL. II.  40I    2D

402
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
hour he explored every nook and cranny, and every few
minutes cried out to me, "I've got another species I never
gathered before," till I thought he would never tear himself
away; and during several other visits to Wales in the
Snowdon and Cader Idris districts, and in the Vale of Neath,
I do not think he ever came upon a richer spot for his
favourite group of plants.
The next day we took a much longer ramble along
country lanes, which gradually led us on to the ridge of the
Berwyn mountains, from 2500 to 2700 feet above sea-level.
At the highest summit, where a circle of precipices descends
to a little tarn-Llyn-llyne-caws-my friend crept out along
the face of the rocks to get some rare mosses, till he made
me quite afraid for his safety. But he was very active and
sure-footed, and always managed to get what he wanted.
On the high peaty moors we found the creeping cloud-berry,
and as we had strolled slowly, searching everywhere for
plants and enjoying the scenery and the mountain air, it was
late in the afternoon before we came to a deep valley where
there were some houses, and as we had walked about eight or
nine miles over high mountains since we last saw a house, we
determined to go down and try to find a night's lodging. We
were attracted by glimpses of a waterfall up this valley, and
therefore made for the highest house we could see, a rather
neat small farmhouse. By the time we had reached it the
sun had set, and when we asked if we could have supper
and lodging there, we were told it was impossible, as some
titled person-I forget the name-was coming next day with
some friends to shoot there, and everything was got ready for
him. However, we told them we had walked over the
mountains from Corwen and were very tired, and if we went
down to the village we should have so much to walk back in
the morning, that at last they agreed. I quite forget what
kind of accommodation we had, but I rather think we slept
on the floor. We had, however, a good supper, and breakfast next morning, when, after getting a view of the waterfall, which Mr. Mitten sketched, we walked about three
miles westward over a mountain ridge to a good but very

-0&
4. -

LLANRH-AIDWR WATERFALL.
[To face. 403, VOL. II.

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS  403

wild road, which led us back through the village of Llandrillo

to Corwen, a distance of about seventeen miles, forming

altogether one of the wildest mountain walks I have ever

taken in our own country.

The waterfall we thus accidentally came upon is called

Pistill Rhaiadwr, and is little known to tourists, as it is a long

way from any beaten track, but it is undoubtedly the finest

in Wales, and has a peculiar feature which is, I think, unique

in the British Isles. Between the upper and the lower part

of the fall the water passes under a natural arch of rock,

along which it is possible to crawl, though when there is

much water the arch is drenched with spray. The photograph

here copied shows this remarkable feature, as well as the

double fall, the upper one being about 150 feet high, the

total height being 240 feet. George Borrow, in his "Wild

Wales," considers this curious bridge to be a blemish, and

remarks, "This unsightly object has stood where it now

stands since the day of creation, and will probably remain

there to the day of judgment. It would be a desecration of

nature to remove it by art, but no one could regret if Nature

herself, in one of her floods, were to sweep it away." The

ancient geology and theology of this passage are very

characteristic.

Two years later we had another excursion together,

accompanied by my friend Geach, going first to Beddgelert,

and then on to Pen-y-gwryd, where we found the little inn

crowded, and had difficulty in finding the roughest accommodation. Next morning we started at five, and had a most

delightful walk up Snowdon by this very picturesque route.

Reaching the summit with excellent appetites, we enjoyed our

breakfast of coffee and bacon in the little hut on the top, and

then, as it was a glorious day with floating clouds whose

shadows below us were a delight, we spent an hour or more

in the enjoyment of the splendid views, with the numerous

lakes in almost all the surrounding cwms and valleys which

render this mountain especially interesting to the glacial

geologist. Numbers of swifts were flying about over and

around the peak, and when Mr. Mitten climbed out on some

404
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
crags in search of rare mosses, they dashed about so close to
his head as to cause him to retreat. After returning to Beddgelert we went up a small valley to find a very rare watermoss, which Mr. William Borrer, the well-known botanist,
had told Mr. Mitten was to be found there; and after a long
search in every rock-hole that seemed a likely place, he, at
last, found the treasure, as he almost always did when he
went in search of any rarity. While stopping at a cottage
during a shower, and noticing some large birds of prey
screaming on a mountain near, he asked the woman of the
house what birds they were. To which she replied, " Harpies,"
which made us wonder what remote part of the world we had
got to. We afterwards went to Dolgelly and Cader Idris,
where, in a small lake, we found the uncommon Lobelia
Dortmanna.
In 1875 we went again to Snowdon, and afterwards to the
curious ravine called Twll-di, or the "Devil's Kitchen," near
which I found an umbrella, and Mrs. Mitten, who accompanied
us, found somebody's lunch, consisting of a baked trout and
grapes; while Mr. Mitten revelled as usual in the rare mosses,
and later at the Swallow Falls, on the way to Bettws-y-Coed,
he found a moss quite new to him.
Our next excursion was to South Wales, when my wife
and Mrs. Mitten accompanied us, as I wished to show them
the beautiful scenery of my favourite Vale of Neath. We
stayed a few days at a cottage at Pont-nedd Fychan and
visited the beautiful waterfalls, the rocking-stone, the subterranean river, and the fine Dinas rock. While here one day
we passed a labourer at work on the roadside, and Mrs. Mitten,
thinking to gratify the patriotism of a Welshman, remarked
on the beautytof the scenery, and asked him if he did not
think it a privilege to live in such a fine country? Rather to
our amusement, he told us that he did not think much of the
country, it was all hills and stones, and there was no good
land, and he much preferred his own country, which was
Lincolnshire I
Another year I and Mr. Mitten went to Glen Clova in the
Highlands in search of the many rare plants for which it is

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS  405

celebrated. But we had little success because we had no guide

to the exact localities of the rarities. But we much enjoyed

the excursion and the wild scenery, though we had some difficulty in getting the keepers to allow us to enter the glen. Being

at the inn on Sunday a number of farmers and their wives

came in after church to meet their friends and drink whisky,

and on listening to their very voluble talk I could not understand a word that they were saying. I concluded, therefore,

that they were speaking Gaelic, and was much pleased to

have heard it. But the landlord's daughter told me afterwards

that no one spoke Gaelic there, and that all the people I had

heard were speaking English! I could not have believed

that pronunciation and accent could have produced such

complete unintelligibility. On passing through Edinburgh

we called on the late Professor Balfour at the Botanical

Gardens, and he much regretted that he had not accompanied

us, as he could have shown us all the rarities of that botanical

treasure-house.

In the spring of 1877 I accompanied Mr. Mitten to Spa

in Belgium, where he was taking his youngest daughter to a

school to acquire French conversation. We stayed a few

days there, botanizing on the moors and hills around, and

were interested in noticing some peculiarities of the vegetation

as compared with our own. Nowhere did we see a single

primrose, but its place was taken by the true oxlip (Primula

elatior), so local with us. Our rare little fern, Asplenium

septentrionale, was common by the roadsides. Our Swiss tour

has been noticed in Chapter XXXIII. Even during Mr.

Mitten's occasional visits to us in Dorsetshire, he had found

several plants new to the district or to the county. The

most notable of these were the crowberry (Empetrum nigrum),

never before noticed in Dorsetshire, a quite large bush of

which was found on Studland Heath, a well-searched botanical

locality. Even more interesting was his discovery of the

rare aquatic grass, Leersia oryzoides, which he thought

should grow in the ditches near Wareham, and knowing its

flowering season, he went there and found it, though the

very ditch had often been searched by other botanists!

406
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
MY EXPERIENCES AS AN EXAMINER.
It was, I think, in I870, that I heard from Bates of the
examinations in Physical Geography under the Science and
Art Department, for which he was one of the Assistant
Examiners, and he advised me to apply to Professor Ansted,
the examiner-in-chief, if I wished to obtain the post of an
assistant. I did so; and began the work in I87I, and continued yearly till I877. In I87I I also had the examinership in Physical Geography and Geology for the Indian Civil
Engineering College, and in I870 and I871 for the Royal
Geographical Society.
The work under Professor Ansted was hard while it
lasted, but was interesting, and often quite amusing, and it
was very well paid. The assistant examiners had each over
a thousand papers to examine. The work occupied about
three weeks more or less, and the remuneration amounted to
from ~50 to ~6o, or occasionally even more. In i878 Professor Judd and Sir Norman Lockyer were appointed joint
examiners, the syllabus being altered to include geology and
physical astronomy, while the subject of examination was
now changed from Physical Geography to Physiography,
and I continued to be an assistant examiner till I897, with
the exception of one year during my American tour.
During the earlier period a considerable number of wellknown scientific men, mostly geologists or biologists, were
among the assistant examiners, such as H. W. Bates, William
Carruthers, the botanist, J. F. Collingwood, Major CooperKing, Professor J. Morris, Professor T. Rupert Jones, Dr.
Henry Woodward of the Natural History Museum, Professor
H. G. Seeley, and a few others less well known to me. There
were three meetings in London to compare results and secure
an equal rate of marking, and these afforded an opportunity
for a little conversation between persons who rarely met
elsewhere, and we also for some years had an annual dinner,
which was latterly discontinued when a considerable proportion of the examiners lived in the country.

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS 407
Although the drudgery and strain of reading through a
thousand papers, with replies to the same set of questions,
exhibiting every possible degree of ignorance of the subject
and often extremely diffuse, was very great, yet a little relief
was given by the highly amusing character of some of the
answers, of the more curious of which I, as well as several
others of the examiners, made notes. During intervals of
our more serious work, we often communicated some of these
to our fellow-sufferers, and thus contributed a little hilarity
to our otherwise strictly business meetings.
On looking over my notes of these examinations extending over more than a quarter of a century, I think it will be
both amusing and instructive to give a few examples of these
replies, of which I have a rather large collection, as they have
an important bearing on the whole question of the utility of
such examinations, on which I may, perhaps, afterwards say
a few words. The first I will quote are from a rather long
series that occurred in 1873. It must be remembered that in
Professor Ansted's time sixteen questions were asked, ranging
over most of the subjects included in Physical Geography,
but only eight were to be answered, so that the candidates
need only attempt to answer those about which they knew
something. Further, they were all supposed to have had
some special teaching in the subject, and were sent up by
their masters in the hope of getting the allowance granted by
the Government for each one who passed.
The first question was, "Show why the longest day in
Edinburgh is longer than the longest day in London." Out
of a large number of answers, showing more or less complete
ignorance of the cause of this interesting phenomenon which
must be known to every one who has spent a winter at any
two places in the north and the south of our islands, I have
preserved five.
(I) Because it possesses a maritime climate.
(2) Because the manufactures in London produce a smoky atmosphere.
(3) Because it is not in such a warm place as London.
(4) Because London is on a meridian and Edinburgh is not.
(5) Because the first meridian shades the sun from London, while it
is shining in Edinburgh.

408
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Now, these answers, and scores of others equally wide of
the mark but not so short or so amusing, show that no
attempt had ever been made to teach these boys to understand the commonest facts connected with the motions of the
earth-such as the seasons, varying lengths of day and night,
change of position of the sun at rising and setting, and its
altitude at noon, etc.-in the only way in which they can be
taught to the majority of people, that is, by simple experiments with a globe and a lamp in a darkened room. In this
way the reason of all the changes is seen to follow inevitably
from the form, position, and motions of the earth, while no
amount of verbal explanation, even with the help of diagrams,
can make it intelligible to any but those who have the special
geometrical faculty. By such experiments any intelligent
children from eight or ten upwards may be easily made to
understand these facts, as well as the apparent motions of all
the heavenly bodies. Yet probably to this day not one school
in a hundred teaches such things, and not one teacher in a
hundred knows how to teach them.
Another question was, " Mention the natural habitat of the
horse, the elephant, the hippopotamus, and the rhinoceros,"
and the following answers were given:(i) The horse is used for drawing anything, such as carts, plows,
or anything he is taken to do; the hippopotamus is a very disagreeable
beast and runs about very wild.
(2) The habit of the horse is plowing, the elephant goes to shows.
(3) The principle habitat of,the elephant is the fauna, the rhinoceros,
the buffalo, and the hippopotamus is the white bear.
The above replies show gross ignorance of the facts of
animal distribution or of the terms used in regard to it; and
the following show equal ignorance of common geographical
or meteorological phenomena. The answers show sufficiently
what were the questions:Q. iI. The principal Atlantic icebergs come from the Alleghanies on
the east of America; when they reach the valley below they melt and
form small straits, which in time spread out into rivers. They enrich the
climate through which they pass.

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS 409
Q. ii. Iceberg is a mass of ice formed in the polar regions and
generally connected with volcanoes.
Q. iI. Icebergs are formed by geysers shooting up in the air out of
the sea and frozen there.
In reply to a question as to deep dredging in the Atlantic
the following answers were given:Q. i5. The depth of the water of the Atlantic is measured by large
things called ravines. The depth is 9o,ooo,ooo miles. Gold is found at
the bottom.
Q. I5. The matter found at the bottom of the Atlantic is copper,
pearls, and diamonds.
Q. I5. The material found by deep dredging in the Atlantic is-the
Atlantic canal or cable.
The question being, "What is meant by the distribution
of plants and animals in vertical and horizontal space, and
what do you understand by representative forms? "-I have
notes of the four following answers:(i) Horizontal distribution is when they grow near the horizon;
vertical distribution is when they grow in vertical space, as wheat, or
anything on the same level.
(2) Plants grow in gardens, animals live on the earth.
(3) By distribution of plants and animals in vertical and horizontal
space, we mean, the plants and animals in the distance between pointed
and curved lines.
(4) Representative forms of animals and plants is, how they are
represented in books.
In I878 I had some good examples of the kind of answer
in which the candidate evidently has a very high opinion of
his own attainments and his mode of explaining the whole
matter. The question was, "In what respects do a volcano
and a geyser resemble each other, and in what respects do
they differ?" The answer is rather a long one:A volcano is a raised piece of land in about a thousand years, then in
another thousand years it has become larger and larger till it becomes
as high as would be called a volcano. But a geyser is a raised piece of
land done all in a night.
Difference. The volcano takes a long long time to be at the point of
saturation, but the geyser is done all in one night.

4IO
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
Agreement. They are both raised-up pieces of land. Sometimes a
volcano goes on fire and makes a creator, and then it bursts. When
it bursts you will always observe that down at the bottom of the volcano
and about ten miles round and round about it there lies cinders as large
as bricks, and as you proceed to the top of the volcano it always becomes
smaller, till at the mouth of it it is all dross, like very small coal.
This last sentence is so precise and clear in its statements that one might suppose it to be the result of personal
observation i
Another of the same class occurred in I879, when in
answer to the question, " What evidence have we that lions
and tigers once lived in this country? " the reply wasWe have only this evidence that lions and tigers once lived in this
country, that when a man, or even any man or men, have been digging
for minerals, wells, or anything else, they have found the fossils, and it
has at last after a good long consideration and perseverance it has turned
out to be the skeleton of a lion or tiger.
The same paper explains thunder as follows:The cause of the noise made during thunderstorms is the meeting
of the electric and other gases. It is said that a gentleman caught a
glimpse of one of these collisions by means of a kite. It was thus found
out what was the cause of thunderstorms, and also what made the flash
of lightning.
In I880 we had the following answers to a question about
the causes of the extinction of animals, and as to any which
have become extinct since the appearance of man on the
earth:(I) Giants, and the great fish which swallowed Jonah.
(2) Extinct volcanoes not having erupted for a length of time is one
cause which has brought about the extinction of animals.
(3) Animals which lived before the flood no longer exist except their
fossilized remains. Iothoraics, Pleathorus, Mammoth, Dothorium, Adam
and Eve never saw, having become extinct.
(4) Animals which have become extinct since man has been on the
earth are Ammonites, Belemnites, Mammals and Productus horridus.
(5) The unicorn is extinct.
(6) Extinct means that they have gone away, but may become active
again. Some of the causes that they have become extinct are that they
have been caged up, etc. The animals that have become extinct since
the appearance of man are the jaguars.

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS 411
Many other answers showed a similar absence of knowledge upon this most interesting branch of natural history,
and one which may be made easily intelligible even to
children.
The equally simple and interesting question as to what
geographical range of animals or plants means, is thus
answered:(i) What is meant by geographical range is, that they are arranged
according to their shape and size.
(2) The geographical range of a species of animal or plant is that
part of a country in which no species of animal or plant will live, only
the species which first originated there.
In I882 we had a question analogous to that so badly
answered in 1873: "What is the cause of the long days and
nights of the Polar regions?" and the answers showed little
improvement in the teaching. Here are a few of them:(I) The reason why they have long days and nights is because at
the poles they have only six hours sun, and the sun does not rise at 6
o'clock a.m. at the poles as it does here, but does not rise till nine and
ten o'clock a.m.
(2) Because the sun only visits the polar regions a particular part of
the year. When the sun is gone the day only lasts a few hours.
(3) The poles being so far from the equator. That is, it takes the
light a certain time to travel that distance.
(4) At the N. Pole the Aurora Borealis; at the South Pole the South
Australis sheds its light upon the Polar regions, the long nights are
owing to the Aurora disappearing. Long days may be also owing to the
Colures; long nights to the moon not affecting the Polar regions.
(5) In summer Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, being the bulk of
the land of the world, require a great deal of heat from the sun. Again,
when it is winter in Europe, etc., it is summer in Australia. Now
Australia being a very small part of the earth it will not require as much
heat as the other continents did. Consequently more heat can be given
by the sun to the Polar regions than in our summer.
(6) The cause of the long days is due to the slowness with which the
moon sets, or, more correctly, the long nights, and when the moon does
set it remains a long time forming the long days.
(7) The reason they have long days and nights is that the people
always catch the sun or the moon; another reason is that they are
nearest the sun.
(8) The cause of the long days and nights of the Polar regions is that
the days and nights are just the ofiosite to what it is stated in the

412

MY LIFE

(CHAP.

question, namely short days and long nights, it being one continuous

winter from one years end to the other, summer being only for a few

weeks at a time, and then the days axe comparatively short compared

with ours.

(9) The long days and nights are caused by the quantity of snow that

falls at the poles.

(Io) The cause of the long days in the Polar regions is this: when

the sun is observed there (which it seldom is) the rays are reflected as it

were, and it forms day. The cause of the long nights in the Polar regions

is this: the sun only makes his appearance for a very short time, during

this time it is day, but after the sun disappears it is night, which by that

means is very long. It is to be understood that it is a certain part of the

year during which the days are long, and the other part during which the

nights are long.

It seems to me a very sad thing that under a vast Government organization at a very great cost, it should be possible

for such results as these to be produced. Many of these

candidates have evidently good capacity, but are sent up

to be examined on subjects of which they are disgracefully

ignorant, either from want of any teaching whatever, or

through their teachers being themselves disgracefully ignorant

-and there are clear indications that the latter is very often

the case.

Six years later (i888), we find equal ignorance on

another subject of great interest, and as to which knowledge

was easy to obtain even without special training.   The

question was, " How is the depth of the ocean determined? "

(I) The depth of the ocean is determined by the water carrying the

sediment to the mouth of the ocean and depositing it again.

(2) The depth of the ocean is determined by discharging a wire or

rope from a cannon, the wire being long with a point fixed, which when

it touches something hard an electric current passes immediately to the

ship; they thus go on till they find the lowest sounding.

(3) The depth of the ocean is determined by means of the barometer,

an instrument invented for measuring the heights of sea-levels, etc. The

barometer is placed by the side of some mountain, and in this manner

they calculate taking the readings from the barometer.

(4) The ocean contains poles, insects live at the bottom of the ocean

and bore holes in the poles, when the poles are reached they reach the

bottom of the ocean.

(5) The depth of the ocean is determined because it i always movin

and wearing away the bottom.

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS 413
(6) The depth of the ocean is determined by fixing a piece of rope to
a heavy piece of metal which is lowered into the water, and as soon
as it touches the bottom the weight is no longer felt and the rope is cut
off at the surface of the water; the rope is then measured. It is brought
up by a diver.
(7) The depth of the ocean is determined by sounding or pianoforte
wire which is let down until it reaches the bottom of the ocean; great
care must be taken to catch the sound.
Equally gross ignorance is shown as to the mariner's compass, the question being whether it always points due north;
if not, why not?
(i) The mariner's compass do not always point due north because if
it did on board a ship, the captain of the ship would want to go south and
it would guide him the wrong way, instead of south it would guide him
north, so it is made to turn N.S.E.W. The mariner's compass is made
to turn round in any way in which the captain wishes to turn it, so as to
guide him which way he wants to go. If he wants to go to the south he
puts the point to the south, etc. They are used by men who want to go to
different parts of the world. Say if a man is lost in travelling to Germany
he looks at his compass, and if it is north he puts the point north, or
if it is south, etc.
(2) The mariner's compass does not point due north because the wind
affects it. If the wind is blowing hard the dial points slightly to the
north, and when it is a heavy storm the dial points nowhere, but just
swings backwards and forwards.
Another subject of the greatest interest and one that can
be very easily taught to even young children by a number of
simple and easy experiments, is that of the weight and
density of the atmosphere, and the construction of the
barometer. Some knowledge of these subjects is essential to
a clear understanding of a great number of natural phenomena. Yet this is how, so late as I889, some of these
students replied to easy questions about it:(i) The weight of the air can be determined by the law of gravitation.
For example, take an apple from a tree and let it go. What happens?
It falls to the ground. This shows that the air is heavier and attracts
the apple at the ground. Therefore we can say the apple does not fall,
but it is the ground that attracts it. By that process we could discover
or determine the weight of the air. We are able to move about because
the earth attracts us, and so we are able to move about in this dense
mass of air under us.

I41
MY LIFE
[C HAP.
(2) To a person who has not studied the question air has no weight.
If air has weight, why do we not get tired of bearing that weight? To
prove to that person that air has weight, ask-How do you take headaches? We take headaches because the air gets light and some of the
usual weight is taken off the head, and we get giddy,
These two young men write with an air of authority, as if
they were teachers rather than learners, yet it is hard to say
which of the two is the more profoundly ignorant. The
other four, while equally ignorant, are more modest in their
style.
(3) We are able to move under the pressure of the atmosphere by impurities and other bodies displacing the air. If there were no impurities
in the air we could not move about. For example, water-vapour gets into
the air, and displaces it making the air lighter.
(4) We are able to bear a certain amount of the weight of the
atmosphere and a very little more would kill us.
(5) We are able to move about on the earth's surface because,
although the atmosphere is pressing us down we have the sun attracting us.
(6) The reason that we are able to move about under the weight of
the atmosphere is that the atmosphere is two hundred miles away from
the surface of the earth.
Passing on to i89i, such a common instrument as the
barometer, which can be so easily explained by simple experiments, is thus hopelessly blundered:(i) Air occupies the space above the mercury. If a hole were bored
through the glass above the mercury the air would escape and probably
the tube would burst.
(2) The air would escape and the mercury would remain dormant.
(3) The principle on which the action of the mercurial barometer
depends is, that it must be enclosed in a strong case and must not be
touched in any way.
(4) A water barometer is longer than a mercurial barometer because
it has to go down to the bottom of the sea to see how deep it is. A
mercurial barometer has to see how high a thing is, and no hill is higher
than the depth of the ocean except a few high mountains which nobody
can get to the top of. Oxygen occupies the space above the mercury,
and if a hole were bored the oxygen would flow out and the mercury rise
to the top and flow out also.
In 1893, in order to correct some popular errors, the

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS 415
following questions were asked: "Point out the errors in
the following statements:"(a) Earthquakes have raised to heaven the ocean bed."
"(b) Volcanoes are burning mountains that vomit fire and
smoke." To which the following replies were given:(i) Earthquakes swallow the ocean bed.
(2) In ancient times volcanoes were called burning mountains, but we
do not call them by that name now, because we have a new name for
them derived from the Latin words volca to burn and noe mountain, and
the two put together " volcanoe."
In the same year, in reply to the very elementary question,
"How is angular space measured? "-without a clear conception of which no knowledge of mechanics or any comprehension of many of the simplest facts of nature is possible-such
replies as the following were given:(i) By multiplying the number of seconds a body is falling by 32.
(2) Angular space is measured by a delicate instrument which brings
the rays to one position on a stand or anything you like to put in the
way, and they take the angle and measure it and keep on like this at all
times of the year and then find the average.
(3) You take a pair of compasses and put a point on one star and a
point on the other, and then you look between your legs where they join
and judge the distance between them thus.
In I895 we again had a simple question as to a very
common instrument, the construction and use of which can be
taught to any child-" Describe the mariner's compass and
its chief uses;"-and we had a set of answers as bad as those
seven years earlier:(i) The Mariner's Compass is a thin bit of steel cut into 32 points.
(2) The Mariner's Compass is a box with a card and a lot of needles.
(3) The Mariner's Compass is a brass box with 24 circular cards
hinged on, no matter which way it rolls it carries these around with it.
(4) The Mariner's Compass is a box and a card with 32 points.
(5) If a sailor was shipwrecked on a desert island he could find a
north and south line if he had a Nautical Almanack.
(6) The Mariner's Compass is a circular bit of wood with a nail put
through it, and into this is a pivot which is very easily shook about, and
the Captain brings this to sea with him. Of course it has the Cardinal
points on it, N.E., S.W. etc., and he knows where he is.

4I6
MY LIFE
[CHAP.
(7) To repel the other great magnet, the earth, and to prevent the
ship (because of the iron) being attracted to the earth.
Of course it will be said that the examples here given
are all extreme cases, and that a majority of the papers
show a considerable amount of knowledge. But this is
altogether beside the question. I never had time or inclination to interrupt my work in order to copy all the very
ignorant answers, but only a few here and there which
specially struck me. For each one thus copied there were
at least a dozen equally bad, but often so wordy and involved
as to take too much time to preserve, while a far greater
number exhibited a little knowledge so intermingled with
gross ignorance, as for any useful purpose would be equally
bad.
But the point I wish to insist upon is, the utter failure of a
system which, at the end of twenty years, allows of any such
candidates as these taking part in an examination. The
failure is twofold. First, in the notion that any good can
result from the teaching of such a large and complex subject
to youths who come to it without any preliminary training
whatever, and who are crammed with it by means of a lesson
a week for perhaps one year; and, in the second place, the
attempting to teach such a subject at all before a sufficiently
capable body of teachers have been found who know the
whole range of subjects included in it, both theoretically and
practically, and who also know how to communicate to others
the knowledge they themselves possess.
In these examinations scores and sometimes hundreds of
papers come from single large schools, and it is a familiar
thing to examiners to find the same absurd error, often stated
in the very same words, running through a whole school,
except, perhaps, in the case of one or two exceptionally clever
lads who have, by reading or experiment, educated themselves upon the point in question. Now, the absurdity of the
system is, that the ignorant teacher never has his ignorance
pointed out to him, and imputes the failure of a number of
his pupils to their stupidity or carelessness, whereas it is
really all due to his own ignorance.

XXXIIIA] EXCURSIONS AND EXAMINATIONS 417

Another evil result of these examinations under a Government department is, that in order to justify their existence, it

is necessary to show a certain considerable amount of success.

Hence the " passes" are brought up to good general average,

however bad the bulk of the papers may be; and people are

deluded by the idea that because a person has passed in

Physiography he has a good general knowledge of the whole

subject, whereas many pass who are quite unfit to teach any

portion of it to the smallest child. My own conclusion is that

all these examinations are an enormous waste of public money,

with no useful result whatever. Nature-knowledge of the

kind referred to is the most important, the most interesting,

and therefore the most useful of all knowledge. But to be

thus useful it must be taught properly throughout the whole

period of instruction from the kinder-garten onwards, always

by means of facts, experiments, and outdoor observation,

supplemented, where necessary, by fuller exposition of difficult

points in the classroom.

The whole status of the teacher is degraded by the present

system, which assumes that any fairly educated person can,

by means of a few courses of lectures and a short period of

cramming, be qualified to teach these subjects to the young.

The real fact is that none can teach them properly who

have not a natural taste for them, and have largely taught

themselves by personal observation and study. They alone

know the difficulties felt by beginners; they alone are able to

go to the fundamental principles that underlie the most

familiar phenomena, and are thus able to make everything

clear to their pupils. Such men are comparatively rare, but

they should be carefully sought for and given the highest

rank in the teacher's profession. When that is done, no

examinations will be advisable or necessary.

Before quitting the examination question, I wish to say a

word in favour of the late Professor Ansted as an Examiner

in Physical Geography. On looking over many of the papers

set by him from I87I to 1877, I am greatly impressed by his

broad grasp of the whole subject, and the admirable manner

in which he dealt in turn with all the natural phenomena

VOL. II.                  aE

418  MY LIFE  [CHAP. XXXIIIA]

embraced in it, from the simplest to the most complex. He

usually set fifteen to sixteen questions, in both the Elementary

and Advanced stages, only eight of which were to be answered;

and they always comprised a considerable portion of the

whole field embraced in the study. I feel sure that the

questions set by him during any four or five years of the period

named, would serve as an admirable guide to a student who

wished to make himself master of the fascinating study of

earth-knowledge or "physiography."

INDEX
A
A., Mr., anecdotes of, i. 108, 129
Aar, exploring the gorge of the, ii. 214
Abbe Paris, miracles at the tomb of,
ii. 309
Aberhonddu, i. 161
Abbey-Cwm-Hir, i. I50, I6i
Aberystwith, i. I6i
Abyssinia, plants of, ii. 13, 2; effects
of Christianity in, ii. 53
"Acclimatization," article on, in the
" Encyclopredia Britannica," by A.
R. Wallace, ii. 98
Academy, The, review by A. R. Wallace, of " The Descent of Man " in,
11. 10
Aden, i. 335
Adelboden, Switzerland, ii. 220
Adirondacks, ii. I88
Adshead, Mr., his interest in spiritualism, ii. 322
"Adventures of Mrs. Leck and Mrs.
Aleshine, The," read by A. R. Wallace, ii. I35
Africa, plants of, ii. 13, 21
Agassiz, Louis, on the glacial epoch,
i. 134
Agassiz, Mr. Alexander, A. R. Wallace meets, ii. I o
Agassiz Museum of Zoology, ii. I o
" Age of Bronze, The," i. 113
"Age of Reason," Thomas Paine's, i.
87
Aiguilles, view of, i. 325
Ainsworth, W. Harrison, " Rookwood " by, i. 75
Airy, Sir G. B., lecture on Halley's
Comet, i. 247
Aksakoff, Hon. Alexander, visits at
Grays, ii. 93
Alabama, Fanny Wallace goes to, i.
223; returns from, i. 256
Albany Street, London, residence of
Mr. and Mrs. Sims at, i. 263
Albury, St. George Mivart builds a
house near, ii. 44
d'Alembert, quoted, ii. 284
Alexandria, described in letter to
George Silk, i. 332-335
Alexandria Bay, St. Lawrence river,
ii. 188
Ali, Malay servant, described, i. 382
Aliven, North Wales, ii. 401
Alleghanies, crossing the, ii. 138
Alien, Mr. Charles, his search for
birds of paradise, i. 387-394
Alien, Grant, on "' Colour Sense," ii.
71; "In Magdalen Tower," by, ii.
12I; A. R. Wallace's admiration
for, ii. 187; A. R. Wallace on, ii.
209; R. Le Gallienne on, ii. 218;
on English rule in India, ii. 262,
263; A. R. Wallace urges him to
write socialistic novel, i. 272, 273
Allen, Rev. J. A., A. R. Wallace's
friendship with, ii. I2I; visit to the
House of Representatives, ii. 124,
I25; A. R. Wallace stays with, ii.
187, I88
Allen, William, shareholder in the
New Lanark Mills, i. 98
Allingham, William, introduces A. R.
Wallace to Tennyson, ii. 298
Allman, Professor, his sufferings from

420
INDEX
"Alteriora," by Professor Stuart
Blackie, ii. 257
Alto Orinoco, A. R. Wallace's voyage
on the, ii. 71
Altrincham, A. R. Wallace's lecture
at, ii. 201
Alwen, North Wales, ii. 401
Amazon, The, i. 15, I94; A. R. Wallace and H. W. Bates undertake
collecting expedition to, i. 264, 275 -288; animal life on, i. 324, 328;
odoriferous plants on, ii. 68; expenses of expedition to, ii. 360
Amboyna, A. R. Wallace's expedition
to, i. 357, 369; butterflies of, i.
403
America, i. 417; dispersal of man in,
i. 422; trees with aromatic leaves
in, ii. 66; A. R. Wallace undertakes lecturing tour in, ii. Io5, Io6;
A. R. Wallace's lecturing tour in,
ii. 107, 199
Andermatt, walk to, ii. 213
Andes, i. 284, 326; odoriferous plants
on the, ii. 68
"'Animal Life and Intelligence," by
G. J. Romanes; reviewed by A. R.
Wallace, ii. 2Io
Animals, distribution of, ii. 94-98;
lectures on colours and mimicry of,
ii. IO5, I06, III, 126, 145, 148, 151,
158, I86, 385
"Animals and Plants under Domestication," by Darwin, i. 422; ii.
II
Annals and Magazine of Natural History, The, A. R. Wallace's article,
" On the Law which has regulated
the Introduction of New Species,"
in, i. 355; Rev. S. Haughton's article
" On the Bee's Cell and the Origin
of Species," in, ii. 87
Antarctic Islands, the plants of, studied
by Sir J. Hooker, ii. Ioo
Ansted, Professor, anecdote of, ii. 314;
examiner-in-chief in Physical Geography, ii. 406, 407; A. R. Wallace's
estimate of, ii. 417
Anthropology, A. R. Wallace lectures
on, ii. 128
' Anticipations and Hopes for the Im
mediate Future," by A. R. Wallace,
quoted, ii. 221-223
"Antiquity of Man, The," by Sir
Charles Lyell, i. 426, 430
Ants, the effect of, on plants, ii. 64-71
"Apparitions," articles by A. R. Wallace, published in The Arena, ii. 21o
" Appreciation of the Past Century,
by A. R. Wallace, in The Morning
Leader, ii. 220
Arctic Plants in the Southern Hemispkere and on Isolated Mountain-tops
within the Tropics, differences of
opinion between Darwin and A. R.
Wallace on, ii. 20, 387
Arena, The, A. R. Wallace writes an
article for, ii. 209; A. R. Wallace
writes two articles on " Apparitions,"
for, 210
Argyll, Duke of, discussions with, i.
435; " Origin of Species" criticised
by, ii. 8; on the flight of birds, ii. 25
Arjuna, mount, i. 376
Arkansas, ii. 178
Armstrong, Mr. and Mrs., A. R.
Wallace's friendship with, ii. 120

INDEX
421
Baincs, MIr. Edward, on the condition
of New Lanark, i. IOI
Baines, Mr., African traveller, i. 405
Baker, Mr., of Kew, ii. I3. See note
Baker, Professor James II., of Denver
High School, ii. 155
Balfour, Professor, A. R. Wallace calls
on, ii. 405
Balfour, Right lion. A. J., on the land
question, ii. 254; slances at, ii. 334
Bali, i. 356
Ball, Sir Robert, on "( Cause of the Ice
Age," ii. 216, 387
Baltimore, A. R. Wallace lectures at,
ii. II3, I14
Banda, i. 357, 369
Banka, A. R. Wallace goes to, i. 376
Bannerof Light, Boston, A. R. Wallace
writes letter to, ii. 340
Barking, A. R. Wallace takes a house
at, i. 416; ii. 90
Barra, Brazil, A. R. Wallace's expedition to, i. 281
Barrett, Professor, ii. 34; paper on
thought reading at the meeting of
the British Association, ii. 49; founds
Psychical Research Society, ii. 49
Barry, Mr., his designs for Houses of
Parliament, i. 189
Bartholomew's " Specifications for
Practical Architecture," i. 189
Bartlett, Mr., i. 384
Barton-in-the-Clay, William and A. R.
Wallace land-surveying at, i. IO6;
description of, i. Ill, II8
Batavia, i. 376
Batchian, A. R. Wallace's residence at,
i. 365, 367, 395
Bates, Henry Walter, entomologist, A.
R. Wallace's first meeting with, i.
237; extracts from correspondence
with, i. 254, 256; undertakes an
expedition to Brazil with A. R.
Wallace, i. 264, 266; the voyage
out, i. 267; nurses Herbert Wallace
with yellow fever and catches it himself, i. 282; collecting on the
Amazon, i. 326; letters from A. R.
Wallace to, i. 349-354, 358, 373,
377; on mimicry in animals, i. 407;
becomes assistant secretary of the
Royal Geographical Society, i. 415;
visits Darwin, ii. I; consulted by
Darwin on colouring of caterpillars,
ii. 3; first meeting witl Herbert
Spencer, ii. 23; urges WIallace to
investigate spiritualism, ii. 282; is
assistant examiner in Physical Geography, ii. 406
Bateson, Mr., A. R. Wallace criticizes,
ii. 213; on Utility, ii. 215
Bay of Biscay, storm in the, i. 267
BeaconJ, The, on " Bad Times," ii.
105
Beacons, the, in Brecknockshire, i.
I6o; account of, i. I62-165, 249;
walk to, i. 251-253
Beal, Professor, of Michigan, ii. I86
Deane, river, i. 34, 35
Beau Brummell, i. 7
Becca de Nona, excursion to, i. 413

422
INDEX
Bermuda, ii. Ioo
Bernheim, Dr., on Lourdes, ii. 307
Berry, Mrs. Catherine, ii. 277
Berwyn mountains, R. A. Wallace and
Mr. Mitten's walk to, ii. 402
Bessir, i. 371
Bethnal Green, museum at, A. R.
Wallace applies for directorship of,
i. 415, 422; ii. 90
Bettws-y-Coed, North Wales, ii. 404
Bevan, Mr., civil engineer, i. 136
Bierstadt, ii. 124
Biological Section of the British Association, A. R. Wallace president of,
ii. 49, 98
Bird, Miss, her account of Lake Tahoe,
ii. I74
Birds of Brazil, described, i. 274; search
for umbrella-bird, i. 281, 283; umbrella-bird, i. 314, 315; of Malacca
described, i. 339; exhibition of, from
New Guinea, i. 364; collection of,
from Batchian, i. 367; narrative of
search after birds of paradise, i. 387 -394; writings of A. R. Wallace on,
i. 394, 395; discussion on the flight
of, ii. 25, 26; migratory, discussed,
ii. 392, 394
Birmingham, i. I3I, 133; new railway
to, i. 140
"Birth of the Solar System, The,"
discussed, i. 427
Bishop of Georgia (Dr. Elliott), Columbia College, established by the, i. I4,
223
Blackdown, near Haslemere, Tennyson's residence at, ii. 298
Blackheath Park, residence of John
Stuart Mill, ii. 236
Blackie, Professor J. Stuart, his connection with A. R. Wallace, ii. 257
Bland, Mr. Hubert, as socialist, ii.
272
Bland, Dr. T. A., editor of The
Council Fire, ii. 129
Blatchford, Robert, his opinions on
military expenditure, ii. 223; "Merrie
England " by, ii. 268
Bloomington, Indiana, A. R. Wallace
lectures at, ii. I45
Bluecoat School at Ilertford, i. 42
Boisduval, Dr., his book on butterflies,
i. 329
Bombay, i. 383
Bonaparte, Prince Lucien, "Conspectus Generum Avium" by, i. 327, 355
Bond, Dr., Lord Grimthorpe's letter to,
ii. 357, 358
Borneo, i. 341, 350, 359; Sir James
Brooke's return to, ii. 52
Borrer, Mr. William, botanist, ii. 404
Borrow, George, author of" Lavengro,"
quoted on Welsh mutton, i. 159, I6I;
on Welsh literature, i. I68; quoted
on Pistill Rhaiadwr waterfall, ii.
403
Boston, A. R. Wallace stays at, ii. Io8;
first lecture at, ii. o9; occupation
at, ii. IIo, 115, II6; A. R. Wallace
describes seances at, ii. 337-341
Botany, A. R. Wallace's first interest
in, i. Ii; his studies in, i. I92 -I97; first literary effort in, i.
I99
Boulton and Watt, Messrs., i. 133
Bouru, i. 395; paper by A. R. Wallace

INDEX
423
Brecon, A. R. Wallace's long walk to,
i. I60, 178, 249
Brewster, Sir David, his letters on
Home's manifestations, ii. 287-290;
quoted, ii. 349
British Association, Sir Charles Lyell's
presidential address to, i. 417; Mr.
A. W. Bennett's paper on " Natural
Selection" read to, ii. 7; A. R.
Wallace's reminiscences of meetings
of, ii. 45-50
British Museum, i. 265, 313, 328; A.
R. Wallace studies at, i. 386; its
method of payment, ii. 376, 377
Brooke, Captain, disagreement with his
uncle, Sir James Brooke, ii. 51
Brooke, Charles, Rajah of Sarawak,
ii. 5I
Brooke, Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak,
i. 326; courtesy to A. R. Wallace,
i. 341; sketch of, i. 345-347; A. R.
Wallace's visits to, ii. 5I
Brooks, Rev. J. G., his address on
"What Socialists Want," ii. III
Brooks, Dr. W. K., zoologist, ii. II4
Brougham, Lord, present at Home's
seance at Cox's Hotel, ii. 287-290
Brown, Mrs., ii. 5I
Brown, Mr., agent to Earl de Grey,
i. 107; nephew of, i. I29
Brown, Mr. Curtis, suggests to A. R.
Wallace the plan for " Man's Place
in the Universe," ii. 232
Brown, Dr. John, eloquent preacher,
i. 240
Browne, A. G., A. R. Wallace stays
with, ii. 107, Io8, 125
Bruce-Joy, Mr. A., cures Dr. Wallace's
asthma, ii. 229, 230
Brunig, excursion to, ii. 214
Bryn-coch, life at, i. I79, 189, 194,
205; A. R. Wallace revisits, i. 253
Buccleuch, Duke of, made President of
the British Association, ii. 48, 49
Buckland, Dr., i. I34
Buckle, Henry Thomas, "History of
Civilization " by, ii. 31
Buckley, Miss Arabella, afterwards
Mrs. Fisher, i. 433, 435; ii. I5,
83; her interest in spiritualism,
ii. 296; helps to procure A. R.
Wallace a Civil Service Pension,
ii. 378
Buckingham, James Silk, as lecturer,
i. 130
Buffon, the naturalist, Samuel Butler's
exposition on doctrines of, ii. 83, 87
Builth, i. I48
Buitenzorg, i. 376
Bugis, language of Celebes, i. 356
Bukit Tima, French mission at, A. R.
Wallace stays at, i. 337, 348
Bull, Mr. William, his annual exhibition
of orchids, ii. 206
Bunbury, Sir Charles, i. 435
Bunyan, John, connection with the
Tinker of Turvey, i. 123
Burdett-Coutts, Lady, A. R. Wallace's

424
INDEX
"Caleb Williams," by W. Godwin, i.
75
California, John Wallace went to, i.
15; John Wallace settles in, i. 263
Cambridge, meeting of the British
Association at, ii. 46
Cambridge Natural Science Club, A.
R. Wallace reads paper on Zoological
Regions to, ii. 211
Cambridge, U.S.A., muscums of, ii.
IIO
"Can Telepathy Explain?" by Rev.
Minot J. Savage, ii. 337
Canada, A. R. Wallace lectures in,
ii. 125-128
Carpenter, Edward, as socialist, ii,
272
Carpenter, Dr. W. B., i. 4 I; ii. 34; A.
R. Wallace's reminiscences of, ii.
42, 43; opposes Professor Barrett's
paper on thought reading, ii. 49; his
attitude towards spiritualism, ii. 278,
285; quoted, ii. 349
Carpenter, Mr. William, referee for
Mr. Hampden in the flat-earth tests,
ii. 365-370, 376
Carrington, Lord, his experience in
small holdings, i. 154
Carroll, Lewis (C. L. Dodgson), A. R.
Wallace's pleasure in the books of,
i. 225
Carruthers, William, is assistant examiner in Physical Geography, ii.
406
Carter, Mr., owner of the inn at Silsoe,
i. 129
Carter, President, A. R. Wallace entertained by, ii. I
Cartwright, Sir Richard, A. R. Wallace
goes to tea at, ii. I87
Case, Henry, epitaph on, quoted, i. 7
Casey, Mr. Comerford, his translation
of an epitaph quoted, i. 9; Latin
speech translated by, ii. 102, 202
Cassell and Co., Messrs., new publishers
of the " Industrial Remuneration
Report," ii. 250
Cassiquiare, i. 3 6, 317; fruits of, ii. 71
Castle Howard, ii. 50
"Causes of War and the Remedies,"
the article by A. R. Wallace, ii. 220
"Caterpillars and Birds," letter to The
Field by A. R. Wallace, ii. 4-6
Caterpillars, colouring of, discussed,
ii. 3-7; injury done by, ii. 7I,
384
Cawood, Mr. John, deputy to report
on the condition of New Lanark, i.
IOI
Celebes, Dutch Settlement, i. 326; A.
R. Wallace's expedition to, i. 357,
367, 395, 403
Celtic literature and language, i. I67 -169
Ceram, i. 369, 375
Chadwell Spring, described, i. 37
Chamber's " Biographical Dictionary,"
estimate of Charles Mackay in, ii.
259
Chambers, Dr. Robert, his letter to A.
R. Wallace, ii. 285, 289

IND
Cincinnati, U.S.A., ii. I36; A. R.
Wallace stays at, ii. 141; lectures
at, ii. 145
"Cityless and Countryless World," by
Henry Olerich, ii. 267
Clarion, The, ii. 221; letter on
"Militarism" by A. R. Wallace
printed in, ii. 223
Clark, Dr. G. B., interest in land
nationalization, ii. 240
Clarke, Rev. James Freeman, ii. I 16
Clarke, Rev. R. F., " Lourdes and its
Miracles," by, ii. 305
Clarke, Sir James, Queen's physician,
ii. 259
Clear Creek Valley, ii. I77, I84
Clephan, Mr., architect, i. I14, 130
Cleveland, President, A. R. Wallace
visits, ii. 133
Clifford, Rev. John, as socialist, ii. 272
Clifton Forge, A. R. Wallace stays at,
ii. 138
Clutterbuck's " History of Herts," i. 5
Clydach river, i. I86
Coalburgh, West Virginia, residence of
Mr. Edwards, i. 265; ii. 136, I39
Cole, Sir Henry, of the Science and
Art Department at South Kensington,
i. 415
Coleman, Mr., on Sir David Brewster's
statements about Home, ii. 288
"Collected Essays," by Huxley, ii.
103
College Hill, A. R. Wallace lectures
at, ii. 145
Collen, Abbot of Glastonbury, i. I6I
Collingwood, J. F., is assistant examiner in Physical Geography, ii.
406
Collings, Mr. Jesse, his interest in land
nationalization, ii. 256
Colorado river, ii. 156
Colorado springs, ii. 176, I79
"Colours of Animals and Sexual
Selection, The," by A. R. Wallace,
ii. 386
" Colours of Animals," lecture by A.
R. Wallace, ii. 105, Io6, III, 126,
145, 148, 151, I58, i86
Columbia College, Georgia, Fanny
Wallace went to, as teacher, i. 14
EX 425
Combe, George, " Constitution of
Man," by, i. 234
" Compendium of Geography and
Travel," A. R. Wallace writes the
volume on Australia, ii. 101, 210
Coneysthorpe, ii. 65
"Consistency," tract by Robert Dale
Owen, i. 88
"Conspectus Generum Avium," by
Prince Lucien Bonaparte, i. 327,355
Constantinople, Russian designs, i. 347
"Constitution of Man," by George
Combe, i. 234
Constitutional, The, Radical newspaper,
i. 112, and note, 1I3
Contemporary Review, The, "A Representative House of Lords," by A. R.
Wallace in, ii. 212; "How best to
model the Earth," by A. R. Wallace

426
INDEX
Coues, Dr. Elliott, A. R. Wallace's
acquaintance with, ii. 117, 123; his
interest in spiritualism, ii. 341, 342
Coulcher, Mr., referee for A. R.
Wallace in the flat-earth experiments,
ii. 365-370
Coulson, Mr., mining engineer at
Sadong, i. 341, 343
Coulter's "Flora of the Rocky Mountains," ii. 176
Council Bluffs, ii. 185
Council Fire, The, ii. I29
Coupang, i. 369
Couvercle, i. 325
Coventry, i. I38, 238
Cowper, William, the poet, quoted,
i. 28
Cox, Mr., of Cox's Hotel, sednce held
at, ii. 287-290
Cox, Mr. Robert, A. R. Wallace stays
with, in Edinburgh, ii. 257
Cox, Serjeant, ii. 277
"Creed of Science," by W. Graham,
Darwin's comments on, ii. 14
Creighton, Dr. C., on epidemic
diseases, ii. 354
Crimea, i. 331; A. R. Wallace's
remarks on the war, i. 347
Croll, Mr. James, on the glacial epoch,
i. 406, 425; ii. 13; A. R. Wallace
corresponds with, ii. Ioo; on the
Ice Age, ii. 216, 386
Crookes, Sir William, ii. 34; his interest
in spiritualism, ii. 277, 336; reception of his book on spiritualism, ii.
282; present at seance, ii. 286; electrical tests, ii. 291; on mediums, ii.
294; experiments with Mr. Home,
ii. 295
Crowell, Dr. Eugene, his " Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism," ii. 295
Croydon, A. R. Wallace resides at,
ii. 98; Romanes calls at, ii. 314
Crutwell, Clement Henry, headmaster
of Hertford Grammar School, described, i. 49-51; boarders' meals
at, i. 55; November 5th celebrations,
i.66
Crymlyn Burrows, walk to, described,
i. 247
Crynant, i. I80
Crystal Palace, i. 321
Cuba, A. R. Wallace writes for Daily
Chronicle, on, ii. 220
Cubitt, Mr., builder, i. 14
Culverwell, Mr. E. P., ii. 387
D
Daily Chronicle, The, A. R. Wallace
interviewed by, ii. 2Io; writes for,
ii, 220
Dale, Mr., mill-owner, Robert Owen's
connection with, i. 95
Dalhousie, Earl of, his connection with
the Industrial Remuneration Conference, ii. 250
Dana, Professor J. D., A. R. Wallace
meets, ii. I13; on permanence of
oceanic and continental areas, ii.
386
Dante's "Inferno," read by A. R.
Wallace, i. 75
"Darkness and Dawn, the Peaceful
Birth of a New Age," ii. 268

INDEX
427
criticism of "Origin of Species,"
ii. 8, 9; A. R. Wallace's review of
"The Descent of Man," ii. Io; St.
George Mivart's attitude towards,
ii. IO; on the glacial epoch, ii. 12;
letters to A. R. Wallace from, ii. I3 -15; differences of opinion between
A. R. Wallace and, ii. I6; I. The
Origin of 2MIan as an Intellectual
and Moral Being, ii. I6; 2. Sexual
Selection through Female Choice, ii. I 7;
3. Arctic Plants in Southern Hemisphere, and on Isolated Mountain-tops
within the Tropics, ii. 20; 4. Pangenesis, ii. 21; A. R. Wallace's
feelings towards, ii. 39; Mivart's
criticism of, ii. 44; Samuel Butler
on, ii. 84; death of, ii. 102, 103;
his letteis to Romanes on spiritualism,
ii. 315, 3I7-32I, 324; helps to
procure Civil Service Pension for
A. R. Wallace, ii. 378; references
to, ii. 383, 384, 386, 387, 388,
390
Darwin, Dr. Erasmus, ii. I; Samuel
Butler's exposition of the doctrines
of, ii. 83, 84
Darwin, Mr. Francis, ii. 387
Darwin, Professor G. H., ii. 387
"Darwinism," by James Hutchinson
Stirling, ii. 212
"Darwinism," A. R. Wallace lectures
on, ii. 105, io6, 109, 113, II4, I26,
127, 153, 158, i86
"Darwinism," by A. R. Wallace,
i. 417; coloration of insects treated
in, ii. 6; sexual selection through
female choice treated in, ii. I8;
writes, ii. 206; new edition of, ii. 220,
3I6, 386
Davidson, Mr., of the U.S. Geological
Survey, ii. I58
Davies, Miss, A. R. Wallace boarded
with, i. 69, 70
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, ii. 277
Davos, Dr. Lunn's party at, ii. 216 -220, 228, 231
Davy, Sir Humphry, his "Lectures on
Agricultural Chemistry," i. 205
Dawson, Sir William, Canadian geologist, ii. 43, ii6
" Debatable Land between this World
and the Next, The," by Robert Dale
Owen, ii. 294
" Defence of Modern Spiritualism," by
A. R. Wallace, in The Fortnightly
Review, ii. 295
Defoe, Daniel, his "History of the
Great Plague," i. 74
Dent du Midi, i. 412
Denver, A. R. Wallace goes to, ii.
155, I76, 184
"Descent of Man," by Charles Darwin, i. 408, ii. 7; A. R. Wallace's
impressions of, ii. 9, 10, i8
"Development of Human Races under
the Law of Natural Selection,"
article by A. R. Wallace, ii. 383
De Vries, Dutch botanist, ii. 213
Devynock, i. I65
Dialectical Society, A. R. Wallace on
the committee of, ii. 276; Mr.
Varley's evidence in the Report of
the, ii. 29I; A. R. Wallace reads

428
INDEX
Dolgelly, Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Wallace's stay at, i. 412; slate quarries
at, ii. 362; excursion to, ii. 404
Donner Lake, Nevada, ii. I73
" Don Quixote," i. 330
Dorey, i. 363; birds of paradise at, i.
388, 389
Dorking, A. R. Wallace resides at, ii.
98, 397
Doubleday, Mr. Edward, consulted on
the proposed journey to the Amazon,
i. 264
Douglas, Miss, sdances at the house of,
ii. 286; seance with Mr. Haxby, described, at, ii. 328
Down, Charles Darwin's house at,
ii. I
Dozens, Dr., at Lourdes, ii. 303,
304
"Dream of Eugene Aram, The," A.
R. Wallace's association of, i. 40
Dringarth, i. 251
Drinkwater, Mr., Robert Owen's connection with, i. 93-95
Drumau mountain, i. 244, 248
Dublin University, degree of LL.D.
conferred on A. R. Wallace, by the,
ii. 102
Dufour, Dr. Leon, " IIistoire de la
Prostitution " by, i. 372; ii. 68
Dulais valley, i. 253
Duncombe, Thomas Slingsby, election
of, for Hertford, i. 44
Dundee, meeting of the British Association at, ii. 48
Dunn, Dr., of Cincinnati, ii. 142
Dunstable, i. 131
Dury, Mr. Charles, ii. 14I; A. R.
Wallace stays with, ii. I43; his
experience of a snake-bite, ii. 144;
his collections, ii. I44
Dutton, Captain, ii. II8
Dyaks, i. 343; described, i. 345
Dyer, Mr., i. 31
Dyer, Sir W. T. Thistleton, gives
plants to A. R. Wallace for his
Parkstone garden, ii. 206
"Dynamic Sociology," by F. Lester
Ward, ii. 117
E
Ealing, scance at, 287, 289
Eastwood, Miss, goes botanizing expedition to Gray's Peak, ii. 180-184
Eastwood, Mr. and Mrs., ii. 184
Edinburgh, meeting of the British
Association at, ii. 48
Edinburgh Review, The, review of
" Origin of Species " in, ii. 2
Edmunds, Dr. and Mrs., ii. 277
Edwards, W. H., "A Voyage up the
Amazon," i. 264; his meeting with
A. R. Wallace, i. 265; ii. 136; A.
R. Wallace stays with, ii. 139, 140
Ega, i. 359
Eglinton, Mr., medium seance described, ii. 329, 331
Elam, Dr., " Physician's Problems"
by, ii. 65
"Elements of Botany," Lindley's,
i. I93
Elliott, Dr., Bishop of Georgia, i. 14,
223
Elliotson, Dr., helps to establish
mesmeric hospital, ii. 75; his investigations of mesmerism, ii. 310

INDEX
429
Entomological Society, A. R. Wallace
attends meetings of, i. 386; A. R.
Wallace's presidential address to,
i. 408, 415; coloration of caterpillars discussed by, ii. 4; address
on origin of insects by A. R. Wallace,
given at, ii. 26
"Episodes Miraculeux de Lourdes,
Les," by M. Henri Lasserre, ii. 305
Epitaphs, quoted, i. 7-9
Epping Forest, acquired by Corporation of London, i. 416; A. R.
Wallace candidate for post of superintendent, ii. IoI
"Epping Forest, and how best to deal
with it," in The Fortnightly Review,
by A. R. Wallace, i. 416
' Equality," by E. Bellamy, considered,
ii. 268-27
"Erewhon," by Samuel Butler, ii. 83,
189
"Essay on the Right of Property in
Land," by Professor Ogilvie, ii. 241
"Essays on Natural Selection " by A.
R. Wallace, ii. 17
Essex Field Club, A. R. Wallace gives
lecture on " Darwinism " to, ii. Io6
Estcourt, Mr. Roland, his connection
with Nationalization Society, ii. 240
Evans, Mr. Fred, medium at San
Francisco, ii. 346
"Evelina," by Fanny Burney, i. 75
"Every Man his own Letter-Writer,"
A. R. Wallace's comments on, ii.
135
" Evolution Old and New," by Samuel
Butler, ii. 83; A. R. Wallace's letter
on, ii. 84
Ewington and Chilcot, Messrs.,
solicitors, i. 6
Exeter, meeting of the British Association at, ii. 46
" Exeter Change for the British Lions,"
parody on the British Association,
ii. 46
" Expression of the Emotions in Man
and Animals, The," by Darwin, ii. I,
II
F
"Faerie Queene," Spenser's, read by
A. R. Wallace, i. 75
" Fair Heaven, The," by Samuel
Butler, ii. 83
Fairchild, President George F. F., conversation with, ii. 152, 153
Fairlamb, Miss, medium, ii. 334
Family Herald, The, i. 366, 368
Farr, Dr., on Vaccination, ii. 351
Fawcett, Mr. W., sends A. R. Wallace
Jamaica orchids, ii. 206
Fay, Mrs., medium, ii. 291
Fernando Po, plants on, ii. 21
Ferrier, Professor, i. 262
Field, The, " Caterpillars and Birds,"
by A. R. Wallace, printed in, ii. 4;
J. H. Walsh, editor of, ii. 365, 367
Fielding's, Henry, " Tom Jones " read
by A. R. Wallace, i. 75
Fillingham, Rev. R. C., as socialist,
ii. 272
" First Principles," by Herbert
Spencer, admiration of A. R. Wallace for, ii. 23
Fish of Brazil, described, i. 274, 285,

430
INDEX
"English and American Flowers,"
ii. I43; "Human Selection," ii. 209,
267; "The Method of Organic
Evolution," ii. 212, 213; "The
Expressiveness of Speech," ii. 213;
"Man's Place in the Universe,"
ii. 232; "A Defence of Modern
Spiritualism," ii. 295
Fortune, Mr., plant-collector, ii. 6I
"Forty-five Years of Registration
Statistics, proving Vaccination to
be both Useless and Dangerous,"
pamphlet by A. R. Wallace, ii. 352
Foster, Joseph, shareholder in the New
Lanark Mills, i. 98
Foxwell, Professor, his connection
with the Industrial Remuneration
Conference, ii. 250
Fraser's Magazine, review of "Origin
of Species" in, ii. 2
Freeman, Mr. and Mrs., of Stockton,
ii. 159, I6o
Freeman's Yournal on "Bad Times,"
ii. I04
Frcebel, educational system of, i. 99
Frolic, gun-boat, waiting for orders to
go to Singapore, i. 329-33I
Fruits of the East, described, i. 353,
354; Dr. Spruce on coloration of,
ii. 71-73
Fry, Mrs., her influence on prisoners,
ii. 218
"Fuel of the Sun," by W. Mattieu
Williams, discussed, i. 429
G
Galapagos, the plants of, studied by
Sir J. Hooker, ii. Ioo
Galaudet, Dr., head of National Deaf
Mute College, Washington, ii. I30
Galle, i. 335
" Gallos de Serra," hunt for, i. 284
Galton, Mr. Francis, " Hereditary
Genius," by, i. 408, 422; experiments of, ii. 22, 34; A. R. Wallace
on, ii. 209; A. R. Wallace criticizes,
ii. 213
Garden of the Gods described, ii. 179,
I8o
Gardener's Chronicle, i. 193
Garrison, Mr. F. J., his interest in
spiritualism, ii. 337
Geach, Mr. Frederick, mining engineer,
i. 375; helps A. R. Wallace at
Grays, ii. 92, 93; unfortunate investments in lead mines, ii. 362, 363;
accompanies A. R. Wallace and Mr.
Mitten to excursion in Wales, ii.
403
Geddes, Professor Patrick, of Edinburgh, ii. 34
Geikie, Sir Archibald, geological excursion at St. Andrews under the
guidance of, ii. 286
Gelli-duch-lithe, owned by Mr. Worthington, i. I83, I86
Gemmi Pass, A. R. Wallace's ascent
of, i. 325
General Chronicle, i. 12
"General Inclosure Act," A. R.
Wallace's criticism on, i. 150-I58
"Genesis of Species, The," ii. o0
"Geographical Distribution of Animals," by A. R. Wallace, ii. 94-98,
379

INDEX
431
Gladstone, W. E. quoted, i. 81; letter
to A. R. Wallace, ii. 213; his discussion with Huxley, ii. 374; grants
Civil Service Pension to A. R.
Wallace, ii. 378, 389
Glasgow Argus, The, Charles Mackay
editor of, ii. 259
Glasgow, meeting of the British Association at, ii. 49
Glen Clova, A. R. Wallace and Mr.
Mitten go to, ii. 404
Glen Eyrie, ii. 179, i8o
Gnoll House, i. 245, 248
Goat Island, Niagara, ii. I27
Godalming, i. 137, 19o; ii. 15; A.
R. Wallace goes to live at, ii. 103;
returns from America to, ii. 200;
the garden at, ii. 202, 203; A. R.
Wallace sells his house at, ii. 227,
374
Godwin, Mr., master at Hertford
Grammar School, i. 53
Godwin's, William, " Caleb Williams,"
read by A. R. Wallace, i. 75
Gceschenen, A. R. Wallace goes to, ii.
213
Gold Run, California, ii. 175
Goram, i. 370
Gordon, Lady Duff, " Letters from
Egypt," ii. 53
"Gorge of the Aar and its Teachings,
The," article by A. R. Wallace, ii.
215
Gorst, Sir John, is sent A. R. Wallace's
pamphlet on Vaccination, ii. 354
Gould, Mr., at the Naturalists' Club
dinner, ii. 115
Graells, Professor, of Madrid, ii. 68
Graham, William, " Creed of Science"
by, ii. 14
Grammar School at Hertford, John and
A. R. Wallace educated at, i. 46;
its building, i. 48; the masters, i. 49;
food, i. 55; recreations, i. 56-58
Grant, Principal, of Kingston, ii. 125
Gravesend, i. 416
Gray, Dr. Asa, A. R. Wallace makes
the acquaintance of, ii. o09, IIo;
A. R. Wallace dines with, ii. I I, i I6
Gray, George Robert, of the British
Museum, i. 386
Gray, Dr. John Edward, his opinion of
A. R. Wallace's review of Mr.
Haughton, ii. 88
Graymount, ii. I55; botanizing at, ii.
180, I8I, 184
Grays, A. R. Wallace builds house at,
i. 416, ii. 60, 91-93; A. R. Wallace
sells house at, ii. 98; A. R. Wallace's
troubles with the builder of, ii. 363,
364
Gray's Peak, botanizing expedition to,
ii. 180-I84
Great Brickhill, i. 133
"Great Revolution of 1905," by F.
W. Hayes, ii. 268
Greely, Captain, Arctic explorer, ii. 19
Greenbriar river, ii. 139
Green, Mr., celebrated aeronaut, ii. 75
Green river, ii. 176

432
INDEX
"Gulliver's Travels," read by A. R.
Wallace, i. 74
Gunnison river, ii. 176, I77
Guppy, Mr. and Mrs., seances at,
ii. 300, 30; quoted, ii. 314
Gurney, Mr. Edward, helps to found
Psychical Research Society, ii. 49;
investigate spiritualism, ii. 334
Guy Faux, serio-comic play by A. R.
Wallace, i. 239
Guy, Dr., on vaccination, ii. 352
Gwilym, Dafydd ap, Welsh poet, i. I68
H
"Habit and Instinct," by Professor
Lloyd Morgan, ii. 220
Haddock, Dr., his investigations of
mesmerism, ii. 310
Haeckel, Samuel Butler, on the theories
of, ii. 83
Hagen, Mr., at the Naturalists' Club
dinner, ii. 115
Haggar, Morris, i. 372
Haileybury College, i. 39
Hale, Mr., anthropologist, ii. 126
Hall, Mr. Spencer, his lecture on
mesmerism, i. 232;
Hall, Mr. S. C., ii. 277; present at
stance, ii. 285
Hall of Science, lectures at the, i. 87;
Robert Owen's addresses at, i. 104
Halley's Comet, i. 247
Halston, Jack Mytton of, i. 171
Hampden, John, his challenge to prove
the convexity of the earth, ii. 365;
A. R. Wallace accepts wager, ii. 365;
the tests, ii. 365-369; his behaviour
on losing his wager, ii. 370, 371; A.
R. Wallace's legal actions against,
ii. 372, 373; his continued libels on
A. R. Wallace, ii. 374-376
HIanbury, Sir Thomas, visits A. R.
Wallace at Parkstone, ii. 206
Ilannay and Dietrichsen's Almanac, i.
191
IHanworth, the Wallaces' connection
with, i. 2, 3
Harper's Ferry, ii. 136
Harrison, Mr. Frederic, his connection
with the Industrial Remuneration
Conference, ii. 250
Hart, Captain, A. R. Wallace stayed
with, i. 375
Hartham described, i. 34, 35, 63
Harvard University, ii. I I
Haslemere, A. R. Wallace visits
Tennyson at, ii. 298, 799
Haughton, Rev. S., article " On the
Bee's Cell and the Origin of Species,"
by, ii. 87; A. R. Wallace's criticism
of, ii. 88; kind letter from, 89
Haweis, Rev. H. R., one of Dr. Lunn's
party at Davos, ii. 217, 218
Hay, i. I6o, I78
Haxby, Mr., medium, seancedescribed,
ii. 328, 329
Haydon, Mrs., medium, G. H. Lewes
assertions on, ii. 28I, 283, 290
Hayes, F. W., "Great Revolution of

INDEX
433
described, i. 32-44; school life at,
described, i. 45-62
Hicks, Edwin Thomas, his delineation
of the character of A. R. Wallace, i.
258
Higgins, H. H., of Turvey Abbey,
anecdote of, i. 122, 123
Higham Gobion, i. Io6, o09
Hilgard, Professor, ii. I58
Hill, Rev. Abraham, head master at
Collegiate School at Leicester, i.
230-238
Hill, Mr., master at IIertford Grammar
School, i. 53
Hirwain, i. 250
"Histoire de la Prostitution," by Dr.
Leon Dufour, i. 372
"History and Antiquities of Hertfordshire," by Chauncey, i. 5
" History of America," by William
Robertson, i. 232
"History of Charles V.," by William
Robertson, i. 232
"History of Civilization," by Buckle,
ii. 31.
"History of the Conquests of Mexico
and Peru," by Prescott, i. 232
"History of the Great Plague," by
Defoe, read by A. R. Wallace, i.
74
"History of Herts," by Clutterbuck,
i. 5
Hitchin, i. Io9, II6
Hobson, J. A., as socialist, ii. 272
Hoddesdon, the Wallace family removed to, i. 12; boarding school
kept by Fanny Wallace at, i. 13, 72;
Rawdon Cottage at, i. 73; A. R.
Wallace walks to, i. I6; holiday
at, i. I35; A. R. Wallace returns
ill to, i. I47; death of Thomas Vere
Wallace at, i. 223; Christmas at,
i. 229
Hodges, Mrs. Frances, miniature of,
i. 6
Hoffmann, Dr., ii. II9
Hogg, Mr., takes A. R. Wallace for
a drive, ii. I52
Hogsflesh, Henry Holman, i. 122
Holden, Professor, of the Lick Observatory, ii. 158
VOL. II.
Holder, Dr. J. B., ii. 125
Holly Lodge, A. R. Wallace's house
at Barking, ii. 90
IIolman, Judge, quoted, ii. 120; visits
President Cleveland, ii. 133
Holmes, Oliver Wendell, A. R.
Wallace nakes the acquaintance of,
ii. o09, 0 IO; dining with Mr. Forbes,
ii. II5
Holyhead, i. 131
Holyoake, Mr. G. J., obituary notice
of Robert Owen by, i. I05
Home, Mr., the medium, ii. 282;
stances described, ii 285, 286;
Sir David Brewster's comments on
seance at Cox's Hotel, ii. 287-290, 349
"Home Life of Sir David Brewster,"
ii. 289
Honddu, i. i6i

434
INDEX
Iuc's "Travels," i. 349
Hudson, Miss, ancestor of A. R. Wallace, i. 4
Hudson, Mr., " Naturalist in La Plata,
The," by, ii. 7I, 158; reviewed by
A. R. Wallace, ii. 210
Hudson river, A. R. Wallace's excursion up, ii. io8
Hughes, Rev. Hugh Price, one of Dr.
Lunn's party at Davos, ii. 217, 218
Hughes and Son, Messrs., of Wrexham,
Welsh literature published by, i. i68
"Human Personality," by Myers, ii.
331
"Human Progress, Past and Future,"
in the Boston Arena, ii. 389
"Human Selection," by A. R. Wallace
in The Fortnightly Review, ii. 209,
267, 389
r'Humanitd Nouville, article by A.
R. Wallace in, ii. 220
Humbold's " Personal Narrative of
Travels in South America," its influence on A. R. Wallace, i. 232;
"Cosmos," by, i. 255, 354; quoted,
ii. 72
Humboldt river, ii. I76
Hume, David, quoted, ii. 309
"Humphrey Clinker," read by A. R.
Wallace, i. 75
Hunter, W. W., Director-General of
Statistics for India, ii. 263
Hurstpierpoint, residence of Mr. Mitten at, i. 41; A. R. Wallace's visits
to, i. 41 I; goes to live at, i. 414,
422
IIutchinson, Mr. J. G., on working
men'swages, i. 8I
Huxley, Leonard, ii. 37
Huxley, T. H., first meeting with A.
R. Wallace, i. 323;," On the Origin
of Species," i. 355, 415; his classification of man, i. 419; quoted, ii.
16, 21; social meetings at, ii. 33;
A. R. Wallace's friendship with, ii.
34; his misunderstanding with A.
R. Wallace, ii. 36; correspondence
on Mr. Bell's works, ii. 37; A. R.
Wallace's feelings towards, ii. 39,
42; acquaintance with Dr. Purland,
ii. 75; obituary notice of Darwin by,
ii. 103; his attitude towards spiritualism, ii. 280, 350; John Hampden's letter to, ii. 374; helps to
procure Civil Service Pension for A.
R. Wallace, ii. 378
Hyatt, Mr., biologist, ii. o09; at Boston Naturalists' Club dinner, ii. II5
Hyndham, Mr. H. M., reprints lecture
by Thomas Spence, ii. 240
Hyndman, H. M., as socialist, ii. 272
I
Ibis, The, A. R. Wallace's paper on
" Pigeons" published in, i. 399
" Ice Age and its Work," articles by
A. R. Wallace, ii. 210
"Ice-marks in North Wales," by A.
R. Wallace, printed in Quarterly
Journal of Science, i. 412
Iles, Mr., manager of Windsor Hotel,
Montreal, ii. 86; A. R. Wallace
stays with, ii. I89
"Iliad," Pope's, read by A. R. Wallace, i. 75
Inambari river, i. 320
"Incidents in my Life," by Home, the
medium, ii. 289

INDEX
435
Irish Land League, ii. 239
"Island Life," by A. R. Wallace, i.
406; influence of glacial epoch discussed in, i. 425; Darwin's opinion
of, ii. 12; distribution of organisms
treated in, ii. 20; A. R. Wallace
lectures on, ii. Io6, II3; new edition
of, ii. 220, 386, 387
Isleworth, i. 223
J
James, Dr. William, at the Naturalists'
Club dinner, ii. II5, II6, 338
Java, i. 287; natural history of, i. 326,
350; ruined temples of, i. 356, 376;
birds of, i. 396, 397; climate of, ii.
98
Javita, good specimens to be found at,
i. 284
Jekyll, Miss, gives plants to A. R.
Wallace for his Parkstone garden, ii.
206
Jenner, William, inventor of Vaccinanation, ii. 351
Jessop, Rev. A., i. I56
Jevons, Mr. William, an account of, i.
246
Jhering, H. von, his criticism on
"Island Life," ii. 387
Johns Hopkins University, A. R.
Wallace lectures at, ii. I14
Jones, Lloyd, Robert Owen's connection with, i. 92, 93; his book on
the life of Robert Owen, i. I05
Jones, Professor T. Rupert, assistant
examiner in Physical Geography, ii.
406
Jordeson, the crew of the Helen picked
up by the, i. 306
"Journal," Darwin's, i. 256
Juaurite, A. R. Wallace's expedition to,
i. 283, 284
Judd, Professor, assistant examiner in
Physical Geography, ii. 406
Julesberg, ii. 184
Jurua river, explored by Count Stradelli,
i. 317
Jurupari cataract, explored by Count
Stradelli, i. 317; Dr. T. Koch's expedition to, i. 320
"Justice," by Herbert Spencer, i. I75;
reference to, ii. 272
K
Kanahwha river, ii. I39
Kansas City, I46, I50
Kavanagh, Mr. Morgan, friend of Dr.
Purland, ii. 80
Kay, Dr., of Theological College in
Calcutta, ii. 52
Ke Islands, i. 369, 370
Keeler, Mr. P. L. O. A., medium,
manifestations of, ii. 342
Keller, Helen, i. 182
Kenilworth Castle, excursion to, i. 238
Kennan, Mr., address on Siberia, ii,
I19
Kent's Cavern, ii. 49
Kenworthy, J. C., as socialist, ii. 272
Kerner's observations on plants, ii. 65
Keulemans, illustrations by, i. 405
Kidd, Mr. Benjamin, on equality of
opportunity, i. 175; "Social Evolution" by, ii. 212
Kilburn, Mr. N., John Stuart Mill's

436
INDEX
L
L-, Miss, A. R. Wallace's engagement to, i. 409-411
Labour Annual letter from A. R.
Wallace on "Strikes" in the, ii.
223
Lacaze, M., on Lourdes, ii. 307
"Lady of the Lake, The," read by
A. R. Wallace, i. 74
Lake-basins, glacial origin of, i. 412
Laleham, burial-place of William and
George Wallace, i. 2, 3
Lamarck, theories of, i. 362; Samuel
Butler's exposition of the doctrines of,
ii. 83, 84
"Lament of Cona for the Unpeopling of
the Highlands," by Charles Mackay,
ii. 258, 260
"Land Nationalization: its Necessity
and its Aims," by A. R. Wallace,
i. 158; ii. 102, 243; read by Robert
Miller, ii. 249; Charles Mackay on,
ii. 259, 381
Land Nationalization, A. R. Wallace
on, ii. 130; Herbert Spencer on,
ii. 235; discussed, ii. 238-239; forerunners of, ii. 240; Robert Dick's
propositions on, ii. 241-243; Robert
Miller's conference on, ii. 249-255
Land Nationalization Society, formation
of, ii. 27-29; A. R. Wallace, president of, ii. 235, 240; A. R. Wallace
writes handbook to, ii. 243; methods
of, ii. 254; Henry George's connection
with, ii. 255; Miss Helen Taylor,
a supporter of, ii. 256; A. R.
Wallace's address on "Security of
the Iome " at meeting of, ii. 264, 265
Land Tenure Reform Association,
formed by John Stuart Mill, ii. 235
Langley, Professor, lecture by, ii. IIo;
A. R. Wallace met, ii. I 4
Laplace, his theory of the origin of the
solar system, i. 427
Lasserre, M. Henri, his books on the
miracles of Lourdes, ii. 305-307
Latham, Dr. R. G., writes some
"remarks" on Indian languages for
A. R. Wallace's book of "Travels,"
i. 321; superintends the modelling
of Indian figures for the Crystal
Palace, i. 322
Lauterbrunnen, The Staubbach at,
i. 414; A. R. Wallace goes to,
ii. 214; i. 134
Lawrence, A. R. Wallace lectures at,
ii. 151
Lawrence's " Lectures on Man," i. 254,
366
Lea river, i. 34, 35
Leavens, Mr., A. R. Wallace given
introduction to, i. 265
Leaves, odours of, ii. 65-71
Lecky, Mr., i. 435
Leconte, Dr., ii. I58
"Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry,"
by Sir H. Davy, i. 205
"Lectures on Man," by Lawrence, i.
254, 366
"Lectures on Physical Geography," by
Rev. S. Haughton, ii. 88

INDEX
437
Lindley, article by, i. I94, 237; "Vegetable Kingdom " by, ii. 67
Lindley's' " Elements of Botany"
bought by A. R. Wallace, i. 193
Linnean Society, The, i. 320,363; A. R.
Wallace's paper on " Varieties" read
to, i. 365, 366; A. R. Wallace attends
meetings of, i. 386; paper on the
"Malayan Papilionidle" read before,
i. 400; A. R. Wallace reads paper on
"The Problem of Utility" to, ii. 215;
Romanes' paper on "Physiological
Selection" at, ii. 316
Liverpool, anecdote of Mr. Higgins at,
i. 122, 267; A. R. Wallace arrives
from America at, ii. 200; A. R.
Wallace lectures at, ii. 201, 209
Lippitt, General Francis, ii. 123, 341;
his spiritualistic experiences, ii. 344 -346
Llanbadock, Welsh village, i. 21, 23, 26
Llanberris, Mr. and Mrs. A. R.
Wallace stay at, i. 412
Llanbister, W. and A. R. Wallace
surveying at, i. 148, 150
Llandrillo, North Wales, ii. 403
Llandrindod, i. 151
Llanfihangel-nant-Melan, i. I6I
Llangollen, i. I6I
Llanrhaiadr, i. 249
Llantwit Cottage at Neath, residence of
Wallaces at, i. 244, 256
Llantwit-juxta-Neath, survey of, i. 245
Llia river, i. 167, 251
Llewellyn, Mr. J. Dillwyn, orchid of,
i. 194
Lobo Raman, A. R. Wallace goes to,
i. 376
Lockyer, Sir Norman, his theory of the
solar system, i. 427; ii. 34; assistant
examiner in Physical Geography, ii.
406
Lodge, Sir Oliver, as socialist, ii. 272
Lombok, A. R. Wallace's stay at,
i. 356; birds of, i. 396, 420
London, A. R. Wallace's life in, i. 79,
87, II7; by rail to, i. 135, 243; A.
R. Wallace's return to, from the
Amazon, i. 313, 325; A. R. Wallace
returns to, from the Malay Archipelago, i. 384; A. R. Wallace resides
in, i. 385, 411, 414; A. R. Wallace
leaves, ii. 90, 200
Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, Charles
Mackay in comparison with, ii. 260
"Looking Backwood," by E. Bellamy,
considered, ii. 266
Lourdes, the miracles of, ii. 302-309
"Lourdes and its Miracles," by Rev.
R. F. Clarke, ii. 305
"Lourdes avec Zola, A," by Felix
Lacaze, ii. 307, 341
Lowell Institute of Boston, invites A.
R. Wallace to give series of lectures,
ii. 105, Io6
Lowell, J. Russell, one of Darwin's
pall-bearers, ii. 103; at farewell
dinner to A. R. Wallace, ii. I 5
Lowestoft, epitaph on Charles Ward
at, quoted, i. 8
Lubbock, Sir John (Lord Avebury),

438
INDEX
A. R. Wallace's feelings towards,
ii. 39, 90; A. R. Wallace consults,
ii. 365
Lyell, Sir Leonard, i. 417
Lyman, Mr. Daniel, his interest in
spiritualism, ii. I23
Lytton, Bulwer, works of, read by
R. A. Wallace, i. 75
M
Madagascar, black pigeons of, i. 400
Madeira, beetles of, i. 408; insects of,
i. 418
Madeira river, explored by Count
Stradelli, i. 317, 324
Madisonville cemeteries, ii. 142
Macassar, A. R. Wallace's residence
in, i. 356
Machynlleth, slate quarries at, ii. 362
Macintosh, Mr., on formation of
valleys and cwms of North Wales,
i. 412
Mackay, Charles, his interest in land
nationalization, ii. 257-259; the
poetry of, considered, ii. 259-261
Macmillan and Co., Messrs., remaining
copies of "Travels on the Amazon
and Rio Negro," sold by, i. 321;
visited at Torquay by A. W. Wallace,
ii. 49; " Bad Times," published by,
ii. I05
Macmillan's Magazine, "Disestablishment and Disendowment," by A.
R. Wallace in, i. 432
Macmillan, Margaret, as socialist,
ii. 272
Maen Llia, ancient "standing stone,"
i. I67
Maescar, i. 165
Magdalene College, Cambridge, ii. 45
Maggiore, Lago, formation of, discussed,
i. 428
Maklay, Dr. Micklucho, adventures of,
ii. 34, 35
Malacca described, i. 338, 339, 340,
350
Malacca, Straits of, i. 336
Malay Archipelago, A. R. Wallace
determines to go to, i. 326; sketch of
A. R. Wallace's travels in, i. 337 -384; butterflies of, i. 401; financial
success of collections from, ii. 360
" Malay Archipelago," by A. R. Wallace, i. 342, 357, 387, 402; popularity of, i. 403; at work on, i. 405;
publication of, i. 414; estimate of
Sir James Brooke in, ii. 52; new
edition of, ii. 209, 379
"Malayan Papilionidse, The," by A. R.
Wallace, and read before the Linnean
Society, i. 400
Malta, A. R. Wallace stays at, i. 332,
384
Malthus, his "Principles of Population," its influence on A. R. Wallace,
i. 232, 240, 361
Malton, Yorkshire, ii. 65, 292
Malvern Wells, Darwin at, ii. 2
Man, dispersal of races of, i. 42I, 422
"Man's Place in the Universe," by
A. R. Wallace, how it came to be
written, ii. 232, 233, 38I, 399
Manchester Guardian, The, A. R.
Wallace writes on Transvaal War

INDEX                     439

Marshall, Mrs., medium, ii. 277 Meta river, i. 320

Marshall Pass, Rocky Mountains, ii. "Method of Organic Evolution," by

178 A. R. Wallace, in The Fortnightly

Marshman, Mr., seance with, ii. 296 Review, ii. 212, 213

Martigny, i. 325, 413          Mexiana, Island of, i. 272; the birds

Martin, builder, i. I4; John Wallace of, i. 274

apprenticed to, i. 14Miall, i. 432

Mascarene Islands, the plants of, Mice, distribution of, i. 420

studied by Mr. J. C. Baker, ii. Michigan Agricultural College, ii. 171

100 A. R. Wallace lectures at, ii. I85

Massey, Gerald, A. R. Wallace on, ii. Mill, John Stuart, quoted, i. I76;

261, 262; as socialist, ii. 272 forms the Land Tenure Reform

" Materialized Apparitions," by E. A. Association, ii. 235; A. R. Wallace

Brackett, ii. 337            dining with, ii. 236; his letter to

" Mathematics and Evolution," by Mr. A. R. Wallace, ii. 238; reference

Iles, ii. I89          to, ii. 254; his attitude towards

Matthew, Mr. Patrick, Samuel Butler's spiritualism, ii. 283

exposition of the doctrines of, ii. 83- Miller, Mr. Robert, conference called

85 by, to discuss "How to cause

Matthews, Mr. William, Alpine Wealth to be more equally Disclimber, i. 413     tributed," ii. 249-255

Matthews, Mr., watchmaker at Leigh- Miller, Mr., vice-consul at Para,

ton Buzzard, i. 131; A. R. Wallace A. R. Wallace stays with, i. 268;

learns watchmaking with, i. 135, kindness to Herbert, i. 282; death

136; goes to a London business, i. of, i. 282

136, 138                  Milton's advocacy of scientific educaMauritius, the plants of, studied by tion, i. 430

Mr. J. C. Baker, ii. Ioo; absence of Milton's " Paradise Lost," read by A.

mammals in, i. 421             R. Wallace, i. 75

Maw, Mr., his review of "Origin of "Mimicry, and other Protective ReSpecies," in the Zoologist, ii. 2 semblances among Animals," by A.

McGee, Mr., ii. 118; conversation on R. Wallace, in The Westminster

Niagara, ii. 128             Review, i. 407; ii. 3

Mears, William, epitaph on, quoted, "Mimicry in Animals," Bates on, ii. 7;

i. 7 A. R. Wallace's lectures on, ii. Io6,

Mechanics' Institute at Neath, designed 126, 148

by J. and A. R. Wallace, i. 245; Minot, Mr., at the Naturalists' Club

letter from A. R. Wallace to, i. 269- dinner, ii. 115

275 Miocene period, i. 419

Mechanics' Magazine, i. 134         "Miracles and Modern Spiritualism,"

Meiringen, A. R. Wallace stays at, ii. by A. R. Wallace, ii. 98, 21I; new

214 edition of, ii. 213, 276, 381

Mellte river described, i. 250 Mirlees, Mr. and Mrs., Mr. and Mrs.

Menado, i. 367, 376, 382            Wallace entertained by, ii. 49

Menlo Park, residence of Senator Mischief, the boat in which A. R.

Stanford, ii. I65         Wallace sailed to Brazil, i. 267

Meriden, A. R. Wallace lectures at, ii. Missouri river, ii. I47, 185

112 Mitten, Mr. William, of Hurstpierpoint,

"Merrie England," by Robert Blatch- i. 411; goes botanizing, tour in

ford, ii. 268             Switzerland with A. R. Wallace, ii.

Mesman, Mr., i. 357                 213, 214; excursions to Wales with

440
INDEX
A. R. Wallace described, ii. 401-404;
excursion to the Highlands with A.
R. Wallace, ii. 405; visit to Spa,
ii. 405
Mitten, Mrs., anecdote of, ii. 404
Mitten, Miss, marriage of A. R.
Wallace to, i. 412
Mivart St. George, Professor, his attitude towards Darwin, ii. Io, I, 34;
A. R. Wallace's reminiscences of,
ii. 43-45; on " Utility," ii. 215; his
interest in spiritualism, ii. 300, 301;
his letter on the cures effected at
Lourdes, ii. 303-305, 310
Moel Tryfan beds, ice action on, i. 429
Moluccas, Dutch Settlement, i. 326,
340; birds of, i. 395, 399
Money, Mr., on Java, i. 382
Mongredien, Mr. Augustus, A. R.
Wallace's connection with, ii. 60, 61
Monk, Mr., medium, manifestations
described, ii. 330, 331
Monkeys of Brazil, described, i. 273; of
the Moluccas, i. 381, 399
Mont Blanc, view of, i. 325
Montanvert, i. 325
Monte Alegre, visit to, i. 278
Montpelier Springs, Fanny Wallace
goes to, i. 223
Montreal, Samuel Butler's visit to, ii.
86; A. R. Wallace visits, ii. I89
"More Letters," referred to by A. R.
Wallace, ii. 2, 13, 21
Morgan, Professor Lloyd, i. 408; A.
R. Wallace reviews "Animal Life
and Intelligence " by, ii. 21o;
" Habit and Instinct" by, ii. 220
Morgan, Professor de, ii. 277; convinced
by Mrs. Haydon, ii. 283; his letter
to A. R. Wallace, ii. 284; quoted, ii.
364
Morgan's Walk described, i. 39-41
Morley, Right IHonourable John, Grant
Allen's proposal to, ii. 263; asks
A. R. Wallace to write article on
Spiritualism, ii. 295
Mornzing Adveriser, The, account of
sdance at Cox's Hotel, ii. 287, 290
2Morning Leader, The, A. R. Wallace
writes " Appreciation of the Past
Century " for, ii. 221
Morris, Professor J., is assistant examiner in Physical Geography, ii.
406
Morris, Sir Lewis, as socialist, ii. 272
Morris, William, "News from Nowhere" by, ii. 267
Morrison-Davidson as socialist, ii. 272
Morse, Professor Edward, biologist, ii.
o09; A. R. Wallace visits, ii. I Io
Morton, Mr. Albert, arranges for lecture
on Spiritualism, ii. I6o
Morty Island, i. 394
Moseley, Professor, of the Challenger
expedition, i. 357
Moses, Mr. Stainton, his interest in
spiritualism, ii. 330
Moths, ii. 4
Mount-Temple, Lord, writes to A. R.
Wallace, ii. o02
"Mountains of California," by John

INDEX
441
N
Nancy, remarkable cures at, ii. 307
Naples, Professor Mivart at, ii. 300
"Narrative of Search after Birds of
Paradise," by A. R. Wallace, i. 387 -394
" Narrative of Travels on the Amazon
and Rio Negro, A," by A. R.
Wallace, i. 268
Nation, The, A. R. Wallace reviews
"The Origin of the Fittest" in,
ii. 132, 133
National Academy of Science, meetings
of, at Boston, ii. IIo
National Anti-Vaccination League, ii.
353
National Deaf-Mute College, Washington, described, ii. I30-133
National Museum of Washington, ii.
II8, II9
"Natural History," Rev. J. G. Wood's,
quoted, i. 22
Natural Science, A. R. Wallace writes
for, ii. 21, 212
Natural Selection, A. R. Wallace on,
i. 400; differences of opinion with
Darwin on, ii. I6; controversy
between Lord Salisbury and Herbert
Spencer on, ii. 32
"Natural Selection and Tropical
Nature," by A. R. Wallace, i. 355,
363; coloration of butterflies described in, i. 402, 407, 414; coloration of caterpillars, ii. 6; estimate of
Darwin in, ii. I6; W. Wilson on,
ii. 65; Dr. Purland's letter on reading, ii. 77; new edition of, ii. 2o0,
383, 384, 385, 386
"Naturalist on the Amazon," by II.
W. Bates, i. 415
"Naturalist in La Plata," by Mr.
Hudson, ii. 71, I58; reviewed by A.
R. Wallace, ii. 210
Nature, "The Theory of Natural
Selection " by A. W,. Bennett printed
in, ii. 7, 13 and note; Huxley's
obituary notice of Darwin in, ii. I6;
account of Dr. Maklay's exploration
published in, ii. 36; obituary notice
of Mivart in, ii. 45; first founded,
I
ii. 54; reviews by A. R. Wallace in,
ii. 83; Huxley quoted, ii. 103; A.
R. Wallace writes for, ii. 209; reviews, " Animal Life and Intelligence" in, ii. 2I0; reviews, "The
Naturalist in La Plata" in, ii. 210;
reviews and letter on " Cause of the
Ice Age," ii. 215; controversy on
"A Speculation regarding the
Senses," ii. 309; discussion on
" homing" instinct of dogs, ii. 391,
392
"Nature's Method in the Evolution of
Life," reviewed by A. R. Wallace,
ii. 212
Neale, Miss Florence, of Penarth, i.
167, 246
Neath, the Wallaces live at, i. 14, 15;
W. and A. R. Wallace surveying at,
i. I78, 86; death of William at,
i. 239; residence at, i, 241; Llantwit
Cottage at, i. 244
Neath river, i. 167
Neath, Vale of, A. R. Wallace and

442
INDEX
"News from Nowhere," by William
Morris, ii. 267
Newton, Dr., ii. 308
Newton, Professor Alfred, "Dictionary
of Birds" by, ii. 26, 34; A. R.
Wallace the guest of, at Cambridge,
ii. 45; urges A. R. Wallace to write
a book on the geographical distribution of animals, ii. 94, 2II
Newtown, in Montgomeryshire, birthplace of Robert Owen, i. 91, I48
New York, A. R. Wallace visits, ii.
107, o08, 113
New York Journal, The, A. R. Wallace
writes on " Social Evolution" for,
ii. 220
New Zealand, animals of, i. 421; the
plants of, studied by Sir J. Hooker,
ii. I00
Niagara, ii. 125; A. R. Wallace stays
at, ii. I27
Nichol, Miss, medium, ii. 278; s/ances
described, ii. 279, 292, 293
Nichols, Dr., his interest in spiritualism,
ii. 337, 339
Nicholson, Professor J. Shield, on
agrarian distress in the Highlands,
ii. 254
Nineteenth Century, The, " A Suggestion to Sabbath-Keepers," by A. R.
Wallace, in, ii. 212; Romanes'
article on "Physiological Selection"
in, ii. 316, 317, 394
Nolloth, Captain, of the Frolic, i. 329 -331
Nordhoff, Mr., A. R. Wallace dines
with, ii. 19
Norfolk, Duke of, ii. 44
North, Miss, reference to her flower
painting, ii. 147, I6I; gives A. R.
Wallace a plant of blue Puya, ii. 205
North Platte river, ii. I84
"Notre Dame de Lourdes," by M.
Henri Lasserre, ii. 305-307
Nulty, Bishop, of Meath, a supporter
of land nationalization, ii. 256
Nutwood Cottage, the residence of A.
R. Wallace at Godalming, ii. 103
0
Oastler, Mr. Robert, on the condition
of New Lanark, i. loI
"Oceanic Islands," A. R. Wallace
lectures on, ii. Io6, 113, I25, I48
Ogden, ii. I56, 157, I76
Ogilvie, Professor, his "Essay of the
Right of Property in Land," ii.
241
Ohio, ii. 139
Old Bedford canal, Norfolk, experiments to prove convexity of the earth
at, ii. 365
"Old Glaciers of Switzerland and
North Wales, The," by Sir Andrew
Ramsay, i. 412
Old Orchard, residence of A. R.
Wallace, ii. 227
Old red sandstone, i. I64, 170, 249
Olerich, Henry, "Cityless and Countryless World," by, ii. 268
Omaha, ii. 185
" On the Alcoholic Compound termed
Punch," ii. 47, 48
" On the Evils, Impolicy, and Anomaly
of Individuals being Landlords and

INDEX
443
"Origin of Species," Darwin's, i. 255,
358, 372; reviews of, ii. 2; reference
to, ii. 84
Orinoko, A. R. Wallace's expedition
to, i. 283, 284; Count Stradelli's
expedition up, i. 318
Osgood, Mr. Samuel, described, i. I86 -189
"Our Destiny," by Gronlund, ii. 267
Ouse, i. 121, 132
Ouzel, i. I32
Owen, Miss, gives plants to A. R.
Wallace for his Parkstone garden,
ii. 2o6
Owen, Mr., of San Francisco, ii. 346,
348
Owen, Professor Richard, his review of
"Origin of Species" in The Edinburgh Review, ii. 2; controversy with
Huxley, ii. 46; his visits to Augustus
Mongredien, ii. 6I
Owen, Robert, his influence on A. R.
Wallace, i. 87; his principles, i. 83;
sketch of his life and work, i. 91-I05,
128; reference to, ii. 237, 270
Owen, Robert Dale, his tract on " Consistency," i. 88; "The Debatable
Land between this World and the
Next," by, ii. 294
"Owen, Robert, and his Social Philosophy," by W. L. Sargant, i. 95
Oxford University confers degree of
D.C.L. on A. R. Wallace, ii. 201
P
Paine's, Thomas, "Age of Reason,'
i. 87
Palembang, i. 376, 379
Pall Mall Gazette, The, accusations
against mediums in, ii. 282, 291
"Palms of the Amazon and Rio Negro,"
by A. R. Wallace, i. 321
Pangenesis, differences of opinion
between Darwin and A. R. Wallace
on, 11, 21
Pangerango mountain, i. 376
Panshanger, fine oak in the park of,
i. 35
Para, Herbert Wallace died at, i. I5;
A. R. Wallace and H. W. Bates make
voyages to, i. 264; the city and
environments described, i. 268-275
"Paradise Lost," i. 75; Sunday readings of, i. 227
Paris, Fanny, John, and Alfred Wallace
visit, i. 256; A. R. Wallace and
George Silk stay at, i. 325
Parkstone, A. R. Wallace goes to live
at, ii. 203; the garden at, ii. 204;
orchid growing at, ii. 206, 207;
A. R. Wallace leaves, ii. 227
Parrots, A. R. Wallace on, i. 397-400
Peabody Museum of Archaeology, ii.
IIO
Pears, Messrs., offer prize for essay on
" Depression of Trade," ii. 104
Pearson, Professor Karl, as socialist,
ii. 272
Pengelly, William, geniality of, ii. 49;
his personal experience of seeing a
double, ii. 332-334
Pen-y-gwryd, Wales, ii. 403
"Peregrine Pickle," read by A. R.
Wallace, i. 75

444
INDEX
"Pickwick Papers," read by A. R.
Wallace, i. 75
Pierce, " Vital Statistics" by, ii. 351
Pieridae, A. R. Wallace on, i. 403
Pigeons, A. R. Wallace on, i. 397 -400
Pigs, distribution of, i. 420
"Pilgrim's Progress, The," A. R. Wallace's pleasure in reading, i. 74,
227
Pistill Rhaiadwr, waterfall, described,
ii. 403
Plants, distribution of, ii. 98-101
Pliocene period, i. 419
"Plurality of Words," by Whewell, ii.
288
Plynlymmon, i. I45
Political Prisoners' Aid Society, Miss
Helen Taylor, president of, ii. 256
Pont-nedd-Fychan, South Wales, i.
179, 249, 251; ii. 404
Pont-y-glyn, A. R. Wallace and Mr.
Mitten's walk to, ii. 401
Poole, ii. 227
Pope Clement IV., epitaph on, quoted
i. 8, 9
Pope's " Iliad," read by A. R. Wallace,
i. 75
Popenhoe, Professor, botanist, ii. 152,
I53
Port Patrick, Ireland, ii. 200
Portman, Lord, Mr. Wilson, agent to,
i. 31
Portrush, Ireland, ii. 200
Porth-yr-Ogof, i. 250
Poughkeepsie, A. R. Wallace visits, ii.
112, 113
Poulton, Professor E. B., ii. 34; A. R.
Wallace stays with, ii. 202
Powell, Major, A. R. Wallace's acquaintance with, ii. II8, II9; invites
A. R. Wallace to lecture, ii. 129
Praed, W. Mackworth, Herbert Wallace's imitation of, i. 283, 289
Prescott, William H., his "History of
the Conquests of Mexico and Peru,"
i. 232
Presteign, i. 144
"Present Evolution of Man," by Dr.
G. Archdall Reid, ii. 215
Price, Mr., i. 186, I88, 190
"Primary Factors of Evolution," by
Cope, ii. 215
"Principles of Biology," by Herbert
Spencer, ii. 26
"Principles of Geology," by Sir Charles
Lyell, i. I33, I62; A. R. Wallace
on, i. 406; new edition of, i. 420
"Principles of Population," by Malthus, i. 232, 36I
"Principles of Sociology," by Herbert
Spencer, ii. 27
Pritchard's "c Physical History of Man"
commented on, i. 255; ii. I28
"Problem of Instinct, The," article by
A. R. Wallace, ii. 220
" Problem of Utility, The," read by
A. R. Wallace to the Linnean
Society, ii. 215
Proctor, Richard, editor of Knowledge,
ii. 105
"Progress and Poverty," by Henry
George, Darwin on, ii. I4; Herbert

INDEX

445

(

(

I

I

2uincy House, Boston, A. R. Wallace Reichenbach, Baron, Professor Tynstays at, ii. Io8  dall's comments on, ii. 280

2uarterly Journal of Science, The, Reid, Dr. G. Archdall, " Present

A. R. Wallace's " Ice-marks in North Evolution of Man," ii. 215

Wales" printed in, i. 412; A. R. Reid, Mayne, Soda springs mentioned

Wallace's article on "Man" in, i. by, ii. I79

427; Mr. Mivart's criticism of Dar- Rendall, Mr. E. A., letters written by,

win in, ii. 0o                i. I I

Quarterly Review, The, "Geological Reno, ii. 175

Climates and the Origin of Species," "Representative House of Lords, A,"

published in, i. 406                  by A. R. Wallace in The Contem.

porary Review, ii. 212

Rhaidr-Gwy (Rhayader), W. and A. R.

Wallace surveying at, i. 145, I48

Rabelais, i. 227              Rhone Glacier, ii. 213

' Races of Man and Natural Selection," Richard, Mr. John, "How it can be

Darwin's opinion of, i. 418           done," by, ii. 272

Radnorshire, i. 140                   Rievaulx Abbey, visit to, ii. 50

Ramage, Dr., cures A. R. Wallace of Riley, Professor, A. R. Wallace stays

consumption, i. 146                   with, ii. 117, II9

Rambler, The, read by A. R. Wal- Rio, Darwin at, ii. 20

lace, i. 75                   Rio Negro, A. R. Wallace's collecting

Ramsay, Sir Andrew, "The Old expeditions up the, i. 28I, 283, 284;

Glaciers of Switzerland and North animal life on the, i. 324

Wales," by, i. 412            Ripon, Lord, his connection with BethRandi, Signor, seances at, ii. 327 nal Green Museum, i. 415; ii. 90

Ranklin, Professor, geniality of. ii. 46 Roaring Meg, origin of name, i. Io8

Ravensburgh Castle, i. 107            Roberts, Miss, portraits of the Greenell

Rawdon Cottage, residence of Wal- family given to, i. 5; mourning ring

laces at Hoddesdon, i. 74             given to A. R. Wallace by, i. 6; her

Rayleigh, Lord, supports Professor gift of ~Iooo to A. R. Wallace, ii.

Barrett's paper on thought-reading, 378

ii. 49                    Roberts, Mr. John, i. 5

Reader, The, Herbert Spencer, editor Robertson, William, his " History of

of, ii. 24; "How to Civilize Charles V.," and Historyof America,"

Savages," by A. R. Wallace in, ii. i. 232

52 Robinson, E. W., illustrations by, i.

Reclus, M. Elisee, visits A. R. Wal- 403, 405

lace at Parkstone, ii. 207; discussion Robinson, in Alabama, Fanny Wallace

on " How to Model the Earth," ii. has a school at, i. 223

214 Rocky Mountains, ii. 175, 178, 184

"Red Lions," A. R. Wallace admitted "Roderick Random," by Smollet, read

to the fraternity of, ii. 48          by A. R. Wallace, i. 75

Rees, David, W. and A. R. Wallace Rogues, Dr., of Toulouse, ii. 303, 304

lodge with, i. 179, I93, 194; A. R. Rolleston, Professor George, A. R.

Wallace revisits, i. 253              Wallace's letter on Christianity to,

Reeve, Mr. Lovel, " Travels on the ii, 52

Amazon and Rio Negro," published Romanes, Professor G. J., his correby, i. 321          spondence with Darwin on SpiritualRegan, Mr. C. Tate, of the British ism, ii. 125; on Utility, ii. 215;

Museum, i. 286                        beginning of acquaintance with A. R.

446
INDEX
Wallace, ii. 309, 3I0; his letters to
A. R. Wallace on Spiritualism, ii.
311-314; his correspondence with
Darwin on Spiritualism, ii. 315; his
difference with A. R. Wallace and
attack upon him, ii. 3 6, 317; correspondence thereon, ii. 317-326
"Rookwood," by Harrison Ainsworth,
i. 75
Ross, Mrs., medium, manifestations
described, ii. 338, 339; attempt to
seize spirit forms at, ii. 340
Royal Geographical Society, A. R.
Wallace read a paper on the Uaupes
before, i. 316; Sir Roderick Murchison, president of the, i. 326, 371,
380; H. W. Bates becomes assistant
secretary of the, i. 415; Hampden's
tract distributed at exhibition of, ii.
375
Royal Society, The, A. R. Wallace receives royal-medal of, ii. 36; Huxley,
president of, ii. 374
"Rudder Grange," by F. R. Stockton,
read by A. R. Wallace, ii. 135
Rumball, Mr. James Quilter his delineation of the character of A. R.
Wallace, i. 260
Ruskin, John, on equality of opportunity, i. 177
Russell, Richard, mourning ring in
memory of, i. 6
S
Sacramento, California, ii. 171
Sadong river, collecting expedition on
the, i. 341
Salem, A. R. Wallace visits Professor
Morse at, ii. Io
Salida, ii. I78
Salina, A. R. Wallace stays at, ii. I54,
155
Salisbury, Dr., his treatment and cure
of asthma, ii. 229, 230, 234
Salisbury, Lord, Herbert Spencer's controversy on natural selection with, ii.
32
Salt, II. S., as socialist, ii. 272
Salt Lake City described, ii. I56, 157,
176
San Carlos, incident at, ii. 66
Santa Cruz, John and A. R. Wallace
go to, ii. I69, 170
Sanderson, Mark, epitaph on, quoted
i. 8
' Sandford and Merton," i. 20; A. R.
Wallace's childish recollections of, i.
20, 22
Sandwich Islands, ii. Ioo
San Francisco, John Wallace settles in,
i. 263; ii. I55; seances at, described,
ii. 346-348
San Jeronymo, i. 284
Santarem, Brazil, i. 276; vegetation
of, i. 279; Herbert's verses on, i.
279-281.
Sarawak, Sir James Brooke, Rajah of,
i. 326; A. R. Wallace's expedition
to, i. 341, 347, 382; Sir James
Brooke's nephew appointed Rajah
of, ii. 51, 52
Sargasso Sea described, i. 268
Sargant, W. L., his book on " Robert
Owen and his Social Philosophy,"
i. 95

INDEX
447
"Security of the Home," address delivered by A. R. Wallace to the
Land Nationalization Society, ii. 264,
265
Seeley, Professor H. G., assistant examiner in Physical Geography, ii.
406
Seitz, Mr., ii. I54
Seneca lake, New York, ii. 125
Senhor Lima, described, i. 311
Senni, surveying at, i. I65, I66
Serpa, Herbert Wallace goes to, i. 281
Severn, crossing the, in ferry boat, i.
30, I32
Sexual Selection through Female
Choice, differences of opinion between
Darwin and A. R. Wallace on, ii. 17
Sheffield, A. R. Wallace, lectures at,
ii. 209
Shenandoah Valley, ii. 136
Shorter, Mr. Thomas, editor of The
Spiritual Magazine, ii. 286
Sidgwick, Professor, helps to found
Psychical Research Society, ii. 49; his
investigation of spiritualism, ii. 334,
337
Sierra Guadarama, plants from, ii. 68
Sierra Nevada, i. 332; ii. i58; trees of,
ii. I6I, 170
Silk, George, beginning of his friendship with A. R. Wallace, i. 32, 73;
quotation from A. R. Wallace's letter
to, i. I42; extract from A. R.
Wallace's letter to, i. 268; his tour
in Switzerland with A. R. Wallace,
i. 325; A. R. Wallace's letter describing Alexandria to, i. 332; letter
from A. R. Wallace, i. 365; letter
from A. R. Wallace, i. 371; introduces A. R. Wallace on his return
home to his friends, i. 409; ii. 51
Silsoe, i. I07, 114; W. and A. R.
Wallace surveying at, i. 129
Simcox, Miss Edith, on rents, i. 85
Sims, Mr. Thomas, of Neath, i. 15, 224;
marriage to Fanny Wallace, i. 263;
removal to London, i. 313; letter
from A. R. Wallace to, i. 367; A. R.
Wallace besides with, i. 385; A. R.
Wallace's exhibition at studio of,
i, 404
Simon, Sir John, on Vaccination, ii.
352
Singapore, A. R. Wallace's passage to,
i. 329, 332, 336; life at, described, i.
337; vegetation and animal life of, i.
338, 348
Sioux City, ii. 146; A. R. Wallace
lectures at, ii. 147; visit to Mr.
Talbot's zoological farm, ii. I48;
pork-curing at, ii. I49, 150
Skinner, Mr. J. R., A. R. Wallace's
acquaintance with, ii. 141, I42
Sleigh, Frances, i. 2
Smith, Mr., of Veterinary College,
Toronto, ii. 126
Smith, Professor Goldwin, A. R.
Wallace dines with, ii. 127
Smith, Mr. J. G., his collection of
butterflies from Pernambuco, i. 267
Smith, John, of Malton, present at
seance, ii. 292
Smithsonian Institute at Washington,

448
INDEX
"South Wales Farmer, The," article
by A. R. Wallace, i. 207-222
Spa, Belgium, A. R. Wallace and Mr.
Mitten stay at, ii. 405
Spalding, Mr., ii. 392
"Specifications for Practical Architecture," Bartholomew's, i. I89
Spectator, The, read by A. R. Wallace,
i. 75
Spence, Thomas, his lecture on land
nationalization, treatment he received,
ii. 240, 241
Spencer, Herbert, philosophy of, i.
104; on I" equality of opportunity,"
i. I75, I77, 422; A. R. Wallace's reminiscences of, ii. 23; discussion on
flight of birds, ii. 25; letter to Wallace on Land Nationalization Society,
ii. 27; letter to A. R. Wallace on
"Progress and Poverty," ii. 29; on
"Bad Times," ii. 31; controversy
with Lord Salisbury on natural
selection, ii. 32; in society, ii. 33;
on land nationalization, ii. 235, 238,
240, 266; reference to his "Justice,"
ii. 272; on Vaccination, ii. 351.
Spenser's "Faerie Queene," read by
A. R. Wallace, i. 75
Spiritual Magazine, The, founded by
William Howitt, ii. 286, 291
Spiritualism, A. R. Wallace, lectures
on, ii. I6o; discussed, ii. 275-350
Spithead, in ship of war at, i. 329
Spriggs, Mr., ii. 308
Spruce, Dr. Richard, his meeting with
A. R. Wallace in Brazil, i. 276; on
new species at Santarem, i. 279;
Herbert Wallace's letters to, i. 289;
letter from A. R. Wallace describing
his voyage home, i. 302-309, 311;
his return home and residence at
Hurstpierpoint, i. 41 I; A. R. Wallace
visits, ii. 50; letter from W. Wilson
to, ii. 262; letter to A. R. Wallace,
ii. 64; his letter on odours of leaves
quoted, ii. 65; letter on coloration
of edible fruits, quoted, ii. 71-73
St. Albans, Duke of, property of, at
Hanworth, i. 3
St. Andrews, geological excursion to,
ii. 286
St. Andrew's churchyard, Hertford,
family tomb of William Greenell in,
i. 4; Thomas Vere Wallace buried
in, i. 223
St. Andrew's Street, Hertford, home
of the Wallaces in, i. 32, 47, 63, 73
Stanfield, Senator and Mrs., their
interest in spiritualism, ii. 341
Stanford's " Compendium of Geography
and Travel," ii. 1xo, 210, 390
Stanford, Senator and Mrs., ii. I 9;
sketch of, ii. I65, I66; university
founded by, I67, I68
Stanner Rocks, i, 140
Stanzerhorn, A. R. Wallace ascends
the, ii. 213
Statistical Society, Sir Robert Giffen's
Presidential Address to, i. 8I, 85
St. Bernard hospice on pass, i. 413,
414

INDEX
449
visits his brother John at, ii. 159, I6o,
I65, 169; fourth of July celebrations
at, ii. 170
Stone, Mr. E. H., of Sioux City, ii. 147
Stonehenge, A. R. Wallace on the
importance of preserving, ii. 238
"Story of a Great Delusion," by William White, ii. 354
Stowe, Harriet Beecher, ii. 121
Stradelli, Count Ermanno, South
American explorations of, i. 317;
his map of the Uaupe's compared
with A. R. Wallace's, i. 318-320
Strange, Lieut.-Colonel, on Government aid to science, ii. 54
Strasburg, i. 326
Strauss, "Life of Jesus " by, i. 227
St. Sever, ii. 68
"Substitute for Militarism, A," by'A.
R. Wallace, quoted, ii. 223-226
" Studies Scientific and Social," by A.
R. Wallace, i. 158; True Individualism in, i. I75; article on
Epping Forest reprinted in, i. 417,
426; ii. 24, I I I; reference to, ii.
163, 220; article on "Human Selection" in, ii. 267
Suez, journey to, described, i. 335;
home by, i. 384
"Suggestion to Sabbath-Keepers, A,"
by A. R. Wallace in The Contemporary Review, ii. 212
Sula, birds of, i. 395
Sumatra, i. 376, 381
Superior, Lake, Lyell on origin of, i.
428
Sutro, Mr., his breakfast to A. R.
Wallace, ii. 158
Swallow Falls, North Wales, ii. 404
Swansea, i. 244, 248
Swainson, i. 354
Swinton, Mr. A. C., his connection
with Land Nationalization Society,
ii. 240; A. R. Wallace's acquaintance with, ii. 255
Switzerland, A. R. Wallace's tour in,
with George Silk, i. 325; Mr. and
Mrs. A. R. Wallace's tour in, i.
412-414; A. R. Wallace and Mr.
Mitten go botanizing tour in, ii. 213,
214
VOL. II.
Sylvester, Professor, anecdotes of, ii.
114
"Synthetic Philosophy," by Herbert
Spencer, ii. 33
"Systematic Morality," by William
Jevons, i. 246
T
Taff river, i. 252
Tahoe, Lake, Miss Bird's account of, ii.
174
Talbot, Mr., of Margam Abbey, i. I90
Talbot, Dr. D. H., A. R. Wallace
stays with, ii. 147; his zoological
farm, ii. 148; takes A. R. Wallace
over pork-curing establishment, ii.
149
Tasmania, plants of, studied by Sir. J.
Hooker, ii. Ioo
Taylor, Miss Helen, step-daughter of
John Stuart Mill, ii. 236; President
of Political Prisoners' Aid Society, ii.
256; a supporter of land nationalization, ii. 256

450
INDEX
Three Sisters Islands, Niagara, ii. 127
Timor, i. 357, 367, 369; the birds of,
i. 396, 420
Tinker of Turvey, the, origin of the
name, i. 123, 124
Tocantins river, Brazil, i. 265, 271
Toddington, abundance of springs at, i.
0o8
Tollemache, Lord, his experience in
small holdings, i. 154; ii. 254
Tolstoi, Count, ii. 19
"Tom Jones," Fielding's, read by A.
R. Wallace, i. 75
Tonquin, Catholic missions in, i. 349
Toronto, A. R. Wallace lectures at, ii.
125, I26
Toronto, Bishop of, ii. 126
Torquay, A. R. Wallace visits, ii. 49
Trallong, W. and A. R. Wallace surveying at, i. i6I, 165
Transactions of the Entomological
Society, "The Malayan Papilionidae," published in, i. 400; paper on
" Pieridae," published in, i. 403
Transcript, The, quoted, ii. o09
Transvaal War, A. R. Wallace wrote
for Manchester Guardian on, ii. 220
"Travels," Huc's, read by A. R. Wallace, i. 349
"Travels on the Amazon and Rio
Negro," by A. R. Wallace, i. 316,
32I, 379, 415
"Treatise of Ammunition," ii. 395
Trees of California described, ii. i6I,
I63, I64, I69
"Trees and Shrubs for English Gardens," by Augustus Mongredien, ii.
60
Trelease, Dr., of St. Louis, ii. 146
Tring, railway to, in I838, i. II6
" Tristram Shandy," in New Guinea,
i. 367
Trollope, Mrs., present at sance, ii.
287
Trollope, Mr. T. Adolphus, present at
slance, ii. 289
"( Tropical Nature," by A. R. Wallace,
ii. 98
Truckee, A. R. Wallace stays at, ii.
I73, I74, I75
Turner, Captain, of the Helen, which
was burnt on its way home, i. 303;
behaviour of, i. 309, 310
Turvey Abbey, i. 122, 123
"Turvey and the Mordaunts," by G.
F. W. Munby, i. I23
Turvey, William and A. R. Wallace
land surveying at, i. Ii8; Turvey
Abbey, i. 122; the inn at, i. I23,
I26
Tylor, Professor E. B., urges A. R.
Wallace to investigate spiritualism,
ii. 282; A. R. Wallace's criticism of
" Anthropology" by, ii. 388
Tyndall, Professor, i. 435; anecdote
of, ii. 33, 34; his interest in Dr.
Purland, ii. 76: his attitude towards
spiritualism, ii. 278-280, 282, 285;
A. R. Wallace's letter to, ii. 291-293,
350
U
Uaupes, A. R. Wallace's expedition up

INDEX
451
Vassar College, America, A. R. Wallace lectures at, ii. 12, I 13
Venezuela, A. R. Wallace visits, i. 285
Verdi, description of railway journey
to, ii. 175
Vergez, Dr., of Bareges, ii. 304
"Vestiges of the Natural History of
Creation," correspondence on, i. 254,
355, 362
"Vicar of Wakefield, The," read by
A. R. Wallace, i. 74
Villeneuve, i. 414
"Vision of Judgment," William Wallace's opinion of, i. II3
"Vital Statistics," by Pierce, ii. 351
Volckman, Mr. W., ii. 277
Voorst, Mr. Van, " Palms of the
Amazon and Rio Negro," published
by, i. 321
"Voyage up the Amazon, A," by
W. H. Edwards, i. 264
W
Waghorn, Lieut., route from Alexandria
to Suez made by, i. 335
Waigiou Island, i. 370, 371, 372
Walker, General Francis, A. R. Wallace makes the acquaintance of, ii.
o09, I6
WALLACE, ALFRED RUSSEL: CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH, i. I-78 -relatives and ancestors of, i. 1-6;
account of the life of his father, i.
6-I4; account of lives of his brothers
and sisters, i. I4-I6; his description
of his father's appearance and character, i. 16-19; earliest recollections of Usk, i. 20; fishing for
lampreys, i. 22; memories of Usk
Castle, i. 23; psychological peculiarity of, i. 24; childish dream of, i.
27; removal of the family to Hertford and recollections of the journey,
i. 30; first school, i. 3I; beginning
of friendship with George Silk, i. 32;
description of Hertford and surroundings, i. 33-45; attends Grammar
School, i. 46; first serious illness, i.
46; visit to Norfolk, i. 47; account of
life at school, i. 48-58; feelings of
shame and misery at having to help
teach, i. 58-62; home life described,
i. 63; occupations, 64-69; boarded
with Miss Davies, i. 69; family
affairs, i. 72; influences, i. 74; daily
routine, i. 76; religious training, i. 77
LONDON, i. 79-105 -goes to his brother John in London,
i. 79; on the condition of working
men, i. 8o-86; evening occupations,
86; influence of Robert Owen on,
87; religious views of, i. 88; political
views of, i. 89; on the principles of
Robert Owen, i. 89-9; sketch of
the life and work of Robert Owen, i.
91-105
SURVEYING, i. IO6-x98 -goes to his brother William in
Barton, and begins education as
land surveyor, i. Io6; interest in
geology, i. Io8; interest in natural
history, i. 11 I; description of Barton
and its inhabitants, i. III-I15; goes
to Hoddesdon, i. II6; life at Turvey
described, i. 118-128; life and work
at Silsoe, i. 129, 130; survey of
Soulbury, i. 13I; goes to Leighton
Buzzard, i. 134; learns watchmaking
with Mr. Matthews, i. 135-139;
journey to Kington, i. 140; returns
to land surveying and enters the office

452
INDEX
surveying in Glamorganshire, i. 178;
lodging at David Rees described, i.
179; life at Crynant, i. 80o; account
of Mr. Worthington, i. I83-I86; life
at Bryn-coch, i. 183; interest in
architecture, i. 189; interest in
astronomy, i. I9I; study of botany,
i. 192-197; first literary efforts,
botany, i. 199; on "' The Advantages
of Varied Knowledge," i. 201-205;
article on "The South Wales
Farmer," i. 207-222; death of his
father, i. 223; on his own character,
i. 224; on his religious views, i. 226 -228; seeks position as master, i.
229; obtains post at the Collegiate
School at Leicester, i. 230; interest
and experiments in mesmerism, i.
232-236; first meeting with Henry
Walter Bates, i. 237; interest in
entomology, i. 237; prologue written
by, i. 238; death of his brother
William, i. 239; leaves school to
take up his brother's business at
Neath, i. 240
AT NEATH, i. 241-263 -settling his brother's affairs, i. 241;
railway surveying, i. 242; John joins
him in business, i. 244; lectures at
the Mechanics' Institute, i. 246; excursions round Neath described, i.
247-253; extracts from correspondence with H. W. Bates, i. 254; visits
Paris, 256; character delineation by
phrenology, i. 257-262
THE JOURNEY TO THE AMAZON, i.
264-288 -preparations for expedition to the
Amazon, i. 264; the voyage out, i.
267; the city of Para and its environments described, i. 268-275; is
joined by his brother Herbert, and
goes collecting expedition up the
river Amazon, i. 275; poems by
Herbert, i. 276; stay at Santarem,
i. 278; finding of new species, i.
279; Herbert's verses to Santarem,
i. 280; expedition to the Upper Rio
Negro, i. 281; death of Herbert at
Para, i. 282; expeditions up the Rio
Negro and Uaupes, i. 283; difficulties
encountered, i. 284; specimens collected, i. 285; impressions of the
Amazon, i. 286-288; his letter to
Dr. Spruce describing his dangerous
voyage home, i. 302-309; comments
on the voyage, i. 310; Senhor Lima
described, i. 31; arrival in London,
i. 313; writing account of travels, i.
314; the umbrella bird, i. 314; map
of Uaupes, i. 316; account of Count
Stradelli's explorations, i. 317; comparison of maps, i. 318; visitor at
scientific meetings, i. 320; publication of " Palms of the Amazon and
Rio Negro," and "Travels on the
Amazon and Rio Negro," i. 321;
helps Dr. Latham in native models
for Crystal Palace, i. 322; first meeting with Huxley, i. 323; his paper
on monkeys to the Zoological Society,
i. 324; tour in Switzerland with
George Silk, i. 325; plans an expedition to the Malay Archipelago, i.
326; collector's need of good handbook, i. 327; granted a passage on
the brig Frolic for Singapore, i. 329;
after many weeks waiting the Frolic
goes to the Crimea, and A. R.
Wallace returns to London, i. 331;

INDEX
453
goes to Batchian, i. 365; letter to
George Silk, i. 365; letter to Thomas
Sims, i. 367; goes to Menado,
Amboyna, and Ceram, i. 369; voyage
back to Ternate, i. 370; letter to
George Silk, i. 371; letter to Bates,
i. 373; goes to Timor and Cajeli in
Bouru, i. 375; Sourabaya and
Sumatra, i. 376; letter to H. W.
Bates, i. 377; letter to George Silk,
i. 379; journey home, i. 383; back
in London, i. 384; at work on collections, i. 385; "Narrative of Search
after Birds of Paradise," i. 387 -394; at work on various papers
dealing with birds, etc., of the Malay
Archipelago, i. 394; on parrots and
pigeons, i. 397; on butterflies, i. 400;
exhibition of birds and butterflies,
i. 404; at work on "Malay Archipelago," i. 405; on natural selection,
i. 406; presidential address to the
Entomological Society, i. 408; home
life in London, i. 409; goes to Hurstpierpoint, i. 411; marriage to Miss
Mitten, i. 412; excursions in Wales
and Switzerland, i. 413; returns to
Hurstpierpoint, 414; tries for the
assistant secretaryship of the Royal
Geographical Society, i. 415; applies
for directorship of the Bethnal Green
Museum, i. 415; applies for superintendentship of Epping Forest, i. 416;
reminiscences of Sir Charles Lyell,
i. 417; on the rate of change in
insects, i. 418; on the antiquity of
man, i. 419; on distribution, i. 420;
on dispersal of races of man, i. 421;
on pangenesis, i. 422; letter from
Sir Charles Lyell on glacial epoch,
on lake basins, i. 426; on origin of
solar system, i. 427; letter to Sir
Charles Lyell on" Fuel of the Sun,"
i. 429; letter to Sir Charles Lyell on
freedom of thought as essential to
intellectual progress, i. 430; on disestablishment, i. 432; friendship with
Sir Charles Lyell, i. 433.
FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCES, ii. I89 -reminiscences of Darwin, ii. I; correVOL. II.
spondence, ii. 2; on colour of caterpillars, ii. 3; letter to The Field on
" Caterpillars and Birds," ii. 4; discussion on natural selection, ii. 7;
on meaning of origin of species,
ii. 8; Darwin's opinion of "Island
Life," ii. 12; discussion on influence
of glacial epoch, ii. I2; letters from
Darwin, ii. I3, 14, 15; differences of
opinion between Darwin and, ii. I6 -22; first meeting with Herbert
Spencer, ii. 23; discussion on flight
of birds, ii. 25; address on origin
of insects, ii. 26; letter from Herbert
Spencer on Land Nationalization
Society just formed, ii. 27; letter
from H. Spencer on " Progress and
Poverty," ii. 29; Herbert Spencer
on " Bad Times," ii. 31; letters from
H. Spencer on Lord Salisbury, ii. 32;
scientific friends, ii. 33; reminiscences
of Huxley, ii. 34; meets Dr. Miklucho Maklay, ii. 34; misunderstanding with Huxley, ii. 36; on Arthur
J. Bell's works, ii. 37; feeling of
inferiority to Huxley, ii. 39; on
degrees of latitude, ii. 40; reminiscences of Dr. Carpenter, ii. 42;
reminiscences of Mivart, ii. 43-45;
reminiscences of the meetings of the
British Association, ii. 45-50; friendship with Sir James Brooke, ii. 51;

454
INDEX
visitors at Grays, ii. 93; at work on
the "Geographical Distribution of
Animals," ii. 94, 95; summary of
chapters of, ii. 96, 97; sells the
house at Grays and removes to
Dorking, and afterwards to Croydon,
ii. 98; articles for the "Encyclopledia Britannica," ii. 98; at work
on the distribution of plants for
"Island Life," ii. 99-IoI; writes
book on Australia, ii. o11; on " Land
Nationalization," ii. 102; degree of
LL.D. conferred on, by Dublin University, ii. I02; death of Darwin, ii.
102; goes to live at Godalming, ii.
103; writes essay on "Depression of
Trade," and its treatment by the
press, ii. 104; undertakes lecturing
tour in America, ii. 105; list of subjects, ii. Io6
AMERICAN LECTURE TOUR, ii. IO7 -199 -arrival in New York, ii. 107; excursion up the Hudson river, ii. Io8;
goes to Boston, ii. Io8; first lecture,
ii. Io9; acquaintances, ii. 19; occupations in Boston, ii. IIo; lectures
in Williamstown, ii. III; lectures at
Meriden, ii. I12; Vassar College
described, ii. I 3; goes to Baltimore, ii. I I3; anecdotes of Professor
Sylvester, ii. I 14; returns to Boston,
receives hospitality, ii. II5; goes to
Washington, ii. II7; social life at
Washington, ii. II8, II9; on Irish in
America, ii. I20; Mr. Allen, ii. 121;
visit to the Treasury, ii. I23; visit
to House of Representatives and
Naval Observatory, ii. 124; goes to
New York to lecture, ii. I25; lecture
tour in Canada, ii. I25; Toronto, ii.
126; describes Niagara, ii. I27;
returns to Washington and lectures
to Women's Anthropological Society,
ii. 128; lectures on Social Economy,
ii. 129; visit to the National Deaf.
Mute College, ii. 130-132; reviews
Professor Cope's "The Origin of the
Fittest," ii. 132; visits President
Cleveland, ii. I33; comments on
Washington, ii. I34; books read by,
ii. 135; starts for Cincinnati,
stopping first at Luray to visit caves,
ii. 136, I37; stays at Clifton Forge,
ii. 138; describes journey to Coalburg, ii. 138; stays with Mr.
Edwards, ii. 139, I40; arrives at
Cincinnati, ii. 141; excursions, ii.
142; visit to Mr. Dury, ii. 143 -I45; lectures at Cincinnati, ii. 145;
goes to St. Louis, I46; describes
journey to Sioux City, ii. I47; gives
three lectures, ii. 147; drives to Mr.
Talbot's zoological farm, ii. I48;
visits pork-curing establishment, ii.
149; goes to Lawrence, Kansas, ii.
I50; goes to Manhattan, ii. 151;
sees over the college, ii. 152; goes
to Salina, ii. 153; difficulty in procuring a magic lantern, ii. 154; drive to
M. Henry, ii. 154; goes to Denver,
ii. I55; journey to Salt Lake City,
ii. 156; city described, ii. I57; goes
to San Francisco and stays with his
brother John, ii. 158; drive to Redwood Forest, ii. I58; goes to his
brother's house at Stockton, ii. I59;
lectures on "Spiritualism," ii. I6o;
excursion to the Yosemite Valley, ii.
I60-162; describes the gigantic trees

INDEX
455
of America-its land and people, ii.
191-I99; returns to England, ii.
200; curious incident on the drive
home, ii. 200; writes book on
" Darwinism," and gives several
lectures, ii. 201; honorary degree of
D.C.L. of Oxford conferred on, ii.
202; leaves Godalming and removes
to Parkstone, ii. 203; reminiscences
of garden at Godalming, ii. 203; the
garden at Parkstone, ii. 204, 205;
his experience in orchid growing, ii.
206; visit of M. Elisee Reclus,
ii. 207, 208; new edition of " Malay
Archipelago," ii. 209; article on
"Human Selection," ii. 209; new
edition of "Natural Selection and
Tropical Nature, ii. 210; literary
work, ii. 210; on distribution of
animals, ii. 21; review articles, ii.
212; botanizing tour in Switzerland,
ii. 213; article " How best to Model
the Earth," ii. 214; on "The
Problem of Utility," ii. 215; reviews,
ii. 215, 126; invited by Dr. Lunn to
go to Davos, ii. 216; genial company,
ii. 217; lecture by Mr. Le Gallienne,
ii. 218; lecture on "Scientific Progress," ii. 219; leaves Davos for
Adelboden, ii. 220; articles and
reviews by, ii. 220; " Anticipations
and Hopes for the Immediate
Future" quoted, ii. 221-223; "A
Substitute for Militarism" quoted,
ii. 223-226; leaves Parkstone and
builds house near, ii. 227; suffers
from asthma, ii. 228; cured by
Dr. Salisbury's treatment, ii. 229,
230; writes "Wonderful Century,"
ii. 231; writes " Man's Place in the
Universe," ii. 232, 233; his first
interest in Land Nationalization, ii.
235; becomes member of the Land
Tenure Reform Association, ii. 235;
dining with John Stuart Mill and
discussion on God, ii. 236; on the
origin of evil, ii. 237
LAND NATIONALIZATION,ii. 235-274 -on land nationalization, ii. 238;
"Land Nationalization Society"
founded, ii. 240; forerunners of land
nationalization, ii. 240, 241; propositions of Robert Dick, ii. 241-243;
writes "Land Nationalization: its
Necessity and its Aims," ii. 243; his
paper on " The Morality of Interest"
quoted, ii. 244-249; correspondence
with Robert Miller, ii. 249; conference called by R. Miller on "How
to cause Wealth to be more equably
distributed," ii. 250; abstract from
Report quoted, ii. 251-253; result
of conference, ii. 253, 254; supporters
of land nationalization, ii. 255; visits
Mr. Boyd-Kinnear at Guernsey, ii.
256; on Professor Stuart Blackie, ii.
257; visits Mr. and Mrs. Cox in
Edinburgh, ii. 257; on Charles
Mackay, ii. 258-26I; on Gerald
Massey, ii. 261, 262; on Grant
Allen, ii. 262, 263; "Security of
the Home," delivered to meeting of

456
INDEX
ii. 300, 301; Mivart's letter on the
miracles of Lourdes, ii. 302-305;
other remarks about Lourdes, ii. 305 -309; how his acquaintance with
Romanes began, ii. 309, 310; letter
from Romanes on spiritualism, ii.
311-313; anecdote of Professor
Ansted, ii. 314; correspondence
between Romanes and Darwin, ii.
315; differences between Romanes
and, ii. 316; Romanes' attack on,
ii. 317; correspondence thereon, ii.
317-326; describes cases of materialization, ii. 327-331; Mr. Pengelly's
experience of " doubles," ii. 332-334;
estimate of F. W. H. Myers, ii. 334 -337; spiritualistic experiences in Boston, describes seances at Mrs. Ross', ii.
338; attempt made to seize spiritforms, ii. 340, 34I; describes seances
at Washington, ii. 341, 342; receives
messages from William Martin, ii.
343; other messages received, ii. 344;
General Lippitt's experiences, ii. 345,
346; describes seance at San Francisco, ii. 346-348; comments on. ii.
349, 350; first inquiries into vaccination, ii. 351; as witness to the
Royal Commission on Vaccination,
ii. 352, 353; publication of essay on
Vaccination published in " Wonderful
Century," ii. 354; Lord Grimthorpe's
letter to, ii. 355-357; Lord Grimthorpe's letter to Dr. Bond, ii. 357;
writes pamphlet on vaccination, ii.
358, 359; money affairs, ii. 360;
unfortunate investments, ii. 361; takes
shares in slate quarries and lead mines
that fail, ii. 362; worries over the
building at Grays, ii. 364; ending
in law-suit, ii. 365; accepts John
Hampden's challenge to prove the
convexity of the earth, ii. 365; first
test, ii. 365, 366; second test, ii. 367 -369; Mr. Hampden's behaviour on
losing his wager, ii. 370-372; legal
proceedings against Mr. Hampden,
ii. 372, 373; Mr. Hampden's continued libels on, ii. 374, 375; the
British Museum's manner of purchasing, ii. 376, 377; money difficulties,
ii. 378; receives Civil Service pension,
ii. 378; reflections on his life's work,
ii. 379-381; character of, ii. 382;
summary of new ideas of, ii. 383-390;
on bees' cells, ii. 390; on "homing"
instinct of dogs, ii. 391; on migratory
birds, ii. 392, 393; on Sunday
observance, ii. 394; on gunpowder
explosions, ii. 395; on fulfilled predictions, ii. 396-400
Wallace, A. R., excursions to Wales
with Mr. Mitten, described, ii. 401 -404; excursion to the Highlands with
Mr. Mitten, ii. 405; is appointed
assistant examiner in Physical
Geography, ii. 406; examples of
candidates' answers to questions, ii.
407-416; system of these examinations discussed, ii. 416-418
Wallace, Eliza, buried in St. Andrew's
churchyard, Hertford, i. 4, I5, 72
Wallace, Emma, birth of, i. I2; early
death of, i. I5
Wallace, Fanny, i. 2, 3; quoted, i. 7,
9; an account of her life, i. I4,
i5; at school at Lille, i. 72; gives
up her school at Hoddesdon and
goes to Georgia, i. 223; returns
home, i. 256; her marriage to
Thomas Sims, i. 263
Wallace, Herbert, account of the life

INDEX
457
home occupations of, i. 65-69; A. R.
Wallace goes to London to live with,
i. 79; on the condition of working
men, i. 81-84; evenings in London,
i. 86, 87; goes to Neath to settle
William's affairs, i. 14I; A. R.
Wallace goes to, i. 229; sets up
business with Alfred in Neath, i.
244; tries farming, i. 262; leaves
England and settles in California,
i. 263; meets A. R. Wallace in San
Francisco, ii. 158; A. R. Wallace
stays with, ii. 159; excursion to
Yosemite Valley, ii. 60o- 162;
goes to Santa Cruz, ii. 169; A. R.
Wallace leaves, ii. 170; present at
seance, ii. 346-348
Wallace, Mary, i. 2
Wallace, Mary Anne, early death of,
i. IS
Wallace, Mary Anne, mother of A.
Russel Wallace, oil paintings of the
Greenell ancestors in the possession
of, i. 5, 6I
Wallace, Thomas Vere, father of
A. Russel Wallace, i. I,'3; his burialplace, i. 4; an account of the life of,
i. 6; his marriage, i. Io; starts an
illustrated magazine, i. II; money
difficulties and removal with family
to Usk, i. 12; and afterwards to
Hertford and to Hoddesdon, i. 12;
more money difficulties and death,
i. I3; his appearance and character,
i. I6-i8; Shakespeare, readings
from, i. 17; verses by, quoted, i. 18;
received pupils, i. 46; life at Hertford, i. 7I, 74, 75; religion of, i. 77
Wallace, William, grandfather of A.
Russel Wallace, i. 2, 3
Wallace, William, brother of A. Russel
Wallace, i. I; his height, i. 3;
his education and start in life,
i. 14-I6; A. R. Wallace's childish
recollection of, i. 24; land-surveying
at Barton, and A. R. Wallace goes
to live with, i. o06-114; obtains
survey of Turvey, i. 117; life at
Turvey, i. 119-I27; survey at Silsoe,
i. I29; survey of Soulbury, i. I3;
returns to Hoddesdon for holiday, i.
I35; returns to office of Messrs.
Sayce, i. 136, 140; land-surveying
at Rhaldr-Gwy, i. 145; at Llanbister
surveying, i. 148-150; surveying in
Brecknockshire, i. I6o, 165; back
again at Kington, i. I70; surveying
in Glamorganshire, i. 178, I91; disapproves of A. R. Wallace's scientific
studies, i. I95; religious opinions
of, i. 227, 228; difficulty in finding
work, i. 229.; death of, i. 230, 239
Walsh, Mr. J. H., editor of The Field,
acts as umpire in the contest between
John Hampden and A. R. Wallace,
ii. 365-373
Walton's "Angler" read by A. R.
Wallace, i. 76
Ward, Mrs. Humphry, as socialist,
ii. 272
Ward, Professor F. Lester, A. R.

458
INDEX
Wallace goes to live with, i. 79,
263
Wedderburn, Sir David, writes to A.
R. Wallace, ii. 102; on India, ii.
262
Wedgwood, Mr. Hensleigh, ii. 279;
present at slances at Miss Douglas',
ii. 328; his connection with Mr.
Monk the medium, ii. 330, 331
Weir, Jenner, visits Darwin, ii. I; on
white moths, ii. 4; observations on
caterpillars, ii. 6
Weismann, Professor, theories of, i.
422, 423; ii. 22, 24
Welburn, residence of Dr. Spruce at,
ii. 50, 64
Welney Bridge, experiment at, ii. 365
Wengern Alp, i. 414; A. R. Wallace
stays at, ii. 214
West, Mr. Thomas, mining engineer,
ii. 18I-183.
Westminster Abbey, verses on Byron
and, i. 12; funeral of Darwin at,
ii. 102
Westminster Review, The,' " Mimicry
and Other Protective Resemblances
among Animals," by A. R. Wallace,
in, i. 407; ii. 3
Weston-super-Mare, residence of Mr.
and Mrs. Sims at, i. 263
Westwood, Professor, illustrations by,
i. 400
Wheatstone, Sir Charles, i. 435
"Whence comes Man, from c Nature ' or
from 'God'?" by Arthur J. Bell, ii. 37
"Whence, Where, and Whither," by
Dr. Nichols, ii. 338
Whewell, "Plurality of Worlds" by,
ii. 288
White, Mr. William, author of " Story
of a Great Delusion," ii. 354
White Sulphur Springs, ii. 138
Whittern, i. 170
"Why does Man exist?" by Arthur
J. Bell, ii. 37
"Wild Wales," by George Borrow, i.
159; account of Welsh literature in,
i. 68; quotation from, ii. 403
Williams, Miss, botanizing expedition
of, ii. 175
Williams, Mr., medium, ii. 318; his
manifestations, ii. 320; Romanes'
statements concerning, ii. 321; discussed, ii. 322, 324, 325
Williams, W. Mattieu, "Fuel of the
Sun," by, i. 429
Williamsport, ii. 125
Williamstown, A. R. Wallace lectures
on " Colours of Animals" at, ii.
III
Willowhole, A. R. Wallace's adventures at, i. 34
Wilson, Dr., of Toronto, ii. I26
Wilson, Rev. Percy, cousin of A. R.
Wallace, i. I, 150
Wilson, Thomas, married Martha
Greenell, i. 4, 5; A. R. Wallace's
visit to, i. 31; bankruptcy of, i. 72
Wilson, W., his letter on Wallace's
" Natural Selection," quoted, ii. 62

INDEX
459
Wrest Park, seat of Earl de Grey, i.
107, 129
Wright, Professor, of Dublin, ii. 34
Wright, Professor, of Toronto, ii. 126
Wright, Mr. and Mrs., described, i.
140, 141
Wyld's great globe in Leicester Square,
ii. 215
Y
York, meeting of British Association
at, ii. 50; A. R. Wallace lectures
at, ii. 201
Yosemite Valley, excursion to, described, ii. I6o-I62
Young, Arthur, quoted, ii. 140
Ysgwd Einon Gain, waterfall, i. 249,
251
Ysgwd Gladys, waterfall, i. 249, 25I
Ystrad-fellte, i. 251; described, i. 251,
252
Ystwith river at Aberystwith, i. i, I6I
Z
Zollner, Professor, on spiritualism, ii.
336
Zoological Society, i. 3I3, 320; Huxley
at meeting of, i. 323; A. R. Wallace
reads a paper on Monkeys at the, i.
324; A. R. Wallace attends meetings of, i. 386; A. R. Wallace reads
paper on Birds of Paradise to the, i.
387-394, 396, 397
Zoologist, The, Mr. Maw's review of
" The Origin of Species" in, ii. 2
END
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES.


