Sir Henry Bessemer, F.R.S. An autobiography. With a concluding
chapter.

Bessemer, Henry, Sir, 1813-1898.
London, Offices of "Engineering," 1905.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t5fb4zc34

                                          Public Domain
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address.
 SIR HENRY BESSEMER, F.R.S.

                      AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

                           WITH A CONCLUDING CHAPTER.

         *5X
                                    ^

UNIVERSITY }

                                                                      LONDON :

  OFFICES OF "ENGINEERING," 35 AND 36, BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, W.C.

                                                                                               1905.
                                      TO THE
                PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS

                                                   OP THE

IRON AND STEEL INSTITUTE

                                                                 OP

             GREAT BRITAIN

         THIS VOLUME IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED
                   BY THEIR OLD COLLEAGUE AND
                          PAST PRESIDENT

    SIR HENRY BESSEMER

                               IN REMEMBRANCE
                                                 OF

                             TWENTY-FIVE YEARS
                         CONTENTS

                                                                                EARLY DAYS  PAGES
                                                                                            1 to 18
Introductory Parentage -Flight from Paris Childhood and Youth at Charlton
              Early Days in London Art Castings from Natural Objects Copper-

         coated Medallions Acquaintance with Dr. Ure "Lost Wax" Castings

           Dies for Stamping Cardboard -

                                      CHAPTER II

                                                                 THE REWARD OP INVENTION    19 to 32

Forged Stamps Visit to Somerset House The Legion of Honour Letter to
          Lord Beaconsfield (1878) Letter to The Times The Reward of Invention
            A Tardy Recognition The Honour of Knighthood

                         CHAPTER III

       COMPRESSING PLUMBAGO DUST, CASTING TYPE, TYPE-COMPOSING MACHINE, ETC.

Sawing Plumbago Compressing Powdered Plumbago      Casting Type Engine
          Turning Manufacture of Alloys Marriage  Stamping Medallions
           Young's Type-Composing Machine
                                                                                            33 to 47

Stamping Utrecht Velvet              CHAPTER IV                                             48 to 52

                                              UTRECHT VELVET
                         Embossing Utrecht Velvet Terry Edging

                         CHAPTER V

                         THE MANUFACTURE OF BRONZE POWDER

Early  Schemes for Making Bronze Powder First Experiments Failure
       Microscopic Examination Fresh Attempt The First Success Prepara-
       tions for the Manufacture of Bronze Powder Designing Bronze Powder                   53 to 85
       Machinery The Erection of the Machinery Making Coloured Bronzes
       The Manufacture of Gold Paint "Charlton House" Introduction to
       Mr. Robert Longsdon A German Spy A Defence of the Patent Law
VI CONTENTS

                                           CHAPTER VI                                      PAGES
                                                                                         86 to 95
                                              IMPROVEMENTS IN SUGAR MANUFACTURE

The Society of Arts Gold Medal Offered for Improvements Experiments with
            Canes Invention of Cane Press Presentation of the Gold Medal-

                                   CHAPTER VII

A Police-Court Adventure               A HOLIDAY IN GERMANY                                  96 to 99
                          Home Again                                                     100 to 123

                                   CHAPTER VIII

                          IMPROVEMENTS IN GLASS MANUFACTURE

Optical Glass Experiments with Viscid Fluids Furnace for Making Optical
          Glass Mixing Materials for Glass-making Open-Hearth Glass Furnace
          Continuous Sheet Glass Furnace Interview with Mr. Chance Project
          for Glass Works in London Pneumatic Glass Polishing Table Silvering
           Glass Mirrors

                                   CHAPTER IX

                                   THE EXHIBITION OF 1851

The Centrifugal Pump The Opening Day Consultations with Inventors
                                                             - -124 to 129
Continuous Brakes for Railways

                                   CHAPTER X

                          EARLY GUNNERY EXPERIMENTS.

Rifled Projectiles Introduction     to the Emperor Napoleon Experiments       at
          Vincennes with Rotating  Projectile Materials for the Construction  of
           Guns
                                                                                         130 to 137

                                           CHAPTER XI                                    138 to 151

                                                   THE GENESIS OF THE BESSEMER PROCESS

Experiments with Reverberatory Furnaces Early Experiments on the Bessemer
          Process Early Forms of Bessemer Converters The Tilting Converter
           The Bessemer Steel Works, Sheffield

                                       CHAPTER XII                                       152 to 177

                                                                   THE BESSEMER PROCESS

The First Bessemer Ingot The Cheltenham Meeting of the British Association
           The Cheltenham Paper, 1856 Imitations of the Bessemer Process The
          Introduction of the Bessemer Process The first Licensees An Offer of
          Purchase of Patents Early Difficulties with the Bessemer Process
          Phosphoric Pig Iron The Introduction of Bessemer Tool Steel The
         Profits of the Sheffield Works . - - - -
                         CONTENTS                                               vil

                         CHAPTER XIII

       BESSEMER STEEL AND COLONEL EARDLEY WILMOT

Bessemer Pig Bessemer Steel Works at Sheffield The First Malleable Iron                PAGES
          Gun Swedish Iron Investigations at Woolwich Bessemer Steel-making     178 to 188
           at Sheffield                                                         189 to 199

                         CHAPTER XIV                                            200 to 215

       THE BESSEMER PROCESS AND THE WAR OFFICE

Interview with the Secretary of State for War Early Difficulties Steel Gun-

Tubes Colonel Wilmot's experiments Tests made at Woolwich                  -

                         CHAPTER XV

       BESSEMER STEEL : THE ARMSTRONG CONTROVERSY

Pressed Steel Cups Bessemer Steel Boiler Plates Experiments with Bessemer

Steel  Steel Guns Cost of Bessemer Steel Bessemer Steel versus

Wrought Iron Built-up Steel Guns Bessemer Steel-making at Sheffield

                         CHAPTER XVI

                         BESSEMER STEEL GUNS

Bessemer Steel at Woolwich Rejection of Delivery Bessemer Iron and Steel

Paper at the Institution of Civil Engineers Steel-making at Sheffield

Gun-making at Sheffield Paper Read before the Institution of Mechanical
Engineers at Sheffield The Exhibition of 1862 Cost of Bessemer Steel

The Sale of Part of the Bessemer Patents Government Compensation

to the Elswick Ordnance Factory Bessemer Steel for Guns -                    -  216 to 239
                                                                                240 to 255
                         CHAPTER XVII
                                                                                256 to 295
       OAST STEEL FOR SHIPBUILDING

Bessemer Steel for Boiler Plates Steel for Shipbuilding Sir N. Barnaby on

Steel Ship-plates Tests of Bessemer Steel Boiler-plates at Crewe             -

                         CHAPTER XVIII

       MANGANESE IN STEEL-MAKING

Patents relating to the Use of Manganese in Steel-making Heath's Patent, and

Use of Manganese Martien and Mushet's Inventions Manganese and

Pitch Spiegeleisen in Steel-making Fluid-compressed Steel The Dis-

advantages of Spiegeleisen Franklinite The Manufacture of Ferro-

Manganese Swedish Bessemer Steel The Bessemer Process in Austria

The Neuberg Works in Austria Honours and Recognitions The Effect

of Manganese on Steel Carburet of Manganese Alloys of Iron and

Manganese Visit to Cornwall The Production of Bessemer Pig-iron

Early Experiments at Ebbw Vale Interview with Miss Mushet

The Death of Mr. Mushet                       ---
Vlll CONTENTS

                       CHAPTER XIX

                                 EBBW VALE

A Momentous Journey Interview with Mr. David Chad wick Ultimatum                                 PAGES
                                                                                           296 to 303
Offered to the Ebbw Vale Company  Agreement with the Ebbw Vale
Company End of Opposition -                            --

                       CHAPTER XX

                                                           THE BESSEMER SALOON STEAM-SHIP  304 to 326

First Design of the Bessemer Saloon Working Model of the Bessemer Saloon
         The Formation of a Company The Design of the Hull The Saloon

       The Control of the Bessemer Saloon Sir E. J. Reed's Letter to The

            Times The Builders of the Ship Financial Difficulties of the Bessemer
         .Saloon Ship Company The Collision with Calais Pier The First Trip
          of the Bessemer Saloon Steam-ship The Second Trip Liquidation of
           the Company

                       CHAPTER XXI

                       CONCLUSION

List of Patents granted to Henry Bessemer, 1838-1883 Skill as a Draughtsman

Reminiscences Early Struggles First Steel Rails Bessemer Steel at

the Exhibition of 1862 First Bessemer Steel in the United States

American Bessemer Plant The Original of the Popojfrka The "Dial of

Life" Nasmy th's System of Puddling The Occupation of Besserner's

Later Years Lens and Mirror Grinding Machine Telescope Solar

Furnace Diamond Polishing Mr. W. D. Allen Resolution Passed by

the Iron and Steel Institute on Sir Henry Bessemer's Death Bessemer*'

Cities in the United States A Billion Dissected Easter and the Coal

Question Death of Lady Bessemer   Death of Sir Henry Bessemer
                                       --
Bessemer's Parents  -                                              -                       327 to 380
                                 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

      FIG.                                                                                                               PAGE

          1.             Portrait of Sir Henry Bessemer -                    - Frontispiece

        5.               (Plate  I.)     Copy in Relief of Raphael Cartoon                                 To face page  13
                                                                                                                         13
     and     4. 3. 2.    (Plate II.) Copy of Oval Medallion)                                                             14
       to 11.
12 to 14.                Extract from Dr. lire's Dictionary, "Electro-Metallurgy"
      15.
      16.                (Plate III.) Government Deed Stamp                                                To face page  20
       17.                                                                                                               20
       18.                                      Bessemer Perforated Stamp -
19 and 20.97
      21.6.              (Plate IV.) Facsimile of Lord Beaconsfield's Letter -                                           31
22 and 23.                                                                                                               37
       24.       8.      Method of Compressing Plumbago Dust -
25 and 26.              (
27 and 28.               (Plates V. and VI.) Reproductions of Medals and Medallions To face page                         43
                                                                                                                         45
29 to 32.                Young's Type-Composing Machine
      33.
      34.                (Plate VII.) Reproductions of Stamped Utrecht Velvet                              To face page  51
                                                                                                                         56
35 to 37.                Diagram Showing Base of Pyramids for Bronze Powder

38 to 41.                Sugar-cane Passing between Rolls    a                                                           87
                                                                                             .
      42.
                                                                                                        a
      43.                (Plate VIII.) Side Elevation of the Bessemer Sugar-press                          To face page  90
                                                                                                                         91
                         Vertical Section and Plan of Bessemer Sugar-cane Press, 1849

                         Section of Fireclay Saucer and Glass Disc                                         - 102

                         Experiment showing Air Carried into Viscid Fluid by Stirrer                                     104

                         (Plate IX.) Furnace for Making Optical Glass                                      To face page  105
                                                                                                                         111
                         (Plate X.) Furnace and Rolls for making Continuous Sheet Glass
                                                                                                                         117
                         (Plate XL) Elevation and Section of Glass Works Designed by

                                 Mr. Longsdon                                                              To face page

                         Bessemer's Pneumatic Polishing Table for Plate Glass                                      120
                         Section of Experimental Mortar -                                                  - 131

                         Model of Bessemer's Revolving Shot         -                                      - 133

                         (Plate XII.) Vertical and Horizontal Sections of Furnace for Malleable

                                 Iron                                                                      To face page  142

                         (Plate XIII.) Sections of Crucible with Blow-pipe, and of Forms of
                                                                                                           To face page  143
                                 Vertical Fixed Converters

                         (Plate XIV.) Section of Converter, Ladle, and Hydraulic Ingot
                                                                                                  To face page
                                   Mould -     First  Form  of Bessemer                                                  146
                                                                             -ToMoveable Converter and                   148
                         (Plate XV.) The                                                                face page

                                   Ladle -

                                                                                                           b
X LIST OP ILLUSTRATIONS

      FIQ.  (Plate XVI.) Early Form of Bessemer     Converting Plant at Sheffield                                                 PAGE
      44.                                                                         To face page
                                                                                                                                    150
      45.   (Plate XVII.) Bessemer Plant at Sheffield : Converters, Ladle and Crane,
                    and Casting Pit -                                                                                               150
      46.                                                             To face page                                                  150
      47.                                                                                                                           150
       48.  (Plate XVIII.) Plan of Bessemer Plant at Sheffield -            -                                                       154
      49.                                                                                                                           194
50 to 55.   Ingot Crane ; Bessemer Plant at Sheffield -                                                                             201
      56.
            Malleable Iron Ingot -                                          -                                                       202
      57.
            (Plate XIX.) Specimens of Bessemer Steel Gun Tubes -      To face page                                                  204
      58.
            Bessemer Steel Boiler Plate being Pressed into a Cup (1861)-                                                            204
59 and 60.
            (Plate  XX.)    Bessemer     Steel Boiler Plate Pressed into a Cup (1861)                                               204
      61.                                                                                             To /ace page                  204
      62.                                                                                                                           208
      63.   (Plate XXI.) Square Bar of Bessemer Metal Twisted Cold, and Shown at
                                                                                                                                    209
      64.           Sheffield, 1861                                   To face page                                                  218
      65.
       66.  (Plate XXII.) Square Bar of Bessemer    Steel Twisted Cold, and Shown at                                                226
                                                                                       To face page                                 228
       67.            Sheffield, 1861
       68.                                          Steel Twisted Cold, and shown at                                                229
            (Plate XXIII.) Square Bars of Bessemer                                     To face page
       69.                                                                                                                           234
                       Sheffield, 1861 -
       70.                                                                                                                          234
            Pressing Bessemer Steel Block for Rifle Barrel                                      -
       71.                                                                                                                          234
            (Plate XXIV.) Disintegrated Wrought Iron Bars                  To face page                                             246
       72.  (Plate XXV.) Bessemer Mild Steel Bar, Flattened       under Hammer
       73.                                                                                                                          251
                                                                           To face page
       74.                                                                                                                           253
            Particulars of Tool Steel supplied to Woolwich Arsenal, 1859 -
       75.                                                                                                                           253
            (Plate XXVI.) Bessemer Steel Locomotive Tyre, Tested under Hammer -
       76.                                                                                                                           270
            ( ) Section of Bessemer Steel Gun               supplied  to the Belgian
                       Government, 1860
                                                                         To face page
            Forged Bessemer Steel Gun, with Test Pieces                                          -

            (Plate XXVII.) Group of Test-pieces from Bessemer Gun Forgings

                                                                                                                    To face page

            (Plate XXVIII.) Bessemer Steel Gun Test-piece, Shown at the Meeting of the

                     Institution of Mechanical Engineers at Sheffield, 1861. To face page

            (Plate XXIX.) Bessemer Steel Gun Test-piece, Shown at the Meeting of the

                     Institution of Mechanical Engineers at Sheffield, 1861. To face page

            (Plate XXX.) The Bessemer    Display    at the International Exhibition,
                                                                                      To face page
                    London, 1862      -

            (Plate XXXI.) Alleged Faulty Bessemer Plate, 1875     at Crewe  by Mr.

            System of Testing Bessemer Steel Plates adopted
                     F. W. Webb

            (Plate XXXII.) Examples of Bessemer Steel Plate "Spun" into Vases,
                    etc. -
                                                                      To face page

            (Plate XXXIII.) Test Specimens of Bessemer Steel made at Sheffield,

                    1859-1869                                         To face page

            Experimental Apparatus for Exposing Molten Steel to the Action of a

                    Vacuum               - ----
                        LIST OP ILLUSTRATIONS                                                       XI

FIQ.                                                                                                PAGE

77. (Plate XXXIV.) Reproduction of a page from the Supp lement to Dr. lire's                          281
                                                                                                      284
            "Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines" -               To face page                285

78.         Facsimile reproduction from Bessemer's Note-book  -                          -            287

       79.  (Plate XXXV.) Facsimile of Pages from Bessemer's Note-book. To face page                 304
       80.
81 and 82.  (Plate XXXVI). Statuary and Clock in Sir Henry Bessemer's Hall at                        307
            Denmark Hill .                                                                           307
      83.                                                                 To face page
      84.                                                                                            310
            (Plate XXXVII.) Sections Through Early Form of Bessemer Saloon in                        315
                                                                                                     322
            Still "Water, and with Vessel Rolling -                       To face page
                                                                                                     344
            (Plate XXXVIII.) Model of Bessemer Saloon, with Hull in Horizontal                       344
                                                                                                     344
            Position                                                      To face page               345
                                                                                                     346
            (Plate XXXIX.) Model of Bessemer Saloon, with Hull inclined.                             347
                                                                                                     351
85. (Plate XL.) Transverse Section of Saloon on the Channel Steamer                                  352
                                                                                                     352
            "Bessemer"                                                    To face page               352
                                                                                                     355
86. (Plate XLI.) General View of the Bessemer Saloon Steam-ship.                                     359
                                                                                                    360
87. (Plate XLII.) Interior of Saloon, Bessemer Saloon Steam-ship                                     361
88. (Plate XLIII.) View of Sir Henry Bessemer's Residence at Denmark Hill
                                                                                                     366
                                                                          To face page
                                                                                                    376
89. (Plate XLIV.) The Conservatory at Denmark Hill -                                                380
90. (Plate XLV.) The Grotto at Denmark Hill
91. "Dial of Life," for Mr. James Nasmyth

92. "Dial of Life," for Sir Henry Bessemer -

    93. (Plate XLVI.) Facsimile of a Letter from Mr. James Nasmyth.       To face page
                                                                                                 -
94 and 95. Lens and Mirror Grinding Machine
                                                                          To face page
    96. (Plate XLVIL) The Observatory, Denmark Hill
    97. (Plate XLVIII.) Gallery Floor of Observatory                                          -
    98. (Plate XLIX.) Interior of Observatory, Ground Floor

99 and 100. The Bessemer Solar Furnace

101 to 103. Diamond Polishing Machine

104. Method of Driving Diamond Polishing Machines                                     -

105.        Method of Driving Diamond Polishing Machines      -

106. Sketches of Steel Wheel and Steel Rail; London and North-Western

            Railway                                                                   -

107.        Solid Steel Column Illustrating the World's Production of Bessemer Steel

            in 1892                                                                   -

            (Plate L.) Portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Bessemer         To face page
                                           ...

                                   'VERSfTY

                                   PREFACE

TT is fifty years since Henry Bessemer made the great invention which

has rendered his name famous, not only in English-speaking countries,

but also in all civilised communities, and it is seven years since he died.

If this Autobiography had dealt with the story of a lesser man, its

appearance so long after his death might have reduced its interest and

value so far as to render it scarcely worth while to place the narrative

before the reader. But lapse of time cannot tarnish the lustre of

Henry Bessemer's memory, nor can common and world- wide use of the

great invention that crowned                                                                story of the
   S.                                   render uninteresting                             a
                       it,
struggles through which he passed and the battles he had to fight before

the world became enriched by his inventive genius.

The late Abram Hewitt, himself an engineer of universal reputation,

and one of the pioneers of the Bessemer Process in the United States,

speaking at the American meeting of the London Iron and Steel

Institute, in 1890, said  :

A  very few considerations will serve to show that the Bessemer invention takes its

rank with the great events which have changed the face of society since the time of the

Middle Ages. The invention of printing, the construction of the magnetic compass, the

discovery of America, and the introduction of the steam-engine, are the only capital events in

modern history which belong to the same category as the Bessemer process. They are all

examples of the law and progress which evolve social and moral results from material

discoveries and inventions. It inconceivable to us how the world ever existed without the
                                 ; is
                                              it                                         we were deprived of the
                                                     is

                                                   I

                                                                           it
                                                                                     is

                                                                              if
appliances of modern civilisation  and  quite certain that

results of these inventions the greater portion of the human race would perish by starvation,

and the remainder would relapse into barbarism.  know       very high praise to class the
XIV PREFACE

Iinvention of Bessemer with these great achievements, but  think a careful survey of the

situation will lead us to the conclusion that no one of these has been more potent in

....preparing the way for the higher civilisation which  awaits the coming century than the
                                                          The name of Bessemer will therefore
pneumatic process for the manufacture of steel

be added to the honourable roll of men who have succeeded in spreading the gospel of
"Peace on earth and goodwill toward men," which our Divine Master came on earth

to teach and encourage.

       The words of Abram S. Hewitt are frequently quoted in the
following pages, always in the same spirit of appreciation of the great
inventor ; but on no other occasion did he so justly and clearly
crystallise his opinion of Bessemer as in the foregoing passage addressed
to the Iron and Steel Institute, at a time when all the futile attempts
that had been made to deprive Bessemer of the profit and glory of his
great invention, had faded into almost forgotten history, and its practical
outcome in the United States was measured by millions of tons of steel

every year.
       On an early page of this volume the author tells us he makes

no claim to literary merit. He, certainly, was without training in the
art of writing, but the happy gift, which characterised all his mechanical
work, of instinctively selecting the simplest and best means of attaining
a given end, did not desert him here. He wrote just as he talked, and

infused into his writing the charm of his conversation. It was one of the

great pleasures of his latter years to discuss with his old and valued
friends the proprietors of Engineering the details of his Autobiography,
and each printed page is more or less a reflection of the man himself
in his varying moods. The eighty-five years of busy life which had
been allotted him, had in no measure dimmed his memory, or even
paled his enthusiasm : and in his Autobiography he lived over again the
ambitions of youth, the struggles of manhood, the bitterness of injustice,
the pleasure of appreciation, and the satisfaction of success. The
world, as it recollects Bessemer, only knew him as the triumphant
inventor, but in this volume we tread with him the thorny road to
                     PREFACE                                   XV

success, and more than that, he shows us the seamy side of the

inventor's career.

      Unfortunately, this Autobiography is not complete ; even a Chapter
of the history of the steel process is wanting that recording its brilliant
success in the United States. Sir Henry laid down his pen only a year

before he died, but his self-told story goes no further than the episode

of the Bessemer Saloon Steamer, in 1872. After that incident was
closed he retired into private life, but not to a life of idleness. He
had many occupations : the beautifying of his home ; the installation
of a large diamond-cutting and finishing plant ; his telescope and
observatory ; his method of cutting and polishing optical lenses ; his

solar furnace ; all these and other things kept him very busy, and formed

not the least interesting part of his long life. It is unfortunate that

he has left no consecutive record of this period ; but he did leave

many drawings, letters, and other documents referring to  it,  and from

these has been prepared the supplementary Chapter which concludes

the present volume.
                               CHAPTER I

                               EARLY DAYS

T71OR many years past my most intimate friends have urged on me

the desirability of giving to the world an authentic account of the

origin and progress of the several inventions which together constitute
                                                " Bessemer                                                            "
what has, by common  consent,  been called the              Steel  Process
                                                                                                                     ;

thus tracing back to their earliest inception the various ideas and incidents

which have led, by almost imperceptible degrees, to the development

and practical working of that great steel industry, which, in so short

a period, has spread itself over the whole of the continents of Europe

and North America.

    If we contemplate the rise and progress of almost all the great

industries of the world, we find their origins lost in the mist of ages,

with but few indications remaining of their gradual progress and

development, or even of the names of those persons to whom we are

indebted for their discovery.

This difficulty in tracing the origin of inventions is not less marked

at the present day, when the increased rate of progress in all things

brings about, in a few short years, a succession of changes, which, in olden

times, centuries were required to effect ; for the inventor of to-day is

to-morrow overshadowed by the accumulated mass of improvements

that follow in the wake of every new discovery.

    I well remember how the world was startled by the great discovery

of Daguerre ;* how few minds could, at the first moment of its announce-

ment, realise the wondrous fact that by the aid of chemistry combined

with knowledge, he had seized upon and trapped the fleeting shadow

on his silver plate and held it there immovable for ever.

* The production of Daguerreotype  plates was announced on February 6th, 1839
                                                                                                                  B
                             HENRY BESSEMER

The mind had scarce time to grasp the importance of this marvellous

discovery before there commenced that ceaseless flow of inventive talent

which, growing with years, has wholly submerged the original invention

of Daguerre. Process succeeded process with immense rapidity. At

every step new ground was covered ; more beautiful and more permanent

effects were almost daily produced by scientific investigators whose name

was legion ; until at last the glorious orb of day has taken over the
business of the engraver, and daily produces its hundreds of deeply-

etched blocks from which our common printing machines throw oft' their

thousands of printed sheets with the same facility with which they

print a page of common type. In the midst of these marvels of modern
                                  exclaim, " Where is                   "
invention  we  look  around  and                       now  Daguerre       and
                                                                      ?

echo answers " Where ? " Simply buried beneath the huge monument

which, instead of being raised to his fame, has placed him out of sight

and out of memory.

    I have referred thus prominently to this great discovery of Daguerre

and its subsequent marvellous developments, not only because it made

a deep impression on my youthful imagination at the time, but because

I purpose making a somewhat extensive use of photography in illustrating

the following pages, where its absolute truthfulness will afford indisputable

evidence of some facts which would otherwise have been altogether

omitted, rather than allow them to rest on the uncorroborated testimony

of the writer. At the same time this beautiful art will serve to illustrate

many existing objects, an equally realistic idea of which the most elaborate

description would fail to impart.
It is to the rapid passing into oblivion of great inventions like
Ithat of Daguerre that
                             attribute the pressure of my kind friends

who ask me to give them some account of my early life and its

relation to the more immediate past, while yet the process which bears

my name remains an existing fact among us, aud has not been engulfed

in that ever-advancing tide of scientific knowledge and commercial

enterprise which sweeps away the past and leaves us face to face only

with the present.       this matter was  my friend, Mr. Price Williams,
       So energetic in  he called on me  with Mr. Samuel Smiles, LL.D.,

that some years ago
INTRODUCTORY

whose well-known talent as a biographer had all but tempted me to

Icommit this task to him. We had a long consultation on the subject,

but could not feel that my life and its labours were a theme which

could be treated in such a way as to make them interesting to the

general reader, even when clothed in the beautiful language and charming

style of that eminent writer. There were none of the exciting incidents

of travel to relate : no hairbreadth escapes, no dangers by land and sea,
                                              IIndeed,
to seize upon and captivate the imagination.            could not

help feeling that my daily pursuits were of too technical a character

to supply the necessary materials to form an interesting book ; and

if the narrative were simply treated in the plain matter-of-fact style

I Iof which alone was capable, felt it would have inevitably failed to be

of sufficient interest, either to the general reader or to the man of

science. Thus the proposed biography was for the time abandoned.

Nevertheless, several of my friends have from time to time tried to

induce me to write a concise account of my steel invention in my own
quiet way. More especially was this view commended to my notice by my

old friend Alexander Hollingsworth and his colleagues, the able editors
of Engineering, William H. Maw and James Dredge. Thus it was in

Ithe year 1884 found myself busily engaged in preparing large coloured

drawings of the converting and other apparatus, and in the course of two

or three months at least a dozen drawings were completed, from which

I Iphotographic copies on a reduced scale were made on wood-blocks to

illustrate the work had just begun. At this time was also engaged

designing the whole of the machinery about to be erected by my grandson,

William Bessemer Wright, at the new diamond mills in Clerkenwell ;

Iand became so deeply engrossed in working out the details of several

experimental diamond-cutting machines which were in course of con-

struction on my own premises at Denmark Hill, that by degrees my
Iattention was gradually more and more drawn from the book
                                                            had
Icommenced, and became at last wholly absorbed in the more congenial

work of construction going on every day in my workshop. Again the

Ilong-contemplated autobiography was laid aside, and must confess that

there always was in my mind an undercurrent of feeling averse to the task.

    I have at all times keenly experienced the difficulty, which must
HENRY BESSEMER

necessarily confront an author when speaking of himself, and of what

Ihe has accomplished, of setting forth what have done and what credit
I am entitled to, without appearing to be self-assertive, and displaying

a personal bias in relation to certain controversial matters into which

I Iam obliged to enter. From this difficulty see no way of escape without

abandoning the work laid upon me by the importunity of my friends.

I have, therefore, resolved to follow out rigidly the unenviable task of

self-assertion, and not to shrink from fearlessly and truthfully claiming

Iwhat is due to me, just as though were speaking of some other person,
I Iwhose advocate for the time had constituted myself. And shall, with

equal candour, point out the persistent opposition and obstructive tactics

to which my invention has been subjected in a few prominent cases ;

Iwhile, on the other hand, shall with pleasure place on record my

grateful acknowledgments to those in the world of science who have

honoured me by their kind appreciation : a gratitude which is also due

from me to the many iron and steel manufacturers who have unreservedly

acknowledged my patent-rights, and with rigid and scrupulous honour

have fulfilled to the letter all their engagements with me.

    IHaving thus entered upon a task so long deferred, shall endeavour

to make assured accuracy of historical detail take the place of literary
Iability, which know but too well will be only conspicuous by its absence
Iin these pages. Fortunately,
                                am in a position to review the past

wholly uninfluenced by any mercantile considerations, having long ceased

to possess pecuniary interests in the iron or steel manufacture; and
having arrived at that late period of life when there is no desire for

new worlds to conquer, and there are no strong ambitions to bias the

mind and obscure the judgment.

The name of Bessemer does not sound like an English one, and has
                                                  I may therefore
often given rise to doubts as to my nationality.

mention a few facts in relation to my father. He was born at No. 6, Old

Broad Street, in the City of London, and at the age of eleven years

was taken to Holland by his parents, who settled there. In due time

he was articled to a mechanical engineer, and during his apprenticeship

assisted in erecting the first steam-engine in Holland, this engine being
employed in draining the turf pits near Haarlem.
                    MY FATHERS EARLY CAREER  5

      After arriving at the age of twenty-one, my father went to Paris,

and there commenced a career which did him much honour. At the

early age of twenty-six he was made a member of the Academy of

Sciences, as a reward for a great improvement he had effected in the

microscope.  He was at that period engaged in the Paris Mint, and

while there invented that very simple and beautiful machine now known

as the Portrait Lathe, by means of which medallion dies of any desired

size can be engraved in steel from an enlarged model.

      He was still residing in Paris at the time of the great French

Revolution, and, as an active member of the Commissariat Department,

he had to distribute a certain dole of bread and rice to the starving

thousands, who formed a long queue for many hours every morning
before the municipal bakery was opened. Everyone in Paris at that

time felt the pinch for food. My father had a small estate some twenty

miles out of town, and when he saw the probability of a famine, he

had a few sacks of wheat taken to his house in Paris, and there secretly

stowed away ; for a knowledge of their presence would have brought

the hungry mob upon him. It was my mother's task at night, when the

household had retired to rest,' to Ogrind some of this wheat in a coffee
mill, so that cakes might be made for the morrow's breakfast ; and

thus in secret my parents enjoyed the luxury of whole-meal bread of

their own manufacture.

      My father was most anxious to return to England, but it was very
difficult to get away. He could obtain nothing from his bankers but

the paper money then well known as Assignats, which were issued for

amounts as low as fifty sous, or about two shillings in English value.

Fortunately a short lull occurred in those stormy times, and, taking

advantage of the opportunity, my parents escaped to England, bringing

with them about 6,000 in nominal value in Assignats, and only a very

small sum in cash.

      Arrived in London, my father had to begin the world over again ;
so availing himself of his intimate knowledge of the use of the stamping-

press and dies, and the working of gold, he commenced the manufacture
of gold chains of a novel and beautiful description. By using gold
of a high standard of quality, and with the assistance of finely -executed
                                                              HENRY BESSEMER

steel dies for stamping each link, a splendid chain was produced, which
appeared very massive while in reality it was very light. These chains
were bought by the retail jewellers as rapidly as they could be made.

       While this new branch of trade was going on satisfactorily, a great
panic was created in London by a report that Napoleon was about
to invade England in flat-bottomed boats, which were said to be then
at Boulogne, prepared for the expedition. My father, who had lost
all in Paris, was determined at this juncture to secure some solid
property in his own country, and at once dispatched his traveller to
collect all the money he could from his various customers. With this
money he purchased a small landed estate in the village of Charlton,
near Kitchen in Hertfordshire, to which he shortly afterwards retired,

Iand where was born on the 19th January, 1813.

      My father's active business habits did not permit him to lead a life
of idleness, and, after a year or two of quiet retirement, he commenced
to cut letter-punches for Mr. Henry Caslon, the proprietor of the
well-known Caslon type-foundry of London. The eminence my father
had acquired in this art, while in the Paris Mint, enabled him to
produce specimens of typography far more beautiful than any others
that could be met with at that time. An immense accession of trade
to the Caslon foundry resulted, and Mr. Henry Caslon became a
frequent visitor at my father's house at Charlton ; where, on one of
these occasions, he acted as my godfather, and gave me the name of

Henry.
        Some years later, my father was joined in business by a former

partner of Mr. Caslon's, and a type-foundry was built on our estate at

ICharlton. The knowledge of metal work which acquired in this foundry,
Iassisted, doubt not, in fostering and developing that taste for casting
Iand other metallurgical works in which, as an amateur, took so deep

and abiding an interest.

    IAfter leaving school, begged my father to let me remain at home,

and learn something of practical engineering. This he acceded to, and
as a preliminary step he bought me one of those beautiful small slide-
rest lathes, made by Messrs. Holtzapffel of London, and which are still
produced in all their original excellence by that eminent firm.
            MY CHILDHOOD AT CHARLTON                        7

After a year or two at the vice and lathe, and other practical

mechanical work, my father allowed me to employ myself in making

working models of any of the too-numerous schemes which the vivid
                                 IAmong these,
imagination of youth suggested.                     well remember, was

a machine for making bricks, which was one of the most successful of my

early attempts, producing pretty little model bricks in white pipeclay.
I Ialways had access to molten type-metal, which
                                                    used for casting

wheels, pulleys, and other parts of mechanical models where strength

was not much required. Hence arose various devices for moulding

different forms, a matter that caused me very little trouble, for by some

intuitive instinct modelling came to me unsought and unstudied. Often

Iduring my evening walks round the fields, with a favourite dog,

would take a small lump of yellow clay from the roadside, and fashion
Iit into some grotesque head or natural object, from which
                                                            would

afterwards make a mould and cast it in type-metal.

In this quiet village life there was a break every two months,

when the large melting-furnace was used to make type-metal, in which

proceeding a great secret was involved. In spite of injunctions to the
Icontrary,
            would, by some means or other, find my way into the

melting-house, where large masses of antimony were broken up to form

the alloy with lead. The dust arising from the powdered antimony,

on more that one occasion, caused me severe sickness, and betrayed my
Iclandestine visits to the melting-house, where
                                                    discovered that the

addition of tin and copper, in small quantities, to the ordinary alloy,

was the secret by which my father's type lasted so much longer than

that produced by other typefounders.

There was, however, one other attraction in the village, which played

a not-unimportant part in moulding my ideas at this very early period.
I was very fond of machinery, and of watching it when in motion ; and
I Iif ever
was absent from meals,                could probably have been found at
Ithe flour mill at the other end of the village, where
                                                        passed many

hours, gazing with pleasure upon the broad sheet of water falling into

the ever-receding buckets of the great overshot water-wheel ; or, perhaps,

I might have been watching, with a feeling almost of awe, the huge

wooden spur-wheel which brought up the speed, and was one of the
8 HENRY BESSEMER

wonders of the millwright's craft in those days. Its massive oak shaft

and polished horn-beam cogs have long since passed away, and yielded

to their successor, cast iron, which in its turn is now being rapidly

replaced by the stronger metal, steel, thus keeping up that ever-changing

cycle of advancement in the arts which is carrying us forward to

discoveries that may change every phase of civilised life, if the exhaustion

of our coal does not land us again into a state of barbarism.
I had now arrived at my seventeenth year, and had attained my
Ifull height, a fraction over six feet.
                                         was well endowed with youthful

energy, and was of an extremely sanguine temperament. At this period

of life all things seem possible if you have once made up your mind to

conquer, and not to allow any temporary disappointments to weaken

your resolution. The opportunity to put this beautiful theory to the

proof was about to be afforded to me, for my father had resolved to
Iremove his business to London, when
                                         should have to change my

solitary country life, which had so many irresistible charms, for a totally
Idifferent one.
                 should see for the first time the great metropolis, about
Iwhich had heard so much but knew so little.
IOn March 4th, 1830, arrived in London, where a new world seemed
Iopened to me.
                 was overwhelmed with wonder and astonishment ; all

the ideal scenes in the "Arabian Nights," which had held me spellbound

in my native village, were as nothing to the ceaseless panorama which

London presented, with its thousands of vehicles and pedestrians, its

gorgeous shops and stately buildings, and its endless miles of streets
                       I was never tired of walking about, for every
and numerous squares.

turn presented some new object to rivet my attention ; and in this way
I Ipassed my first week's residence in London.
                                                usually returned home

in the evening, greatly tired and worn out, only to go forth on the

morrow to make new explorations and again lose myself in those endless

labyrinths of streets ; and yet, with all the delight inspired by the

novelty of the scene, there was one thing strange to me, and sadly
I I Iwanting.
felt that              was alone ; no one knew me.  never met, in

Iall this excited rush, one human countenance that could recognise, or

a friendly face to smile and give a passing salutation as in my old

home : where the little children on their way to school would drop a
                              EARLY DAYS IN LONDON

curtsy and leave me the best side of the path, while the farm-labourer
                                           me " Good                                "
at his cottage door would     give                    morning,  Master  Henry
                                                                                   !

IAll this had passed away for ever, and here amidst the countless
thousands  stood alone, as much uncared for as the lamp-post beside
I Ime. How often thought, in those early days in London, "Shall ever
Ibe known here ? Shall ever have the pleasure of seeing a smile of

recognition light up the face of any person in these ceaseless streams of

unsympathetic strangers?"                  The thought made me very sad, and at
times sigh for the old home ; but it has been truly said that " hope

Isprings eternal in the human breast," and so found the advantage of
Imy sanguine temperament. " Why,"          asked myself, " instead of pining
Iafter the old associations of my native village, should not strive to
Itmake a name for myself, even in this mighty London ?
                                                                        is not

                                                      and at least will make
impossible, for many others have done      I
                                             I
the effort." Such reflections as these enabled me to settle down again,
                                                    it,
and resume my old home occupations.
                                                      II I
       knew full well that laboured under the great disadvantage of
I
             I

                                        a

                     I
not having been brought up to any regular trade or profession, but, on

the other hand, felt          consciousness that Nature had endowed me

with an inventive turn of mind, and perhaps more than the usual

amount of persistent perseverance, which thought                might be able to

use to advantage.                          had met with an Italian, who

      In the course of my ramblings

had shown me several boxes full of plaster casts of the most beautiful

medallions real gems of art at one penny a-piece.               selected number
       I                                                                a
                    ;
                                                                              I
                           a
of them with the intention of casting them in metal, an occupation in

which      took               deep interest at that time. But the moulding and

casting of more intricate objects had even a much greater charm, and

began to try my hand on the reproduction in metal of natural objects,

both vegetable and animal. For this purpose the article to be cast was

immersed in semi-fluid composition, of which plaster-of-Paris formed
           a

the base. The mould was gradually dried and then made red-hot, and

the object was thus destroyed. An opening into the mould on one side
allowed the ashes to be removed, and gave entrance for the metal of
which the object was to be formed. In this way rosebud or other
                                                      a
                                                                                c
10 HENRY BESSEMER

flower, with its stalk and leaves, could be produced ; but, alas ! the

whole of those thin, delicate leaves were destroyed in attempting to

break away the mould. Some of the fragments were exquisitely

beautiful, but no entire cast could be obtained.

All sorts of schemes were tried, and tried in vain, until, when on
Ithe eve of abandoning the whole affair as impossible,
                                                        hit upon the

happy idea of using unburned blue-lias limestone ground to a fine powder.
This, and the dust of Flanders brick, with a small quantity of plaster-

of-Paris, formed the mould ; the destruction of the succulent vegetable,

by making the mould red-hot, had also the effect of burning the

limestone portion of the composition, while the brickdust served to

destroy much of the cohesive strength of the plaster- of-Paris, the

hardness of which had proved so great an obstacle in extricating the

casting. When the mould had cooled down, all that was required to

get out the casting was to apply cold water to    ; it,when the burnt lime
slaked, became hot, and fell away from the cast.
                                                           II aA sharp jet of water

from a tap on the main service sufficed to wash out all the small               a

particles from the deep recesses, and liberate the casting perfect and

unbroken.    prepared for this purpose an alloy of antimony, iron,
             I

                                     it
bismuth, and tin, and in all cases made the mould with a very tall

gate or runner, keeping                  red-hot for half an hour after the metal

was poured into it. In this way the static pressure of the metal

which remained fluid forced the air slowly but surely through the pores
of the mould, and occupied every minute cavity so that the fine pile
on the back of a leaf and the tiny prickles on the stem of rose were

all produced as sharp as needle-points.
       The love of improvement, however, knows no bounds or finality.

Beautiful as these representations of nature were, there was one great
drawback which still desired to surmount. They were only white metal,
             I
and were sometimes looked upon as merely "lead castings."*I                      therefore

attempted to cast them in brass or yellow metal, but this found was

impossible.  then conceived the idea of coating them with deposit

of copper from an acid solution of that metal. Many were the trials

             * Vide Dr. Ure's Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mining
                  ART CASTINGS                   H

Iand failures in these attempts, but after a time made more suitable

solutions, and found out how to cleanse the surfaces of the delicate
Iobjects without injuring them ; and finally
                                                 succeeded in getting a

beautiful thin coating of copper on every part of the surface. The

castings were simply laid on the bottom of a shallow zinc tray, and a

saturated solution of sulphate and of nitrate of copper, in certain

proportions, was poured into the bath, which resulted in producing a thin

coating of bright metallic copper over the entire surface of the castings,

Iso that no suspicion could be entertained as to the metal of which they

were really formed. In the case of medallions sometimes put into the

solution some crystals of distilled verdigris, which produced a good

imitation of antique bronze. Several specimens of these bronzed medals

and copper-coated castings of natural objects were exhibited by me at

Topliss' Museum of Arts and Manufactures, which at that time occupied

the present site of the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square. Among the

Ithings exhibited there were a basso-relievo of one of the cartoons of

Raphael, a large medallion head of St. Peter, and several smaller casts
Iof medals.
             also exhibited a group of three prawns lying on a large

grape-vine leaf, a moss-rose bud with leaves, and a beautiful piece of

Scotch kale, the intricate convolutions of which appeared to all who saw

it a thing impossible either to mould or cast, but which was nevertheless

a comparatively easy one, because this vegetable leaf is very thick and

succulent, and consequently leaves scarcely any ash in the mould when

burned.

    I may mention that various devices were tried to get rid of the fine

ash resulting from the burned vegetable matter.

       Sometimes small passages open to the outer air were left in the mould,

and into these a blast of air was blown to assist the combustion and

destruction of the vegetable matter while still in a red-hot state. At

other times the mould, when cooled down, was filled with a strong solution

of nitre, which saturated the dried vegetable matter. The remainder

of the fluid was then poured out and the mould again made red-hot, whenit,
the nitre, causing complete combustion, reduced the contents to a fine
white ash. When the mould had again cooled down, the ash so
formed was floated out of by pouring mercury in and well shaking it.
12 HENRY BESSEMER

111 fact, the treatment resorted to for cleansing the mould had to be
adapted, in each case, to the nature of the object to be destroyed and
got rid of.

    I Ihad a strong belief that the mode have described, of reproducing

the most delicate and, at the same time, the most intricate vegetable forms,
might be utilised by botanists, and other collectors, in remote or solitary
places, from whence the transmission of such objects in their natural state

would be impossible. It would be perfectly easy for the botanist to take

abroad with him a few tin cans filled with the dry powdered materials
required for his moulds, ready to be mixed with water at a moment's

notice. A number of small cardboard boxes, painted in oil colour so

as to render them waterproof, and fitting inside each other, would enable
him to choose one suitable in size, for any particular specimen to be
moulded in. He would have nothing to do but to mix with water a small
quantity of his prepared plaster, place the delicate fungus, lichen, or other
specimen, in the bottom of the box, and pour in the semi-fluid mixture,
filling the box, and gently tapping its sides and bottom to ensure the
penetration of the fluid matter into every interstice of the specimen.

In less than a quarter of an hour, he would find in his fragile little box

a hard, solid, square mass, in which the specimen would be safely embedded,

where it might remain uninjured for any necessary period, and then be
burnt out, and the object reproduced in metal. An absolutely perfect
copy of nature's most beautiful work, in an indestructible material, would
thereby be obtained by a minimum of labour and cost.

    I made many attempts to impress the importance of these facts
Ion some of the managers of the British Museum, with whom had several

interviews, but all to no purpose ; and so the whole thing dropped, and

I had all my trouble in vain.
    IReturning from this digression, may state that the site occupied

by Topliss' Museum was required for the erection of the present National

Gallery.* A museum was, however, erected in Leicester Square, where

the Panopticon was subsequently built, and it was to this new home that
my specimens of casting were removed.

                                                      * Opened April, 1838
I OF THF
   UNIVERSITY
                     OF
PLATE I.

   o

         Hh^
       M3

    ocHi
PLATE IT.

          OoHi

                <M
                 ts
            COPPER-COATED MEDALLIONS                          13

IAbout the year 1836 made the acquaintance of Dr. Ure, author

I Iof the well-known Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mining, and of
him can only speak with affectionate regard.  had sought his assistance

Iin some analyses, and after several interesting interviews he furnished

me with the information desired, and seemed to take so much interest

Iin me that was induced to give him a short sketch of my isolated country
I Ilife. described to him my love of experiments in casting, and how made

use of the continued statical pressure of a high column of metal, retained

in a fluid state for a considerable time, in a red-hot mould. He was

much interested in my founding operations, and generously declined to

Itake any fee for the analysis he had made for me, saying, if wanted

any further analyses he would be happy to do them for me.     Needless
Ito say how pleased and grateful                              kindness,
                                  felt for his disinterested

and the encouragement which his appreciation gave me.

      With the exception of three or four samples still remaining in my

possession, all these beautiful castings have been sold or given away many

years ago.
IAmong those still have is one of the cartoons of Raphael, repre-
senting the " Woman taken in Adultery," a plaster-of-Paris copy of which
I bought for a few pence from an itinerant Italian. It was fairly sharp
Iand perfect in detail, and
                             planed some strips of type-metal into an
Iornamental moulding, so as to form a frame around it.
                                                              then made

a mould from it as framed, and took a cast in a white metal alloy, which

I afterwards coated with a thin film of copper, in the manner already

described.

     It is now in much the same condition as it was when cast, with the

exception of the loss of the more prominent features, caused by the

Icontinued rubbing and dusting of the housemaid or rather, may say,

of a succession of housemaids, who during the last sixty-four years have

gradually wiped away, not only the copper film from the projecting parts,

but a noticeable quantity also of the soft metal of which it is made : as will

be at once seen on examining the photographic reproduction, Fig. 1,
Plate I., which is a full-sized representation of it.

    I also give, in Fig. 2, Plate II., a copy of an oval medallion, the

numerous figures on which were originally very sharp and perfect, but
14 HENRY BESSEMER

it has suffered somewhat by rubbing and dusting from time to time

during these many years.

These medallions were, as Dr. Ure says in his article on Electro-
IMetallurgy, simply used as " mantel-piece ornaments," and
                                                                                         doubt not
Ithat this oval medallion was one of those had. shown to him in 1836,
Iand had made in 1832 when was about nineteen years of age. This

perfect casting was, like the cartoon, coated with a thin film of copper,

giving it the appearance of being cast in that metal.

                           ELECTRO-METALLURGY.                                           629

rounded by a cylinder of zinc, and then introduced into another vessel (a wooden tub
for instance) containing   dilute sulphuric acid. The earthen vessel is intended         to con-
tain the solution of gold  or silver, and is furnished with a web of copper wire,         which

is made to communicate with the zinc by means of one or more conducting wires. The
objects to be gilt or silvered are placed upon the net-work. The earthen vessel contain-
ing a zinc cylinder, and some hydrochloric acid, is introduced into another vessel, con-
taining the solution of gol,d or silver, placed in the centre of a wire web partition,
which communicates with 'the zinc cylinder by means of a conducting wire. In the
first case, the articles which are to receive the thickest coating are placed nearest the
outer sides of the apparatus; in the second, nearest to the earthen vessel : in both cases
it is advisable to shift their position occasionally. By combining these different

arrangements, the deposit obtained is more abundant, and more equally distributed

upon the surface to be gilded or to be silvered. For this purpose an opening is made
in the centre, of the web in which the tine cylinder is inserted, with connecting wires
to the web. When the articles to be operated upon can be easily suspended from a
given point, the web of the apparatus may be made with wider meshes, and the articles
suspended vertically between them. Dr. Philipp prefers a single galvanic arrangement
to a battery, as it affords more solid
                                        deposition.         art perfectly  exact copies  of any
   ELECTRO-METALLURGY.                     By this elegant
object can be made in copper, silver, gold, and some other metals, through the agency
of voltaic electricity. The earliest application of this kind seems to have teen prac-
tised about 16 years ago, by Mr. Bessemer, of Camden Town, London, who deposited
a coating of copper on lead castings, so as to produce antique heads in relief, about 3
or 4 inches in size. He contented himself with forming a few such ornaments for his
                                made no secret of his purpose,
mantelpiece;  and though    he  22d of May, 1839, written by    he published nothing upon
the subject.  A letter of  the
                                                                Mr. J. C. Jordan, which ap-
peared in the Mechanics' May. for June 8, following, contains the first printed notice of the

manipulation requisite for obtaining electro-metallic casts; and to this gentleman, there-
fore, the world is indebted for the first discovery of this new and important application

of science to the uses of life. It appears that Mr. Jordan had made his experiments in
the preceding summer, and having become otherwise busily occupied, did not think of
publishing till he observed a vague statement in the Journals, that Professor Jacobi, of
St. Petersburg, had done something of the same kind. Mr. Jordan's apparatus consisted

FIG. 3.' ..EXTRACT PROM DR. URE'S DICTIONARY, "ELECTRO-METALLURGY"

When the Doctor published a supplement to his Dictionary in

1846, he referred to these medallion castings, under the head of "Electro-
Metallurgy," as having to his knowledge been cast in " lead " (sic) and

coated with copper, about ten years previously : that                      is,           about five or

six years prior to the discovery of the electrotype process, by Jacobi

of St. Petersburg, Jordan of London, and Spencer of Liverpool. This

process was afterwards perfected by Dr. Wright, and Messrs Elkington,
"LOST WAX" CASTINGS                              15

of Birmingham, to whose joint labours we owe the practical development

Iof the beautiful art of Electro-Metallurgy, to which had " approached
Iwithin measurable distance," but of which had nevertheless failed to

recognise the full importance, excepting as a means of producing artificial

bronzes by coating the cheaper white metal castings, as is now largely

practised in France, in imitation of bronze for clocks, etc. In order that

there shall be no misapprehension as to what Dr. Ure has said on the

Isubject, give on the opposite page a photographic reproduction of the

upper part of page 629 (Electro-Metallurgy), in the Fourth Edition of his

Dictionary, published by Longman, Brown, Green and Longman, the

title-page of which bears date 1853. This extract clearly shows that

I practised the art of depositing copper from an acid solution of that

metal on the surface of ornamental castings, several years before we had

any known or published account of that process.
IIt is quite true, as the Doctor states, that
                                                 kept some of these

medallions as ornaments on my mantel-piece, where three of them may

be found at this very day ; but Dr. Ure appears to have forgotten, or

possibly was unaware of the existence of, the beautiful specimens of

Inatural objects cast in white metal and coated with copper, which

exhibited in Trafalgar Square, and afterwards in Leicester Square,

and which had the effect of bringing me in contact with several large

business firms, and in one case resulted in the development of an entirely

new and important branch of the Utrecht velvet manufacture, to which

I shall have occasion hereafter to refer.
       There is yet another description of casting known as the " lost wax "

Iprocess, which was at that time practised in France ; and was anxious,

if possible, to acquire this art, as it seemed to offer greater facility for

obtaining white metal casts of busts and statuettes from wax models that

were cast in plaster-of-Paris moulds. To the metal casting so obtained,

the appearance of real bronze could be imparted by depositing a green
copper coating thereon. By doing this the " lost wax " process need

not have been confined, as it then was, to the production of original works

of art modelled in wax ; and the effect would have been to immensely

facilitate the multiplication of copies of the highest examples of classic

art, by simply obtaining thin wax casts of them, in lieu of the plaster
16 HENRY BESSEMER

casts sold so cheaply in the streets by itinerant Italians.  The loss

of the wax model so produced forms only a very small part of the cost

of the process.

     All persons conversant with the ordinary mode of casting a bust

or statuette must be aware that the mould is formed of a great number

of small pieces, more or less perfectly fitted together, and that the metal

in casting will run into all the minute joints or cracks which lie between

the numerous parts of which the mould is composed, forming little ribs
or " fins," which cross the face and other portions whereon the talent

of the artist who prepares the model is chiefly expended. The removal
of these ribs or fins, with chisels or files, must be done by a workman

after the cast is made, and this greatly interferes with the delicate

touches of the artist, and not unfrequently mars his work. In the

" lost wax " process, the artist may put on his finest touches, may
" undercut " as much as he pleases, or form intricate hollows to any

extent, which he could not do if the mould had to be made in pieces ;

when the model is complete in wax, a mould can be made over it in one
piece, after which the wax original is melted out or " lost." Molten

metal is then poured into the space previously occupied by the wax,

and a cast is produced, absolutely identical with the model. Every

delicate touch of the artist is there, free from the fins and ribs so

inseparable from casts made in a mould which is built up in pieces. But

here lies the difficulty and great risk of this process. The artist's model

is irretrievably destroyed, and if a bad casting should result, all his

labour is lost.

    IHow well remember the heartbreaking disappointments that beset

all my early attempts to cast from the lost wax in plaster-of-Paris
         IFor this was the very great desideratum for which
moulds.                                                      was

striving. The plan was to first carefully dry the massive plaster envelope
in which the wax model was embedded, and then to put it into a

stove heated sufficiently to melt the wax, which, if the mould was

inverted, would run out.

The difficulty in obtaining a good casting arose from the plaster

mould absorbing a small portion of the wax during the melting process,

so that when the molten metal was poured into the mould, the wax so
                   DIES FOR STAMPING CARDBOARD                                                                           17

absorbed and retained in its pores was converted into gas, which bubbled

up through the metal, and made a most unsound and imperfect casting.
IOver and over again essayed to prevent this result, but all to no
I Ipurpose, and almost gave it up in despair.
                                                pondered over many

schemes to remedy this defect, when at last it occurred to me that

there was only one way that must succeed. Plaster-of-Paris very quickly
sets, and gets hard and firm while it is quite saturated with water ; and

Iit seemed probable that if kept the mould in this saturated condition

instead of drying  the melted wax could not be absorbed by it. After
I

         it it,
              it

                           a

                                                                                     it

                                                                                                                               a
several trials found advisable to render the wax a little more fusible

by the addition to of small quantity of animal fat, and then was

quite easy to melt out the wax by simply immersing the mould in

caldron filled with boiling water. The wax was melted by the heat of

the water, and floated up to the surface, allowing the water to take its

place. As soon as the melted wax ceased to rise to the surface the

mould was taken out of the bath, emptied of the water which had

taken the place of the melted wax, and slowly dried after this
                   it

                             a
                                 a

                                                                                                                      ;
its temperature was raised to point sufficiently high to allow the

metal to be retained in in fluid state for some time, thus ensuring

a perfect cast. By this simple device there was no absorption of the

wax, and consequently no gas produced in the mould, and no longer

any fear that the model would be lost without getting a perfect cast in

return.                                produced in this way, and

     A fine bust of Shakespeare which
                   I
                             a
                                                     a

                                       I

                                                                  a

                                                                                                             ;

                                                                                           it
coated with copper, was purchased of me by an eminent sculptor, who

saw in this simple plan means of getting faithful copies of his works

uninjured by the chipping and filing of a mere mechanic. Indeed, was

finally arranged that should cast for him bust of the Hon. George

Canning, for which he had received commission but, unfortunately,

while engaged in modelling this bust, he was seized with a sudden illness

which terminated fatally, and the work was never completed.

     My attention was at this period directed to the production of

castings suitable for stamping ornamental scroll-work, medallions, and

basso relievos in cardboard. This was much more difficult subject to deal
                   in
                                                    a

                                                                                                                     a
with than casting  white-metal alloys, and required moulds of quite

                                                                                                               D
18 HENRY BESSEMER

different character. It was, however, mainly a question of mixing metals

so as to produce great hardness, while absolutely free from brittleness,

and in this manner to obtain an alloy that would melt at a comparatively

low temperature, and run very fluid in the mould. All of these conditions

to their fullest extent could not be combined in any one alloy ; but after

Ia few months expended in making a systematic series ot experiments,

succeeded in obtaining a die metal that pretty closely approximated to
Iall the desired requirements, and  also found a " facing " for the moulds,

which stood the heat of these hard alloys without suffering any destructive
Iaction or the formation of surface cracks.
                                             could thus form moulds

Icapable of taking an impression of the finest and most delicate lines,

and in these succeeded in casting many works of art in brass.

    IAfter a certain amount of practice, produced a great many very

beautiful dies, from which thousands of fine sharp impressions were made.

I erected a powerful " fly-press " for stamping impressions from these

dies, and thus achieved what was in reality my first commercial work.

It will be easy to imagine my delight on securing a first order for

500 copies on buff-coloured cardboard of a beautiful basso-relievo of

one of the cartoons of Raphael, from Messrs. Ackerman, the well-known

Iart publishers. These impressions cost me only threepence each, including

the material, and found a ready sale for them at half-a-crown, when

taken in wholesale quantities. They must still exist in many families,

for hundreds were stamped in leather on the covers of a beautifully got-

up quarto edition of the Bible, the cartoon chosen being the one in

which Raphael represents Our Saviour giving the keys to St. Peter.

I also made a great many dies in this way for bookbinders, cardboard-

box manufacturers, etc., thus turning to commercial account the art of
I"fine-casting," which had heretofore only practised as an amusement.
IA year or so previously, 1831,
                                    made the acquaintance of a
IMr. Richard Cull, then a youth about my own age, who, when last

heard of him, had become a noted philologist and a member of the

Antiquarian Society. My friend Cull was a great admirer of these

beautiful cast dies, and we very nearly entered into a deed of partnership,

with the intention of carrying on this business on a greatly extended

scale ; but for some reason or other this intention was never carried out.
                 CHAPTEE II

                 THE EEWAED OF INVENTION

I"YTTHILE this die-making and stamping business was going on, had

discovered another and distinctly different mode of making, from

an embossed paper stamp, dies which were capable of reproducing
Ithousands of facsimile impressions.
                                      at once saw to what a dangerous

result this discovery might lead if made known to unscrupulous persons,

Iand hence carefully guarded the secret, which was, in fact quite useless

to me, and might soon have been forgotten had not my attention been

directed by some accidental circumstance to the fact that the forgery
of stamps to an alarming extent was known by the Government to have

been practised.

One of these sources of fraud was the removal from old and

useless parchment deeds of stamps, which were again stuck on to
new skins of parchment. Thinking over this subject, it struck me that
a stamp might be made which it would be impossible to transfer from

one deed to another, and at the same time would be much more difficult

to produce by the stamping press ; while it would be impracticable to

obtain from it a die that would be capable of reproducing the stamp.

This appeared to me to be a most important invention, and one that
I Iconceived it would be impolitic for the Government to reject ;
I Isupposed that
                 should be handsomely rewarded if brought it under
Ithe notice of the authorities.
                                 felt the more certain of success because
I was able to show that their ordinary receipt and bill stamps, as well

as the blue paper adhesive stamps on parchment deeds, could be forged

by any office-boy, who could make a die from a paper stamp for a few

pence, wholly without talent or technical knowledge.
IThus confident of success,
                                 set to work to make a die for parch-

ment deeds on my new plan, for the time putting aside and neglecting
20 HENRY BESSEMER

everything else, for this grand project was to make my fortune at once.

After providing myself with a suitable press and experimenting with

Idifferent forms of cutting punches, decided on a plan. Having worked

for some months, making long days which not unfrequently extended

Ito the early hours of the morning, the task was finished, and prepared

some specimens to take with me to Somerset House.

With the idea of showing that there was no escape from the adoption
Iof my new plan, thought it advisable to make a die from a genuine
IGovernment stamp. For this purpose,
                                      obtained a dozen ordinary

embossed bill stamps, and from one of them made a die, and stamped
Iabout as many impressions with it as had real stamps.
I Imight be able to prove that these were forged ones,  In order that

                                                         stamped the

impressions on a large sheet of paper, and then cut out a slip from it

I Iwith a slightly indented edge, but otherwise of the same form and size
as those had purchased.   may mention that the Stamp Office presses

Iwere so constructed that they could not put a stamp in the middle of
a large sheet of paper, and hence  was enabled to prove that these

Iparticular stamps, with their slightly-indented edges, did not emanate
from the Stamp Office.   made up a small parcel containing six genuine
Istamps and six of those
                          had myself made, and also the sheets of
Ipaper from the centre of which they had been cut. With these also

enclosed a few impressions of my new parchment stamp. The old form

of Government stamps is illustrated in Fig. 4, Plate III., while Fig. 5

illustrates my perforated stamp. Below is shown a system introduced a

Ifew years ago for cancelling cheques and other documents.

      Full of hope and high expectation, started off one morning to call
Ion Sir Charles Presley, the then President of the Stamp Office.
                                                                  had,
Iup to this moment, kept all my plans and what was doing a profound

secret. The whole affair seemed to my overwrought imagination almost

like a skilful plot, such as we see depicted on the stage or read of in

Ia sensational novel ; and had, like the hero of the piece, only to walk

into Somerset House and accept unconditional surrender.

    IOn my way to the scene of my intended conquest passed up

IFarringdon Street, and went into a fruiterer's shop at the corner of the

New Market to buy an orange. How vividly still remember this trifling
                                                                                  PLATE III.

                                                                FIG. 4.
       The above is an example of an ordinary impressed stamp as now daily issued by
the Stamp Office. The figures 21, 1, and 79, each in their respective circles, show the
system of dating stamps communicated to Sir Charles Presley in 1833.

                                                                FIG. 5.
       The above impression represents the Bessemer perforated stamp approved by
the Stamp Office officials. The black portions show the perforations which were
made by the die in a manner similar to the perforated word CAXCBLLED, below.

Mr.  This word "cancelled" shows a mode of       perforating paper introduced by
                                                used in banks and public offices.
     J. Sloper a few years ago, and now much

'No fraudulent ingenuity can efface this mark.
                   FORGED RECEIPT STAMPS (1833)                       21

I Iincident in all its details.
                              ate my orange as went jauntily up Fleet
IStreet, thinking of nothing but how
                                               should introduce the subject,
I Iwhat they would say, and how should go through the ordeal had

I Ito face, on the results of which depended all my dearest earthly hopes.

Had not in the silent hours of night, when was pursuing my experi-

ments, and wearily working at these new dies, told myself triumphantly :
If IA" few more weeks will seal the fate of my whole life.
                                                              succeed in

saving the Government so much revenue, they must liberally reward me.
I shall then establish myself in a new home, and marry the young lady
I Ito whom have for two years been engaged."
                                               had needed no stronger

Iincentive to urge me onward as the lonely hours of night found me engaged
in the laborious work of making these dies.    now felt that the task
Iwas over, and that was well on the road to my reward ; but suddenly
Imy day-dream came to an end, for just as approached Temple Bar
I I Idiscovered that was not in possession of my parcel of stamps.
                                                                      was

staggered for a moment, and a cold perspiration seemed to break out
I Iall over me.
                   felt faint and alarmed, for in a second began to fully
Irealise the fact that
                        had actually been possessed of forged stamps,
Iand had left them on the counter of the shop where had bought the

orange. The little paper parcel was not sealed. What if curiosity had

caused it to be looked into and handed over to the police? It was

I Ibut a momentary hesitation, for knew well that was innocent of
Iall intentional wrong, though perhaps not technically so, and hastened

Iback with all speed to the fruiterer's shop.
      " Did you,"  asked, " see a small parcel left here  by me half an
            "                                             shelf, thinking
hour  ago                              I" put it on the
           ?

      " Oh, yes, sir," was the reply.

you would come back for it."
      IHow gladly
                                               and felt that was now safe,
      I            once more grasped
                            ;
               I
                                a
                     Ia
                                   I
                                                                 it,
                                               if I
                                                    I aI
                                                           I
even from a momentary suspicion.       own that was little crestfallen

and unnerved but sharp walk soon restored my confidence, and        entered
                                                                    succeed
Somerset House with firm step and full faith that should            Charles

in my mission.     was admitted into the private office of Sir

Presley, and said that desired him to tell me a dozen receipt stamps,

which handed him, were genuine. He looked at them attentively with
22 HENRY BESSEMER

a large magnifying glass, and laid two aside which he thought were not
I Igenuine. As far as can remember exactly what passed,
                                                         said there
were more forgeries among them, when he enquired, " How do you

know that?"
I Ianswered : " Simply because
                                forged them myself."
    I Icould not quite suppress a smile as said this somewhat triumphantly,
Iand distinctly remember his severe frown, as he said : " Young man, you

treat this subject with a great deal of levity."

    I at once apologised, and assured him that my object was solely

Ito prevent all future forgery of stamps, and that had ventured to test

his experienced eye in order that he might himself appreciate the full

danger to the State if my system were publicly known ; unless, indeed,

some remedy could be suggested for the prevention of further forgery.

As my scheme was unfolded he gradually relaxed that severe expres-

sion of countenance which plainly evinced that he felt annoyed at being

tricked by a youth in so bold a manner, and the importance he evidently

Iattached to my communication was manifested by his request that would

call again in a few days.                             brought before

    I Imay here briefly state that one of the plans

the Stamp Office authorities was adopted by them, and has been to this

Iday employed as a security against forgery on every stamp issued by the

Stamp Office during the last half century ; but was nevertheless pushed

from pillar to post, and denied all remuneration for the important services
I Ihad rendered.
                  was too busy making my way in life at this period
Ito press any legal claims on the Government.
                                               had no friend at Court,
Iand had to bear this shameful treatment as best could ; and so, this

matter of the stamps sunk gradually into oblivion until the year 1878,

when my angry feelings against the Government were again excited by
their refusal to allow me to accept the Grand Cross of the Legion

of Honour, which the French Government desired to present me with,

provided that the British Government would permit me to wear it.

The failure of all attempts to get this permission aroused my just

indignation, and I, as so many aggrieved persons have done before me,

and doubtless will do again, wrote a letter to The Times. As this

Iletter has played a not-unimportant part in my life's history, think it
           LETTER TO LORD BEA.CONSFIELD (1878)                                        23

desirable to insert it in this place, although it is not in the
chronological order of events.

    I Imay, however, say that no sooner saw this letter in print than

it occurred to me that an ex parte statement of so grave a character
against the Government in general, and some of its officials in particular,
demanded at my hands some documentary or other proof of the truth

Iof the statements thus publicly made, and that ought to lay the whole

matter before the Government of the day in justice to myself. With

Ithis object determined to address myself to our then Prime Minister,

Lord Beaconsfield, and also to furnish printed copies of this communication
to each of the other Ministers of State. The following is a verbatim
copy of a portion of these communications, as well as of my letter

to The Times :

           To THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OP BEACONSFIELD.
                                                                       Denmark Hill,

MY LORD,                                                         November 16th, 1878

                   Under a feeling of some irritation, excited by recent events in connection with

Ithe Paris Exhibition, felt impelled to relieve my mind of a long-suppressed grievance which

my excessive dislike to controversy has hitherto prevented me from making public.

    IUnder these circumstances addressed a letter to The Times on the "Keward of Invention,"

which was published in that journal on the 1st November, 1878, a verbatim copy of which

is embodied in this communication, and, as you will see, brings a very grave charge against
Isome of the executive of a former Government; and, after perusing it in print,
                                                                                      saw at
Ionce that it was due to my own honour, and but fair to the Government, that should

bring forward some evidence in corroboration of the serious allegations therein contained,

the more so as the public press have warmly espoused my cause, and commented in not
Ivery measured terms on the treatment
                                       had received at the hands of the Government of

that day.

No sooner, however, did the desirability of such corroborative evidence present itself
Ito my mind than took the necessary measures to acquire it ; and notwithstanding the length of
Itime that has elapsed since these events took place,
                                                       have succeeded in obtaining the most

unimpeachable testimony in support of the charge brought by me against the British Stamp
IOffice ; but prior to bringing these proofs before the public, have deemed it a duty which
I owe, alike to myself and to the State, to bring the whole subject under the individual attention
Iof each one of Her Majesty's present Cabinet Ministers ; hence
                                                                 have forwarded a copy

of this letter separately addressed to each of them.

I As far as my experience of the great commercial transactions of this country extends,
   have found that in every instance where a firm takes in a new partner, and in every change

of the directors of a railway, bank, or other public institution, all those who have been

elected to administer these great establishments have ever held inviolate the engagements
24 HENRY BESSEMER

Iof those whose position they have been called upon to occupy ; nor can for one moment doubt

but that Her Majesty's Ministers will feel themselves equally bound in honour, if not to

carry out the letter of the engagements entered into with me by their predecessors, at least

to make such reparation and acknowledgment of my services to the State as will be both
Isatisfactory to me and honourable to themselves, for
                                                       cannot believe it possible that my

just claims will be repudiated by the British Government, and that its present Ministers will

plead the Statute of Limitations as a sufficient bar to them ; for this, after all, would be

but to reduce it to a simple debt of honour, a form of obligation which it has ever been
Ithe pride of Englishmen to regard as their most sacred bond; and you will,
                                                                                 hope, pardon
I Ime when confess that cannot but coincide in the opinion so pithily expressed at the
close of a leader in an influential journal,* viz., that " The Eulers of the State at the present

day must be held to have inherited the responsibility of rendering to Mr. Bessemer the

reward of the services by which they and the country have so largely profited."

In order that you may fully understand and appreciate the value of the evidence which
I Ihave the honour to lay before you,
                                       must beg the favour of your perusal of my letter
on the " Eeward of Invention," in which you will find a detailed account of my transactions

with the Stamp Office, and on which my present claims are based.

The following is a verbatim copy of that letter :

                     THE REWARD OP INVENTION.

                     To the Editor of The Times.

SIR,

      The letter which you favoured me by publishing last week in relation to the

refusal of our Government to allow the Grand Cross to be accepted by our countrymen,

has elicited many kindly and sympathising expressions from private correspondents; but
I Ito the mind of one gentleman
                                    appear to have written "with some bitterness." Now,

may plead guilty to such feeling whenever my memory is driven back by force of circumstances

to a period when the Government of this country inflicted on me a great and grievous

injustice in exchange for a great and permanent benefit conferred by me on the State.

Perhaps nothing would tend so much to dispel this morbid feeling as a brief recital of
Ithe circumstances to which refer.
IThe facts are briefly these : At the age of seventeen,
                                                         came to London from a small

country village, knowing no one, and myself unknown, a mere cypher in this vast sea of

I Ihuman enterprise. My studious habits and love of invention soon gained for me a footing,

and at twenty found myself pursuing a mode had invented of taking copies from antique

and modern basso-relievos in a manner that enabled me to stamp them on cardboard, thus

Iproducing thousands of embossed copies of the highest works of art at a small cost. The
facility with which  could make a permanent die, even from a thin paper original, capable

of producing a thousand copies, would have opened a wide door to successful fraud if my

process had been known to unscrupulous persons; for there is not a Government stamp or

the paper seal of any corporate body that every common office-clerk could not forge in a

few minutes at the office of his employer or at his own home. The production of a die

from a common paper stamp is the work of only ten minutes ; the materials cost less than

a penny. No sort of technical skill is necessary, and a common copying-press or letter-stamp

yields most successful copies. There is no need for the would-be forger to associate himself

                                    * The Times
                                 THE REWARD OF INVENTION                                       25

with a skilful die-sinker capable of making a good imitation in steel of the original, for the

merest tyro could make an absolute copy on the first attempt. The public knowledge of

Isuch a means of forging would, at that time, have shattered the whole system of the British
Stamp Office, had            been so incautious as to allow a knowledge of my method to escape.

IThe secret has, however, been carefully guarded to this day.            began to consider if some
      No sooner, however, had this fact dawned on me than
Inew sort of stamp could be devised to prevent so serious a mischief. During the time
Iwas engaged in studying this question,
                                               was informed that the Government were themselves

cognisant of the fact that they were losers to a great amount annually by the transfer of

stamps from old and useless deeds to new skins of parchment, thus making the stamps do

duty a second or third time, to the serious loss of the Eevenue. At a later date, this fact

was confirmed by Sir Charles Presley, of the Stamp Office, who told me that he believed

they were defrauded in this way to the extent of probably 100,000 per annum.                   To

fully appreciate the importance of this fact, and realise the facility afforded for this species

of fraud by the system then in use, it must be understood that the ordinary impressed or

embossed stamp, such as is employed on all bills of exchange, if impressed directly on a

skin of parchment, would be entirely obliterated if the deed be exposed for a few months

to a damp atmosphere. The deed would thus appear as if unstamped, and therefore invalid.

To prevent this, it has been the practice as far back as the reign of Queen Anne, to gum

a small piece of blue paper on to the parchment ; and to render it still more secure a strip

of metal foil is passed through  and another piece of paper with the printed initials ofit,
                                            a
the Sovereign           gummed over the loose ends of the foil at the back. The stamp         then
                  a is                                                          a
impressed on the blue paper, which, unlike parchment,
                                                                                         is
                                                       it is  incapable of losing the impression

by exposure to damp atmosphere. But, practically,           has been found that little piece

of moistened blotting-paper applied for whole night so softens the gum that the two pieces

of paper and the slip of foil can be removed from the old deed most easily and applied to

new skin of parchment, and thus be made to do duty second or third time. Thus the
a                                                      a

  Iexpensive stamps on thousands of old deeds of partnership, leases and other documents, when

no longer of value, offered rich harvest to those who were dishonest enough to use them.
                             a

   With     it a  knowledge of these factsI    was enabled to fully appreciate the importance of

any system of stamps that would effectually prevent so great loss to the Government; nor
                                                              a

                                                                    I
                                                                         iIf
did for one moment doubt but that Government would amply reward me            were successful

in so doing. After some months of study and experiment which             cheerfully undertook,

although interfered considerably with the pursuit of my regular business, inasmuch as          a it

was necessary to carry on the experiments with the strictest secrecy, and to do all the work

myself during the night after my people had left work at last            succeeded in making
stamp that satisfied all the necessary conditions. It was impossible to removeI iIf it I
                                                                                 I          from one

                                                                                      I a it
deed and transfer            to another. No amount of damp, or even saturation with water, could
I
obliterate        and        was impossible to take any impression from  capable of producing  a
        it
             it,duplicate.
                      it it
         knew nothing of patents or patent law in those days, and        had for moment

thought     necessary to make any preliminary conditions with Government,       should have

at once scouted the idea as one utterly unworthy. Dealing direct with Government, argued,

must render my interest absolutely secure; and in this full confidence,  wended my way

one fine morning to Somerset House, and was ushered into the presence of the chief, Sir Charles

Presley.    explained the object of my call, and showed him numerous proofs in my possession:
            I
                     I
how easily all his stamps could be forged, and also my mode of prevention. He was greatly

astonished at what had communicated and shown to him, and asked me to call again in

                                                                                E
26 HENRY BESSEMER

I Ia few days, which did, and after further conversation on the subject he suggested that
Ishould work out the principle of my invention more fully. This was only too anxious
Ito do ; and some five or six weeks later, called on him again with a newly-designed stamp,

which greatly pleased him. The design was circular, about 2| inches in diameter, and consisted
of the garter, with the motto in capital letters surrounded by a crown. Within the Garter
was a shield, with the words "Five Pounds." The space between the shield and the Garter

was filled with network in imitation of lace.* The die had been executed in steel, which

had pierced the parchment with more than four hundred holes, each one of the necessary

form to produce its special portion of the design. Since that period, perforated paper has

been largely employed for valentines and other ornamental purposes, but was previously

unknown. It was at once obvious that the transfer of such a stamp was impossible. It

was equally clear that mere dampness could not obliterate it ; nor was it possible to take
any impression from it capable of perforating another skin of parchment.

   The design gave great satisfaction, and everything went on smoothly; Sir Charles again
Iconsulted Lord Althorp, and the Stamp Office authorities determined to adopt it.
                                                                                                                                 was

then askedI          instead of receiving sum of money from the Treasury, should be satisfied
                if,           a

                                  I
                                                I

                                                                           it

                                                                I
                                                                           I

                                                                                                   A
with the position of Superintendent of Stamps, at some 600 or 800 per annum. This

was all     could desire, and great was my rejoicing at the prospect before me, for was at

that time engaged to be married, and my future position in life seemed now assured.                                              few

days after affairs had assumed this satisfactory position, called on the young lady to whom

I  was engaged (now Mrs. Bessemer), and showed her the pretty piece of network which

constituted my new parchment stamp.       explained to her how                                       could never be removed

from the parchment and used again, mentioning the fact that old deeds with stamps on them

dated as far back as the reign of Queen Anne could be fraudulently used, when she at once

said, "Yes, understand this; but surely,  if all the stamps had date put on them they
   I                                                      ?
          aI                                I                                a
could not at future time be used again without detection " This was, indeed,                                                     new light,
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                              a
and confess greatly startled me, but at once said the steel dies used for this purpose can
                              I
have but one date engraved upon them. But after little consideration                                        saw that moveable
                                    ;                 a
                                                            a

                                                                  a

                                                                    it
dates were by no means impossible; and shortly afterwards came into my mind that this

could easily be effected by drilling three holes of about quarter of an inch in diameter in

the steel die, and fitting into each of these openings   steel plug or type with sunk figures

engraved on their ends, giving on one the day of the month, on the next the month of the

year, and on the third circular steel type the last two figures of the year.                                       saw clearly
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                I
that this plan would be most simple and efficient, would take less time and money to inaugurate

than the elaborate plan had devised but must confess that while felt pleased and
                       it, I
proud at the clever and simple suggestion of the young lady, saw also that all my more
                                                        it,

                                                              II
elaborate system of piercing dies, the result of months of study, and the toil of many                                           a

weary and lonely night, was shattered to pieces by and more than half feared to
disturb the decision that Sir Charles Presley had come to as to the adoption of my perforated

stamp but with my strong conviction of the advantages of my new plan felt in honour
   ;                                                                                                        II

bound not to suppress       whatever might be the result. Thus                                   it  was that      soon found

myself again closeted with Sir Charles at Somerset House, discussing the new scheme, which

he much preferred, because he said all the old dies, old presses, and old workmen could be

employed, and there would be but little change in the Office so little, in fact, that no new
                                                          ;

Superintendent of Stamps was required, which the then unknown art of making and using

piercing dies would have rendered absolutely necessary.   After due consideration my first

                       See engraving of this stamp, Fig.                                         Plate III
                     *
                                                                                             5,
                            THE REWARD OF INVENTION                                 27

plan was definitely abandoned by the Office in favour of the dated stamps, with which

everyone is now familiar. In six or eight weeks from this time, an Act of Parliament was

passed calling in the private stock of stamps dispersed throughout the country, and authorising
the issue of the new dated ones.

       Thus was inaugurated a system that has been in operation some forty-five years,* success-

Iffully preventing that source of fraud from which the Kevenue had so severely suffered.

anything like Sir Charles Presley's estimate of 100,000 per annum was correct, this saving

must now amount to some millions sterling; but whatever the varying amount might have

been, it is certain that so important and long-established a system as that in use at the

Stamp Office would never have been voluntarily broken up by its own officials except under

the strongest conviction that their losses were very great, and that the new order of things

would prove an effectual barrier to future fraud.

During all the bustle of this great change, no steps had been taken to instal me in the

office. Lord Althorp had resigned, and no one seemed to have any authority to do anything

Ifor me; all sorts of half promises and excuses followed each other with long delays between,

and gradually saw the whole thing sliding out of my grasp. Instead of holding fast to my

first plan, which they could not have executed without my aid and the special knowledge
I Ihad acquired,
                  had in all the trustfulness of youthful inexperience shown them another
Iso simple that they could put it in operation without any assistance from me.
I I Ito fall back upon.                                                         had no patent
                         could not go to law, even if wished to do so, for      was reminded
Iwhen pressing for mere money out of pocket, that had done all the work voluntarily and
Iof my own accord. Wearied and disgusted,
                                                   at last ceased to waste time in calling
Iat the Stamp Office, for time was precious to me in those days, and felt that nothing but

increased exertions could make up for the loss of some nine months of toil and expenditure.

Thus, sad and dispirited, and with a burning sense of injustice overpowering all other feelings,

I went my way from the Stamp Office, too proud to ask as a favour that which was
Iindubitably my just right ; and up to this hour have never received one shilling or any

kind of acknowledgement  from the British Government. Such has been my reward.

                                                 I am, Sir,

                                                   Your obedient Servant,

Denmark Hill,                                             (Signed) HENRY BESSEMER.
       29th October, 1878.

In all the early stages of the development of my invention for piercing designs on
I Iparchment,
            had depended entirely on my own hands; but when was desired by the
IStamp Office authorities to show how
                                       proposed practically to carry out the invention,
I designed the form of stamp described in my letter to The Times, and which is faithfully

represented by an impression on the fly-leaf at the commencement of this letter ; the

execution of the somewhat elaborate design in steel, represented by this impression, was

entrusted by me to Messrs. Porter and Son, die-sinkers of some eminence, at that time
Icarrying on business in Percival Street, Clerkenwell, and whom
                                                                 had frequently before

employed to re-touch the cast-metal dies used by me for stamping works of art in relief on

cardboard.

Now, in order to obtain positive evidence in corroboration of my letter to The Times
Iof November 1st, it was of paramount importance that
                                                          should find Mr. Porter, if still

                            * Now over seventy years ago
28 HENRY BESSEMER

I Ialive ; had strong hopes of doing so, as had both seen and conversed with him twice

within the last eight or ten years, but had no knowledge of his present residence; failing

Ito obtain this information, resorted to an advertisement in the second column of The Times,

on November 6th and six following days, which happily resulted in Mr. Porter communicating

with me. He knew me well as an old customer of his firm, and reminded me of some

of the more important dies re-touched by him ; in consequence of the extremely novel

character of the piercing die referred to, and the unusually difficult and laborious nature

of the work, consequent on the extreme depth of the engraving, it had been fully impressed

on his memory, and he was enabled at once to recognise the impression given on the fly-leaf

of this letter as a faithful (though somewhat less artistically finished) copy of the piercing
die executed by his firm for me in 1833.*

In order to secure permanently this important evidence, Mr. Porter made, at my

request, a statutory declaration to that effect, his identity being witnessed by a gentleman

of position who had known him intimately for the last thirty-five years. A verbatim

copy of this declaration is appended hereto.

    IThe advertisement referred to induced many persons to whom was known to tender

such information as they might happen to possess in reference to Mr. Porter; one of these
Iletters was from a Mr. Richard Cull, a gentleman with whom
                                                               became personally and

intimately acquainted soon after my first arrival in London, about the year 1831. Being

a man of taste and superior education, he took great interest in my invention for cheaply

reproducing works of art in bas-relief, and during our intimacy of that period he proposed

to join me as partner in the commercial carrying -out of my invention, but this proposition

was never carried into effect.

IMany years had elapsed since           had seen Mr. Cull, during which time he had risen

to the highest eminence as a philologist and a prominent member of the Society of

Antiquarians. Most fortunately, he had happened to see my advertisement for Mr. Porter

in The Times, and having been acquainted in early life with Mr. Porter and his family,

he at once wrote to me on the subject; he had also seen my letter in The Times on the

I"Reward of Invention," and it is to that circumstance, no doubt, that owe the closing

remarks of his letter, of which the following is a verbatim copy, omitting only some irrelevant

family matters lelative to Mr. Porter:

                                        12, Tavistock Street,

                                                        Bedford Square,

                                                               November 9th, 1878.

DEAR MB. BESSEMER,

It is some time since we met, but seeing your advertisement for Mr. Porter,
I Ithe die-sinker, determined to write to inform you what can on the subject.
Ivery good artist, but he failed in business and took a situation in the City ;  He was a
Ivery well, and his family, including his father, mother, and sister             knew him
Imust now be dead, as                                                            think he

                       have not met him for fourteen or fifteen years, and he never

said where he lived after leaving Percival Street.        Sir C. Presley and your

    I remember SEVERAL CONVERSATIONS with you concerning

                                III* See Fig. 5, Plate
                            THE REWARD OF INVENTION                                     29

invention, AT THE  TIME OP YOUR INTERVIEWS  WITH    IHIM.  well  remember  the unfavourable
                   of that official.
Iopinions formed                                      I am,

                                                           Yours very tiuly,

                                                                     (Signed) R. CULL.

IThis letter from a gentleman  had for so many years lost sight of was a most unexpected
Iand spontaneous confirmation of the fact that
                                                    was at the time mentioned in constant

communication with Sir Charles Presley on the subject of my newly-invented stamps, and

Ialso that our conversations at the time had impressed Mr. Cull with "an unfavourable
opinion of that official."  have no doubt but that in our frequent and friendly intercourse
I had complained loudly of the constant evasions with which my claims were met at the

Stamp Office, which must have given rise to this unfavourable impression in the mind of my

friend, and which, it appears, was strongly enough imprinted to survive for so many years,
although the precise reasons for it are no longer distinctly remembered. At my suggestion,

Mr. Cull unhesitatingly made a statutory declaration on the 15th of November embodying

these facts, a verbatim copy of which is appended.
I IIn my letter on the "Reward of Invention,"
                                                      stated that was twenty years of age
                                                                           INow,
when my experiments for the prevention of forgery were commenced.                 was born
Ion the 19th January, 1813, hence
                                   had arrived at twenty years of age in January, 1833.
I Ihave also stated that after some months of study and experiment,
                                                                     succeeded in producing

a stamp which satisfied all the necessary conditions; then follow the intervals between

my several interviews with Sir Charles Presley, and also the five or six weeks occupied by

Mr. Porter in engraving the die, which was accepted by the Stamp Office authorities; and

then came the application to Parliament for an Act to empower the Commissioners of Stamps

to call in all the old stamps and issue new ones in lieu of them. This Act of Parliament,
Iif correctly understood Sir Charles Presley, was hurried through the House in six or
Ieight weeks; it was, in fact, as now find, passed on August 29th, 1833, or just seven
I Imonths and ten days after was twenty years of age; thus, proving how accurate
                                                                                        was

in my statement of the period when these transactions took place, and which family matters

had impressed indelibly on the memory.

    I mentioned also in my letter to The Times that an Act of Parliament was passed

calling in all stocks of stamps dispersed throughout the country, and authorising the issue
Iof the new dated ones.
                            did not know of my own knowledge that such an Act had
Ibeen passed, but perfectly well remember being told so by Sir Charles Presley, because
Iit was an absolute assurance to me that my plans would be adopted ; but
                                                                              relied solely

on Sir Charles Presley's statement to that effect. Hence, when it occurred to me that this
IAct of Parliament would form a most important link in the chain of evidence
Ito establish,                                                                    desired

                must confess to some trepidation lest Sir Charles had misinformed me, or

had spoken only of an Act in the course of passing through Parliament, but which might
Ihave been thrown out and never passed at all ; thus, when
Iobtain, if possible, a copy of the Act in question,             applied to my solicitor to

                                                      was greatly pleased to find that not

Ionly was the statement of Sir Charles Presley (repeated by me in The Times) confirmed,

but found that this Act of Parliament* in its preamble admitted the fact that "the laws

* This Act is the 3rd and 4th of William IV., Chapter 97, dated August 29th, 1833
  30 HENRY BESSEMER

 heretofore enacted, and now in force in Great Britain, have been FOUND INSUFFICIENT TO
 PREVENT THE SELLING AND UTTERING OF FORGED STAMPS ON VELLUM, PARCHMENT, AND PAPER.

        Powers are given under the different sections of this Act to BUY UP AND DESTROY ALL
 STAMPS AND STAMPED PARCHMENTS then in possession of all vendors of stamps throughout the
 country. Full powers are also given to the Commissioners to DISCONTINUE the use of ALL
 DIES HERETOFORE USED in the Stamp Office, and authorising the employment of ANY NEW DIE
 OR DIES, with such DEVICE OR DEVICES as the Commissioners MAY THINK FIT.

       The Act also declares that after three months from that date all stamps previously
issued, or any deeds stamped therewith, shall be deemed to be illegal.

       Then follows a most stringent clause (Section 12), making it felony punishable by
 TRANSPORTATION FOR LIFE BEYOND SEAS, for any person to JOIN, FIX, OR PLACE UPON any
 vellum parchment or paper, any stamp, mark or impression, which shall have been cur,
TORN, OR GOTTEN OFF, OR REMOVED from any vellum, parchment or paper, etc.

        The object of this last clause is clearly to add, by the terrors of a most sweeping and
stringent penal law, to the security which the new stamp was calculated to afford against the
heavy losses which the Government had for so many years sustained by the transfer of
stamps from one deed to another ; and bears evidence, as indeed does the whole document,
of the perfect state of panic into which the Stamp Office was thrown when they fully
realised the extreme facility which my method of making composition dies from any paper
impressions afforded for successfully forging every description of embossed stamp.

      It is almost impossible to realise the spectacle afforded by one of the most conservative

of all the institutions of the State one which has stood its ground for generations suddenly
and without the smallest reserve flinging over every tradition of the past, repudiating all its
former issues, and buying back again from the public all the stamps it could lay hands upon,
for no better purpose than their destruction, and proclaiming by advertisement that their use,
if not brought back, would be illegal ; thus suddenly waking up, as it were, from a long
period of fancied security, and seeking in hot haste powers from the legislature to protect
them by the most severe of all penal laws next to that of death, and asking at the same
time full powers to search all domiciles, shops, warehouses or places, under the mere suspicion
that forged stamps may be concealed there, and to seize all stamps suspected of being
forged; thus showing a not unnatural dread lest the secret of my method of reproducing
embossed impressions might become known, and result in flooding the country with spurious

       Thus does it sometimes happen that the stern realities of life overstep the boldest flights
of imagination. Who in his wildest dreams could have supposed that one of the oldest
departments of the State would be thrown into utter confusion, requiring immediate legislative
action for its security ; that the loss of vast sums annually to the Revenue would be pre-
vented, and that a great temptation and incentive to crime would find a perfect remedy at
the hands of a mere boy and girl ? Such things are of themselves strange enough, but it is
still more extraordinary that the Government of a country which prides itself more than
any other in the civilised world on its simple justice and inviolable honour should have
received so great a boon at the hands of a youth who was struggling hard to create for
himself a position in the world, and who, in the fulness of his unbounded faith in their
honour and integrity, placed unreservedly in their hands the power of doing all this, without
PLATE IV,

                        pq
                     QK
                         O
                                 A TARDY RECOGNITION                                       31

retaining the smallest check on them for his own protection ; and who up to this hour has

never received one iota of the remuneration held out to him as an inducement to persevere

with his invention, or even one word of thanks or acknowledgment of the great and lasting

benefits he has conferred upon the State.
ISuch, then, are the circumstances under which
                                                now come forward to vindicate my

honour, by proving the truth of the statements publicly made through The Times; and to

claim, at the hands of Her Majesty's present Ministers, such payment or acknowledgment of

my past services as may be consistent with the honour and dignity of the State, and at the

same time acceptable to myself.
I Iscarcely need say that
                                 shall at   any time be happy to give personally any further

facts or explanations that may be desired   Iin relation to this matter ; and may further add

that Mrs. Bessemer as well as myself, has a perfect remembrance of the circumstances

connected with her suggestions of the dating on stamps, and which has for more than half

a generation been a sort of tradition in the family, perfectly well known and fully understood

by more than a dozen  of its members.
I have mentioned
Ijudge if              all these facts most unreservedly, that you might be in a position  to
           have not   had substantial grounds for dissatisfaction with the administrators  of

former Governments.
IBut the one and only claim now make has reference to the engagements entered into
Iwith me by the Stamp Office, and in this case
                                                merely ask that a simple act of common

justice may be done, such as in private life the law would compel, and individual character
Iwould render imperative; nor do
                                  doubt for one moment that Her Majesty's present

Ministers, who have so nobly maintained untarnished the honour of the British nation in

every part of the world, will (now they are aware of the fact) most gladly blot out from the
page of history the deep stain on the nation's honour which has been so long recorded in

the annals of the British Stamp Office.      for the length  Ito which     have extended this
                                            thanks for your
      In conclusion, allow me to apologise                   kind perusal  of it; and further

letter, and to offer you my most grateful

allow me the honour to subscribe myself

                                            Your most obedient, humble Servant,

                                                             (Signed) HBNEY BESSEMER.

I Ineed not say how anxious                 was to receive a reply from Lord

Beaconsfield to this rather bold assertion of my claims on the Govern-

Iment, but felt well assured that every enquiry among the still existing

officials at Somerset House could not fail in establishing the justice ot

my demands. These printed letters to Her Majesty's Cabinet Ministers

were posted on May 5th, 1879, and were most courteously acknowledged,

Iand resulted in an investigation being instituted. On May 29th, was

honoured by an autograph reply from Lord Beaconsfield, of which a
photographic copy is here given (Fig. 6, Plate IV.) ; and which clearly
shows that both he and his colleagues were not only satisfied of the
32 HENRY BESSEMER

Itruth of the charges     had made, but were honourable enough to

offer such compensation as they had in their power to bestow, and
Iwhich
        cordially accepted as a full acknowledgment of the services

rendered. The form taken was the more satisfactory to me, inasmuch
as it was a reward in which Mrs. Bessemer would take an equal share

with myself, as she had already done in the invention which had been

Iof such signal service to the State.
On the 21st June          received an intimation  from the Right

Honourable R. A. Cross that Her Most Gracious Majesty had been

pleased to signify her intention of conferring on me the honour of

Knighthood, after the Council which would be held at Windsor Castle,
Ion Thursday, the 26th instant ensuing.
                                         accordingly repaired to

Windsor on that day. One of the royal carriages awaited my arrival
Iat the station, and conveyed me to the Castle, where
                                                       had the

honour of passing through the quaint and interesting ceremony of

kneeling on one knee before Her Majesty, and receiving a gentle blow

across the shoulder from a light and beautifully jewelled sword, and

was commanded to express my gratitude by kissing the hand of Her
                          I afterwards took lunch at the Castle, and
Most Gracious Majesty.

then returned to London.
                  CHAPTER III

COMPRESSING PLUMBAGO DUST ; CASTING TYPE
               TYPE-COMPOSING MACHINE, ETC.

-* IA FTER this long digression  must retrace my steps, forget for a

time all the great doings of the 26th June, 1879, and remember
Ionly, so far as this little personal history is concerned, that
                                                                  was at
Ithe time of which am writing, simply Henry Bessemer, an unknown

youth struggling to get a footing in the world by working with hand

and brain for many hours every day, a task most cheerfully performed. In

Ithose days had one great and paramount object always before me ; one

bright guiding star that kept me from falling into the almost irresistible

temptations which the pleasures and gaieties of London hold out to

every youth of a sanguine temperament who, like myself, happens to

be sole master of his own actions. With no friendly voice to give

counsel, or to guide and regulate my hours of leisure, or check my

wanderings, that one silent but ever-present irresistible control which

the desire to be worthy of, and united to, a beloved object, ever

exercised over me, kept me in the straight path, made my labour

sweet, and almost converted it into an amusement.

     At this period the enthusiasm of the amateur was fast giving way

Ito a more steady commercial instinct, and let no opportunity slip of
I Iimproving my position, but felt that was still labouring under the

disadvantage of not having acquired some technical profession.    With

Ithe exception of my card-embossing and die-making business,        had
Inothing to depend upon, and
                              but too readily allowed my attention

to be directed    to new subjects which always exercised a sort of
fascination over  I Ime ; this tendency found difficult to control, but
invariably made   Imyself believe that as soon as
                                                   could strike some
I"good vein" should work it to its full capacity, and never again be

tempted to turn aside after mere novelties.
34 HENRY BESSEMER

    IJust before had embarked on my luckless Stamp Office enterprise,
I become aware of some curious facts relative to the manufacture of

black lead pencils. The only mine in Great Britain which yields
plumbago, or black lead as it is called, suitable for pencil-making, is
situated in one of the mountains at Borrowdale, in Cumberland, and is
about 1000 ft. deep. This rare and very valuable mineral substance
became the subject of continued robbery about one hundred and forty
years ago, and is said to have enriched many persons resident in the

neighbourhood. It was strongly guarded by the proprietors, but they

were more than once overpowered by an infuriated mob, and possession
of the mines was held for a considerable time by the desperadoes.
When the owners again got possession, their carts, which conveyed the
produce of the mine to Keswick, were always guarded by soldiers.

       The entrance to the mine was afterwards protected by a strong
building, consisting of a well-appointed guard room and three other
apartments on the ground floor, in one of which was an opening into the
mine, secured by a trap-door, through which alone the miners could enter.

In another of these apartments, called the dressing-room, the miners

changed their ordinary clothes for a working dress, and after six hours'
work in the mine they had again to change their dress under inspection,
lest some of this valuable substance might be concealed about them.

       The plumbago, when perfectly cleaned, was packed up in casks and
despatched to London, and there disposed of at monthly sales by auction,
at the offices of the proprietors, in Thames Street, where it realised
from thirty-five to forty-five shillings per pound, the annual sales ranging
in value from 30,000 to 40,000 sterling.

        Plumbago is found in small irregular nodules about the size and
shape of a potato, and consists ot carbon in a peculiar state of
aggregation, with a small impregnation of iron.

     IThe trade in pencil-making at the time of which am speaking

about 1838 was chiefly in the hands of the Jews, and one important
branch of it consisted in sawing these little nodules of plumbago into
slices of about one-sixteenth of an inch in thickness. This art of sawing
 the plumbago was a most difficult one to acquire, and hitherto all efforts
 to replace hand labour by machinery had failed ; hence it remained a
                 SAWING PLUMBAGO                                                                                                                     35

monopoly in the hands of the Jewish workmen, who were paid as much

as a guinea per pound for sawing the material. The difficulty of cutting

it into slices without breaking them was very great, while the rounded

shape of the nodules and their slippery surface rendered it most trouble-

some to hold them firmly during the sawing operation ; moreover, the

thin slices thus obtained were so brittle as to be easily broken by the

accumulation of sawdust in the bottom of the saw-cut. Another difficulty

arose from the presence of minute sparks of black diamond dispersed here

and there throughout the mass ; whenever the saw struck against one

of them the slice was broken. The hand-saw used by the workmen had
what is called a " wide-set" ; that
                 it

                                           is,

                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                     the teeth were bent right and left

so as to well relieve from the pressure of accumulated sawdust the
consequence being that the saw-cut was nearly as wide as the slice of

plumbago produced, and hence each pound was reduced to about nine
ounces of slices and seven ounces of dust. The result was that the

price of the slices, augmented by twenty shillings for the labour
of sawing, was brought up in value from about forty shillings to nearly

10s. per pound.
4
   aOn enquiry into this matter,     found that     could purchase the
             a                 iIf I
                                              I
sawdust for about half-a-crown per pound. These facts held out promises

of very profitable manufacture,      could only succeed either in

making          sawing-machine that would be less wasteful of the material,

or in finding some means of consolidating this large quantity of dust,

without such an admixture of extraneous matter as would prevent its

being used in the manufacture of the best pencils.

        first tried the sawing-machine, which     constructed with great
;I               ;

                                   I
                                      it I

                                                                                       a
care. The principal features of novelty in this machine related to the

saws these were made from the main-springs of watches which had

been broken while in use they were extremely thin, and of                                 beauti-

fully fine quality of steel. The " set " on the tooth was made especially

small, and consequently the saw-cut was so narrow as to waste only a

very little of the material in the form of dust.    entirely avoided the

clogging of the saw in these narrow cuts, and the consequent splitting-off

of the slice, by putting the teeth of the saw uppermost, and bringing

the piece of blacklead to be cut downward upon by the slow motion
36 HENRY BESSEMER

of a fine screw. By this means the dust fell freely downwards out of
the saw-cut, and never clogged the saw or broke a slice of the

material.

    I was also successful in getting over the difficulty caused by striking

against the little black diamond sparks, by the use of a spring friction

clutch on the connecting-rod which reciprocated the saw-frame.  This

delicately-adjusted clutch was tightened up just sufficiently to overcome

the usual resistance to the saw ; but whenever that resistance was
increased by contact with a diamond spark, the friction clutch simply

yielded and the saw was rendered motionless, although the machine

continued to work until it was thrown out of gear. It was in this way

almost impossible to break a slice in the process of cutting ; whenever

the machine was thus rendered inactive, the diamond was searched for

and removed in the usual way, when the sawing process was resumed.

Having thus succeeded in making a machine capable of saving a

large quantity of the plumbago which had hitherto been wasted as dust

Iin the ordinary process of sawing by hand, considered it advisable to

bring my invention under the notice of the eminent pencil-makers,

Messrs. Mordan and Co., offering to saw their plumbago at a mere

nominal cost, and share with them the value of the material saved.

Every offer was rejected by them, under the plea that the firm could
not suffer their " prepared plumbago " to leave their premises ; they, in
fact, wished me to put up my machine and work it in their manufactory ;

I Ibut this declined to do, and consequently laid the machine aside

for the moment in deep disgust at this unexpected rebuff.

    I then determined to try and utilise the plumbago dust which at

that time could be obtained so cheaply, and after several preliminary
Itrials
         obtained leave from a city firm to use in private their

powerful hydraulic press, a machine capable, if necessary, of exerting

a pressure of 400 tons on the plunger of my experimental mould, which
was simply a cylindrical mass of iron, having an internal diameter of
three inches. This cylinder was half filled with the plumbago sawdust
in a pure state, and the short ram or plunger occupied the other half;
it projected above the surface as shown in Figs. 7 and 8, where A,
Fig. 7, represents a section of the cylinder in which the plunger, B, is
COMPRESSING POWDERED PLUMBAGO                         37

fitted, and c shows a recessed plate of iron on which the cylinder rests.

The powder to be pressed is shown at D ; in this state the apparatus
was placed in a furnace and heated to redness, after which it was
removed to the hydraulic press, and the plunger forced down with a
pressure of about five tons to the square inch ; the pressure being con-
tinued until the whole had cooled down, and the powder had formed
into a solid mass. The cylinder was then placed over a hollow block of

iron as shown at E, in Fig. 8, when pressure was again applied to the
plunger and the cylindrical mass of plumbago was forced out, after
which it was found to be in every way suitable for making the very

best lead pencils.

    IA young friend of mine to whom showed some of this compressed

FIGS. 7 AND 8. METHOD OF COMPRESSING PLUMBAGO POWDER

plumbago, offered to purchase the invention, at the same time saying that

he could not risk more than 200 on the venture ; I, remembering the

rebuff with the sawing-machine, accepted his offer without further con-

sideration ; my friend then went off to Cumberland, and made arrange-

ments with, the Plumbago Company.  At the present day we find

that the best lead pencils in the market are made by crushing the

small lumps and odd pieces of plumbago, then washing and floating the

powder, by that means getting entirely rid of the little black diamonds,

and producing various grades of hardness by different degrees of heat

Iand pressure.
          fear this little episode does not speak very favourably for my

Ibusiness capacity in those early days, for certainly ought to have made
Imuch more than did by this really important invention.
 38 HENRY BESSEMER

    I IWhen was experimenting with plumbago (about 1838) was engaged

in designing a new system of casting types by machinery, some features
of which are of sufficient interest to be recorded. The moulds in this

machine were entirely composed of hardened and tempered steel,
shaped by laps, as the metal could be neither planed nor filed. From
fifty-five to sixty types were cast per minute in each of the two com-
partments of the mould ; and in order that the solidification of the
metal should take place in the extremely small interval of time allowed
for that purpose, the moulds were cooled by a constant flow of cold
water through suitable passages made in them, in close proximity to
those parts where the fluid metal came in contact. Another special
feature of this mode of casting was the employment of a force pump
placed within the bath of melted metal, by means of which the latter
was injected into the mould at the proper moment, the pressure of the

injected fluid being under the perfect control of a loaded valve. It will

be readily understood that a sharp jet of fluid metal would propel with
it an induced current of air, and consequently produce a bubbly and
spongy casting, which would have been wholly valueless. The short
space of time occupied in its solidification afforded no opportunity for
the escape of air in the usual way by floating in bubbles upward, as in
the case of castings where the metal is retained in its molten state in

the mould for several minutes.

    I found an absolute cure for this apparently insuperable difficulty,

by forming a vacuum in the mould at the very instant at which the
injection of metal took place ; and so successful was this system
of exhausting the moulds, that one might break a hundred types in
succession without finding a single blowhole in any one of them.

       The iron or brass founder, whose slow and tedious operations are
performed by quietly pouring his molten metal into the mould with a
ladle, will at once see what a new departure in the art of founding
this machine presented. Firstly, there was the same mould producing
fifty-five to sixty castings per minute, instead of being broken up and
destroyed after one cast : then pouring the metal from a ladle was
replaced by injecting it with a force-pump, the mould itself having a
continuous stream of cold water running through suitable passages
              CASTING TYPE ; ENGINE TURNING               39

formed in it so as to cool every part of its surface in contact with
the fluid metal ; and, finally, instead of the mould being composed
of porous materials through which the confined air gradually escaped,

there was an almost indestructible mould, wholly free from pores, from
which all the contained air was withdrawn in the fraction of a second

by its sudden connection with an exhausted vessel at the moment when

the metal was injected.
       The valve through which the metal was injected into the mould

being extremely small, required to be fitted very closely to prevent
its leaking ; it was found that after it had been opened and closed
some six or seven thousand times, a portion of the fluid metal would,

by friction against the sides of the valve, be rubbed into powder, and

more or less obstruct its action. Otherwise, the really beautiful mechanism
of this casting machine performed all its functions with perfect precision,
and formed the bodies of the type so parallel and so perfect in other

respects, that it soon began to create much jealous feeling and opposition
among the type-founders, whose occupation was threatened by it. For
this reason, Messrs. Wilson, the well-known type-founders, of Edinburgh,

Ito whom had sold my invention, preferred to make no further efforts

to improve the valve arrangements, and allowed the whole matter to

sink quietly into oblivion rather than face the storm they saw was

brewing.
       About this period my attention was directed to the art of engine-

turning, which was a very profitable one to the few who had sufficient

originality of thought to work out those marvellous combinations of

interlacing lines, such as we see at the present time on the coupons
Iof many foreign bonds.
                         was a most enthusiastic admirer of these

productions, especially those of that greatest of all engine-turners,
IJacob Perkins, the well-known American engineer.
                                                   felt certain that
I Icould employ one of these beautiful machines to advantage, and

was fortunate enough to purchase a very good one for 65.
IHow well
Iafternoon ;  remember its being delivered at my premises one

              had it placed in my private office, close to the window.
I Iknew pretty well nearly every detail of its construction, but

commenced by taking it all to pieces, the better to impress my mind
40 HENRY BESSEMER

with the smallest detail. Having put it together again, and taken my
Ievening meal,
Iwindow,          lit my large argand lamp, and, with my back to the

          sat facing the Rose engine, and commenced my first essay
Ion some odd pieces of brass which
                                     had mounted on the straight-line
I Ichuck.
          found myself rather awkward at first, but soon began to

manipulate more successfully, and in a short time became deeply
Iabsorbed in my work.
                       was ruling some very fine waved lines, which
I Icould not see so clearly as
                                  wished, when, looking round to the
Iwindow on which my back had so long been turned,
                                                   was surprised

to find the grey morning light stealing quietly in, and rendering my
                I Ihad no idea that
lamp useless.                        had been sitting up all night, so
Iimperceptibly had the time glided by.
Iwith the progress                          was, however, well satisfied

                    was making, and was much delighted with my
IRose engine, additions to which
                                  never seemed tired of devising, and

thus obtaining the infinity of beautiful effects which simple interlaced

curved lines were capable of producing. Nor was this delightful work

unaccompanied by a substantial reward, for almost fabulous prices were

sometimes paid for unique specimens of the art, applicable as patent

medicine labels, coupons, and for other purposes where it was desirable

to render fraudulent imitation impossible.
IOn this machine
                       engraved many rollers for paper - embossing

and printing for Messrs. De la Rue, and for the firm of Vizetelly and

Co., etc. In cutting deeply-incised lines in metal for surface printing,

there was always a tendency in curves to drag or blur the surface

of the metal block. A little study of the subject convinced me that

this defect was owing to the quality of the metal employed, and after
Iseveral attempts
                   succeeded in making an alloy of tin and bismuth,
which answered admirably. It made a sharp creaking sound as the

tool glided over3

                              it,

                     I

                                                                                                           8

                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                        a
                   cutting very crisp and raising no burr on the sides

of the line cut. Indeed, so perfectly did this alloy remove  serious

practical difficulty, that used to manufacture blocks of the metal for

the trade. This was the case also with another alloy, of equal parts

of tin and zinc, to which were added        per cent, of copper and

per cent, of antimony. The metals forming this alloy have

tendency to solidify in the order of their fusibility, and the alloy has
            MANUFACTURE OF ALLOYS                               41

the peculiar property of passing from the fluid to the solid state so
slowly that it may be used at an intermediate stage, when it is neither

liquid nor solid ; in this state it lends itself admirably to the formation
of what are called " forcers," used in embossing leather or cards. This
raised impression, or " forcer," is made by pouring the melted alloy into
an open frame laid on the edges of the die ; when the metal
has attained a state of partial solidification, a beautiful impression of

the die may be obtained by gentle pressure, and the alloy, when quite
cold, is hard enough to stand the wear and tear of stamping in a

most remarkable manner. The sale of these alloys to the trade was a
welcome source of profit to me, and by no one was their usefulness
more appreciated than by the late Mr. Thomas De la Rue, the talented

Ifounder of that well-known firm of fancy stationers, whom had the

advantage of knowing intimately and numbering among my best

customers.

       Thus, one branch of trade seemed to lead imperceptibly to

Ianother ; but was always waiting and looking forward to the establish-
Iment of the one large and steady branch of business that hoped would

some day allow me to drop the many schemes which my versatile mind
Iso easily created, seized upon, and engrafted on the business
                                                                was

carrying on ; but this one great branch of trade, so earnestly desired,
Ihad not yet manifested itself.
                                 was accordingly content in the mean-

time to hold on to everything that fairly paid for the time and capital

employed in its production.

My life at this time was pretty much one of hard work and
Isteady attention to business, from which
                                           could only snatch short
Iintervals. Late in the evening would drop in and have a chat with

my father, then advanced in years, but ever anxious to hear of my

progress, and desirous to see the latest specimens of Rose engine work,

or to discuss with me some of the many new schemes that occupied

my thoughts. At that time my two sisters kept house for my father,

Iand in this little family circle spent many a quiet evening. There

was another house, however, to which my steps were involuntarily wont

to lead me. My friend, Mr. Richard Allen, had a fair daughter, to

Iwhom had for some time been engaged ; thus, between the two families

                                                                                                                                                               G
42 HENRY BESSEMER

all my leisure hours were spent in friendly intercourse and quiet meetings,

without even a desire on my part to mix in any of those gaieties

which the world calls Society. Pleasant and delightful as were these

evenings, replete with all the charm of unrestricted social amenities,

they were, nevertheless, only steps to one great end and aim of all my

Iearthly aspirations: for above all things desired to exchange my lonely
Ibachelor's apartments for a home of my own.
                                              did not see the wisdom
of waiting for an indefinite time on " fickle fortune," so as my betrothed

was willing to share my lot in life, we were married. We settled down

Iquietly in Northampton Square, close to my place of business, and

am happy to say that in all the changes and vicissitudes of the sixty-
Ifour years that have passed since that happy event,
                                                      have never had
Ireason to regret a step which had taken in the full confidence of youth
Ithat
       should, in time, be able to carve out for myself a name and a

position in the world worthy of her to whom my life was henceforth

to be devoted.

The white metal medallions and casts of natural objects, coated

with a film of copper and exhibited by me at the Museum of Arts

and Manufactures, in Leicester Square, attracted the attention of a

gentleman who had in his possession a great many of the beautiful

dies that had been engraved in the French mint, the impressions from
which are generally known as the " Napoleon Medals." Some of them

were engraved in steel, others were cut in brass, and all were of the
                             I made arrangements with the owner
most exquisite workmanship.

of these dies to produce a great quantity of bronzed impressions of

Ithem at prices which were highly renumerative. For this purpose,

devised a simple apparatus for rapidly stamping the impressions in

semi-fluid metal, the only mode by which perfect impressions could be

obtained from those dies that were engraved in brass. After some

Iconsiderable trouble, produced an alloy of tin and other metals, which

it

                                                                                                            it,
differed from the alloy named before in having no zinc in                                                        though

nevertheless passed so slowly and so gradually from the fluid to the

solid state, that the most perfect impressions were obtained with unerring

certainty. The shower of splashes inseparable from stamping semi-

fluid metal was received in the case surrounding the dies, and this was
                                                                                                          PLATE V.

FIG. 9. KEPRODUCTION OP THE FAMOUS " DOUBLE HEAD " MEDAL, NAPOLEON AND JOSEPHINE
> OF i nc  V
VERSITY |
OF
                                                                                   PLATE VI.

          FIG. 10. REPRODUCTION OF A NAPOLEON MEDAL

FIG. 11. REPRODUCTION OF MEDALLION OF MINERVA'S HEAD
                STAMPING MEDALLIONS                                43

automatically closed as the press descended. Immense quantities of

these fine medallions were made, and beautifully bronzed without
Iimpairing their sharpness.
                             still possess a few of them, more or less
Idamaged by time; and as an example of their general character, give

photographic reproductions of some of them in the figures on Plates V.
                                                    IThose
and VI., each being the same size as the original.                 have
selected include the famous " double - head," Napoleon and Josephine

(Fig. 9, Plate V.), said to be the finest portrait medals of the Emperor

ever produced.  Fig. 10, Plate VI., is another of these Napoleon

medals, and Fig. 11 is a medallion of the head of Minerva.

    IOne day was called upon by a gentleman, a Mr. James Young,
Iwho presented a card of introduction from a barrister to whom was

well known. His object was to obtain the assistance of a mechanician
Ito devise, or construct, a machine for setting up printing type.
                                                                   had

a long and pleasant conversation with this most agreeable client ;

indeed, our frequent meetings and friendly discussions resulted in a

close friendship, terminating only with his death, which occurred several

years later. My friend Young, who was a silk merchant at Lille, had

persuaded himself that by playing on keys, arranged somewhat after

the style of a pianoforte, all the letters required in a printed page

could be mechanically arranged in lines and columns more quickly than

by hand ; but as he was personally wholly unacquainted with mechanism,

he desired someone to elaborate all the details of such a machine, and
Iasked me if
                would professionally study the subject for him, and

prepare models to illustrate each proposition. The matter seemed a

Ivery difficult one at first sight, and said that it would be impossible

for me to devote more than a portion    of each day to its consideration.
IIt was then arranged that              give as much thought to the
Isubject as                  should     due attention to my general

                could, consistent with

business, and to these terms was attached a guinea per day as a con-

sulting fee.

      The general idea on which the machine was based was the
arranging of the respective letters in long narrow boxes, from which
a touch of the key referring to any particular letter would detach the
type required ; this, when set at liberty, was to slide down an inclined
44 HENRY BESSEMER

plane to a terminal point, where other mechanism was to divide the

letters so received, into lines if required, and thus build up a page

of matter, such as a column in a newspaper, etc.

    It will be at once understood that this was not a very simple

matter, in consequence of the many signs required. We have first the

twenty-six small letters of the alphabet, and the double letters, such

as ji, fl, jf, ffi, ffl; then we have the points, or punctuations, signs of

reference, etc. ; there are also the ten figures and the twenty-six capital

letters and their respective double letters, as well as blank types, called
" spaces," of different thicknesses, required to divide separate words

from each other, etc, Now, as a primary necessity, these numerous

letters, when wanted, must, of course, come from different places, and

all must descend grooves in the inclined planes in precisely equal

times. The time of the whole journey down the incline, say, 2 ft. long,

must not occupy any one type more that one-hundredth of a second

                                                or its arrival will be too
more or less than the one before or behind      C
                                                      it,

                                                           C,
soon or too late, and the word will be wrongly spelt. Thus, suppose

the word ACT        required, and the keys A,                  and  T,  are touched
              is
rapidly in succession.  is       If the letter  should arrive first instead

of A, the word would not be "ACT" but " CAT," and so for every
word. A type that
                                 less than  1  in. in length must never, on its

journey, arrive its own length in advance or in the rear of the others

that are simultaneously rushing down the inclined plane to the same

terminus.

    The difficulty that this fact presented was almost beyond belief.

Many models were made and much study devoted to it. Thus, suppose

a type detached at the point     in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 12)
                                 A

                                            it
is  required to slide down the inclined plane to and another one from
                                                  c,
                                                                                            is
the point  immediately to follow,               will be seen that not only
           B

               is
                              a
the road to be travelled by A much longer than that by B, but B also

has the advantage of coming straight down the inclined surface,

encountering friction only on the one surface on which                  rests while
                                                                    it
A has not only got               longer journey to perform, but       it

                                                                                               ;
                                                                    lays its whole

weight on the inclined surface, and rubs also against the inclined side

of its groove, thus causing additional friction, so lessening the
YOUNGS TYPE COMPOSING MACHINE     45

speed of its descent, and resulting in the arrival of B at its destination
before, instead of after, A.

          faa/ be d> e>        h

Fig. 12.  Fig. 13.
FIG. 14

                                     FIGS. 12 TO 14. YOUNG'S COMPOSING MACHINE

       The result of studying this part of the question forced on my mind
the important fact that the grooves on the surface of the inclined plane
would have to be all of precisely the same length, and every letter, in
46 HENRY BESSEMER

descending, would have to encounter exactly the same amount of side way
rubbing surface. This knotty point was at last settled in so simple and

I Iperfect a manner, that when had accomplished it felt half ashamed

that it had so long eluded me. The form of grooved incline thus
indicated ensured a perfect spelling of every word, and removed the

greatest obstacle on the way to success.
       The diagram, Fig. 13, represents a portion of the inclined plane,

with its small shallow grooves so arranged that any one of the letters

a, b, c, d, e,f, g, and h, at the top of the inclined plane would, if allowed

to slide down this series of curved grooves, pass along precisely similar
paths, and travel precisely equal distances, before arriving at the

terminus c.

     It will be readily understood that a simple extension of this system

would allow any number of letters arranged along the upper line to reach
the terminus in the same time ; hence each one would arrive in the

order of its departure and every word would be spelt correctly.

    I will not tire the reader with the many other difficult points

surmounted, only by constant patience, during fifteen months. The
type-composing machine was then a success, and my friend Young was
greatly pleased at the result. His patent was much used in Paris, and
in England it was employed by the spirited proprietor of the Family
Herald, who gave an engraving of the machine at the head of the paper,
very similar to the illustration, Fig. 14, on page 45, which shows the
type-composing machine in operation. The person shown on the right
is seated before a double set of flat keys, similar to the keys of a
pianoforte, each key having its proper letter marked thereon ; the
depression of a key detaches its corresponding type from one of the
numerous partitions in the box or case A ; this type will then slide down
the series of grooves allotted to it on the inclined plane B, and arrive
at a point, c, where a rapidly vibrating finger or beater tips up every
letter as it arrives into an upright position, and forces it along the

channel D. These rows of letters are moved laterally, forming one line
of the intended page. The boy on the left hand divides the words

with a hyphen if necessary, or he so spaces them as to fill one

complete line ; this operation he can complete while another line is
YOUNG'S TYPE COMPOSING MACHINE                       47

forming in the channel D. In this way he makes line after line until

part of a page is set up, when he moves on the galley E, shown at his

left hand. Thus a page or a long column of matter was produced with

the greatest ease, and in a very short space of time.

     In the ordinary way of composing types, each letter is picked up

by hand from one of the numerous small divisions of a shallow box, or
" case," as it is called, and the letters are then arranged in their right

positions in a small frame held in the left hand of the compositor.

About 1700 or 1800 letters per hour can be formed into lines and

columns by a dexterous compositor, while as many as 6000 types per
Ahour could be set by the composing machine.
                                              young lady in the office

of the Family Herald undertook the following task at the suggestion

of the proprietor of The Times, viz. : she was to set up not less than

5000 types per hour for ten consecutive hours, on six consecutive days ;

giving a total of 300,000 letters in the week. This she easily accomplished,

and was then presented with a 5 note by Mr. Walter.

This mode of composing types by playing on keys arranged precisely

like the keys of a pianoforte would have formed an excellent occupation
for women ; but it did not find favour with the lords of creation, who

strongly objected to such successful competition by female labour, and so

the machine eventually died a natural death.
                  CHAPTER IV

                  UTKECHT VELVET

 A MONGST the many persons who had seen my castings from

-** Nature coated with copper, at the Museum, was a member

of the old-established firm of decorators, Messrs. Pratt, of Bond Street ;

and being at that time in search of someone to carry out an idea

of his own, he sought an interview with me. He explained his object,
Iand asked me if
                  thought it possible to produce an imitation of a

particular material which he required, showing me at the same time

some splendid old specimens of figured Genoa velvet with a satin
ground. Mr. Pratt's idea was to produce an imitation of this beautiful

fabric on Utrecht velvet, woven plain, and to have the desired patterns

produced thereon by stamping, after the manner of the embossed
cotton velvet so much in fashion at that time. He told me that

various qualities of Utrecht velvet had been tried for him by the

best manufacturers of embossed cotton velvet, but all attempts to pro-

duce a permanent effect on this stubborn material had utterly failed,

and he had abandoned the idea of getting it made, until he had by
chance seen the metal castings from Nature before referred to. Ex-

plaining this circumstance to me, he complimented me by saying that

the idea at once struck him that the man who had found out how to

produce such marvellous castings would, in all probability, soon discover

how to emboss Utrecht velvet.

       The result of this interview was  that Mr. Pratt left with me a
specimen of his woven Genoa velvet,
try and produce by heat and presssure    Ia copy of which undertook to

                                         on a plain fabric. This Utrecht

velvet is a long-piled, very harsh and stubborn worsted material,

as, indeed, every one would at once recognise who had seen chairs
                                 STAMPING UTRECHT VELVET                                                                                                                                              49

covered with  and sat upon for years, without the pile being flattened
I
down.
                a

                   it,
                                                  a
                                                            it

                                                                                                                                    ;

                                                                          it
                                                                       I,

                                                                                                                                                                                ;
       provided myself with flat brass die, or plate, engraved nearly

a quarter of an inch deep, each of the parts sunk in having vertical

sides and     flat bottom, so that the pile at certain parts was left

wholly untouched by the die, and therefore in its normal state while

those parts which came in contact with the plate were crushed down.
All this was perfect enough, as far as
                                        went but          like others,

failed to produce a permanent effect, for in two or three days the

pile so pressed down would partially rise again, and the pattern

almost disappear. Many things were tried, but neither hot water nor

steaming, nor the application of alkaline solutions, were of any avail, and

began to fear that should be no more successful than others had
I

           a

             I
                       I

                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;
been in dealing with this material. Further consideration, however,

and little study of the nature and properties of hair and wool, led to

the idea that these substances were really of the nature of horn and

this material, knew, was capable of semi-fusion at high temperature,

and was, in that condition, suitable for being moulded into various

ornamental shapes, which permanently retained, when cold, the forms

thus impressed upon them in heated state.                 now felt that was
                                 aa    iIf
on the right scent, and believed that         I

                                                         it

                                                              I
                                                could rapidly submit the

material to a very high temperature, and then move away as quickly,

partial fusion of the part in contact with the hot surface of the die
a

  it I

                     a
                              a
would take place, and produce glossy surface like satin, which would

never again stand up as pile.

       had no sooner got this view of the subject than took measures to
                                                          I

                                                                        aa
put to practical test. The result went to show that by maintaining

the metal surface, which was in contact with the velvet, at very high

temperature for short and definite period, and acting under carefully-

regulated amount of pressure, the process could be made a perfect

success. These experiments also proved that the temperature must be

so high as to produce semi-fusion of the wool, and that                              continued
a
                                     a

                                                        a
                                                                                  a

                                                                          if
for fraction of a minute too long the fabric would be destroyed.

The next step was to devise          machine in which these very critical

conditions could be practically carried out on            commercial scale. This

                                                                                           H
50 HENRY BESSEMER

I undertook to do at my own cost, in consideration of the very liberal
Iprice per yard offered me for embossing the velvet.
Iown premises, the machine                            erected, on my

                            had designed, and personally regulated

its operations. The apparatus consisted mainly of a massive iron frame,

in which was mounted a very deeply -engraved hollow roller of cast

iron, having a plain or unindented paper roller running in contact

with its under-side. The iron roller was not heated by steam, as the

temperature absolutely necessary was too high for that mode of heating ;

Iso had to apply a powerful Bunsen gas-burner, extending the whole

Ilength of the interior of the open-ended, hollow-engraved roller, and

by that means kept it at a constant temperature just short of what

would be destructive to the fabric. Now, a cast-iron roller working in

the open air is not a thing to which one can apply the glass bulb of a

thermometer, and ascertain the precise temperature of its external

surface ; consequently, the accurate control of the temperature of the

roller presented many difficulties ; but, after some study of the question,

I found a most satisfactory way of ascertaining this all-important fact.
    I was aware that metallic lead fuses at a temperature of 640 deg.

Fahr., and by additions to that metal of tin and bismuth, in varying

proportions, its melting temperature can be lowered until the alloy will

Ifuse at the boiling point of water, viz., 212 deg. With these facts before

me, had simply to form a standard alloy, fusible at, say, 450 deg. Fahr.,

that being the required temperature of the roll. This we may call alloy B ;

another alloy, A, was made that would fuse at 10 deg, lower than B, and

a third, c, was made whose melting temperature was 10 deg. Fahr. higher

than B. These three alloys were made into rods about the length and

size of a black-lead pencil. Their use was extremely simple. When

commencing to heat up the roller for working, one end of the most

fusible rod, A, was pressed against the hot iron roller as it revolved, and

as soon as the first symptom of the fusion of the end of the rod manifested
itself, it was known that the roller was within 10 deg. of its proper working

heat. Care was then taken to gradually regulate the gas supply, and

when the end of the standard or working rod B was found to fuse on being

pressed against the roller, the machine was put in motion at the exactly-

ascertained speed, thus producing with certainty a beautiful figured fabric
                                                                            PLATE VII.

FIG. 15. REPRODUCTION OF STAMPED UTRECHT VELVET
EMBOSSING UTRECHT VELVET; TERRY EDGING                                   51

that twenty -years after would be found in much the same condition,

less the amount of wear and tear to which it had been subjected.

       The first practical working of this new process was upon a beautiful
design, for which Messrs. Pratt had obtained an order for furnishing a

suite of apartments at Windsor Castle, so that the new material, under

so favourable an introduction, was certain to become fashionable.
IIn those palmy days of Utrecht velvet embossing,
                                                   was paid six

shillings a yard for putting fabric through the rolls ; but gradually this

very high price was reduced, and when it came down to a shilling per

yard immense quantities were embossed. Prices were still on the decline,

when my machines and the stock of engraved rollers were purchased from

me by Messrs. Gillett, Lees and Company, the well-known Utrecht velvet
Aweavers of Banbury.
                      general taste for this material soon afterwards

set in ; prices for embossing were lowered ultimately to one penny per

yard, and many persons may still remember, some forty years ago, seeing

the cushions of cabs and omnibuses covered with this decorative fabric.

It is curious that the present fashion for antiquated furniture has again

brought it into use, and it may now be seen in many of the best houses.

      The original specimen of figured Genoa Velvet brought me by
Mr. Pratt had what is called a narrow edging of " Terry," or uncut velvet,

forming a series of little ribs which surrounded each leaf or scroll in the

design, and made a sort of natural shading between the dark untouched

pile of velvet, and the bright and satiny pressed-down surface of the
                                        A very beautiful specimen
ground on which the design was formed.
of my imitation of this " Terry" edging came into the possession of my

niece, Mrs. Ada Allen, of Wingerworth Hall, and this she kindly

presented to me ; it has some historic interest, being the design of
Mr. Pugin for covering the benches in the House of Lords ; the roller

was engraved by myself, and it was the first attempt to produce an

imitation of the " Terry " edging in this new fabric. A photographic
reproduction of this old specimen is given in Fig. 15, Plate VII., and it

shows that after the many years' use of the fabric the design still
retains marked tracing of the " Terry" edging.
IIn the early part of these pages,
                                        referred to the fact that the

origin of many important inventions and manufactures was lost in the
52 HENRY BESSEMER

" mist of ages," but here we have an example of one that has passed

Iout of memory whilst its originator is still living : for venture to say

that few indeed of the thousands who daily lounge in their easy chairs
on embossed Utrecht velvet would ever suspect that this material issued
from the same room in " Baxter House " in which all my first steel
experiments were made ; and that the same hand which regulated and
controlled the fiery steel converter also drew the first few hundred yards
of that very beautiful material through the rolls.
                CHAPTER V

                THE MANUFACTURE OF BRONZE POWDER'

1% /|~Y eldest sister was a very clever painter in water colours, and in
          her early life, in the little village of Charlton, she had ample

opportunities of indulging her taste for flower-painting. My father had
lived too long in Holland not to have imbibed a love of the beautiful

Dutch tulips, for which there was a great rage in his young days, so

much so, indeed, that a single bulb would sometimes realise a fabulous

price. At Charlton, my father grew his beloved tulips, and my sister
                                                     I also well remember
used to paint all the finest specimens he produced.

the many beautifully -coloured chrysanthemums we there cultivated,

although none of the magnificent varieties since introduced from Japan were

then known. My sister had accumulated a great collection of charming
groups of these and other flowers, and had, with much ingenuity made

a most tastefully -decorated portfolio for their reception. She wished to

have the words

                STUDIES OF FLOWERS

                FROM NATURE,

                                BY

                MISS BESSEMER,

written in bold printing letters within a wreath of acorns and oak leaves

Iwhich she had painted on the outside of the portfolio ; as was

somewhat of an expert in writing ornamental characters, she asked me
to do this for her, and handed me the portfolio to take home with me

for that purpose.
       How trivial and how very unimportant this incident must appear

to my readers. It was, nevertheless, fraught with the most momentous

consequences to me ; in fact, it changed the whole current of my life,
and rendered possible that still greater change which the iron and steel
54 HENRY BESSEMER

industry of the world has undergone, and with it the fortunes of hundreds

of persons who have been directly, or indirectly, affected by it.

    IThe portfolio was so prettily finished that did not like to write
Ithe desired inscription in common ink ; and as had seen, on one occasion,

some gold powder used by japanners, it struck me that this would be
Ia very appropriate material for the lettering had undertaken.
IHow distinctly
                         remember going to the shop of a Mr. Clark, a
colourman in St. John Street, Clerkenwell, to purchase this " Gold
IPowder." He showed me samples of two colours, which
                                                                   approved.
IThe material was not called "gold," but " bronze" powder, and ordered
Ian ounce of each shade of colour, for which was to call on the following
I Iday.
did so, and was greatly astonished to find that had to pay

seven shillings per ounce for it.
IOn my way home,
                           could not help asking myself, over      and over
again, " How can this simple metallic powder cost so much          money ? "

                                    even at that price, to give this
                           is,
                                           it,

                                                            a
for there cannot be gold enough in                                 ; it
beautiful rich colour. It
                               probably, only better sort of brass and  is

for brass in almost any conceivable form, seven shillings per ounce         a

marvellous price."

         hurried home, and submitted portion of both samples to the action
of dilute sulphuric acid, and satisfied myself that no gold was present.

   still remember with what impatience watched the solution of the
I                                  a
    I
                                       I
                      a
powder, and how forcibly I if Iwas struck with the immense advantage        it

offered as manufacture,        skilled labour could be superseded by steam

power. Here was powdered brass selling retail at               a5  12s. per pound,

while the raw material from which was made cost probably no more than

Itsixpence. " must, surely," thought, " be made slowly and laboriously,
                                   ; it

                                            a if
by some old-fashioned hand process and            itso, offers splendid oppor-
tunity for any mechanic who can devise            machine capable of producing

simply by power."
it
adopted this view of the case with that eagerness for novel
   I
           I
inventions which my surroundings had so strongly favoured, and plunged
                                   I

                                                        it

                                                             I
headlong into this new and deeply-interesting subject.

     At first, endeavoured to ascertain how the powder was then made,

but no one could tell me. At last found that was made chiefly at
EARLY SCHEMES FOR MAKING BRONZE POWDER                                    55

INuremberg, and its mode of manufacture was kept a profound secret.
Ihunted up many old books and encyclopaedias, and in one which found at

the British Museum, the powder was described as being made of various

copper alloys beaten into thin leaves, after the manner of making gold leaf,

in books of parchment and gold-beaters' skin. The delicate thin leaves so

made were ground by hand labour to powder on a marble slab with a stone

muller, and mixed with a thick solution of ogum arabic to form a stiff
paste and facilitate the grinding process. The gum so added was

afterwards got rid of by successive washings in hot water.

     It thus became evident to me that the great cost of bronze powder

was due to this slow and most expensive mode of manufacture, and it

Iwas equally evident that if could devise some means of producing it

from a solid lump of brass, by steam power, the profits would be very
I Iconsiderable. With these convictions
                             at once set to work.  had at
Ithat time a two-horse power engine, partly made by myself, which

Ifinished and erected in a small private room at the back of my own

house, for there could make my experiments in secret.

    IThen came the all-important question, from what point was to

attack the new problem ? An attempt to imitate the old process by

any sort of automatic mechanism seemed to present insurmountable

obstacles the thousands of delicate skins to be manipulated, the fragile

leaves of metal that would be carried away by the smallest current of

air from a revolving drum or a strap in motion, and the large amount

of power which must of necessity be employed to reduce the metal in

whatever way it was treated. This necessity for delicate handling

combined with great mechanical force, gave a direct negative to any

hopes of producing the powder in a way analogous to the one in use.
I AHow could then proceed ?
                             mass of solid brass did not appear to

be a likely thing to fall to powder under treatment by a pestle and mortar.

Then came the question : Can the metal be rendered brittle, and so facili-

tate its reduction ? No, it cannot be made brittle except by alloying it

with such other metals as will destroy its beautiful gold colour. Then there

was the question of solution of the metal in acid, and its precipitation in

the form of powder. These and many other plans were thought of, only to

be again put aside as theoretically improbable or impracticable schemes.
56 HENRY BESSEMER

The first idea which presented itself to my mind as a possible

mode of reducing a piece of hard, tough brass to extremely minute,

brilliant particles, was based on the principles of the common turning-

Ilathe, with which made my first attempt on a circular disc of brass,

one-quarter of an inch in thickness, and four inches in diameter. This

was mounted on a suitable mandril, and made to revolve at a speed of

200 revolutions per minute. The revolving brass disc was tightly pressed

between two small steel rollers, having fine but very sharp diagonal

grooves formed on their surfaces, sloping to the left on one of them

and to the right on the other ; the effect of this was to impress

diagonal lines crossing each other on the periphery of the brass disc,
Ifand to form on it a series of minute squares.
                                                 the reader examines

the milled edge of a sovereign, he will see just such indented lines

                   FIG. 16. DIAGRAM SHOWING BASE OP PYRAMIDS FOR BRONZE POWDER

running across its periphery, but in the experiment described the lines

impressed on the brass disc were V-shaped. A flat-faced turning tool

mounted on a slide-rest was slowly advanced in the direction of the
disc, so as to shave off an extremely thin film of metal from the apex
of every one of the truncated pyramids formed on the periphery of the
disc. The actual size of the base of each of these pyramids is shown
in Fig. 16, where a surface of 1 in. square is divided into a hundred lines
to the inch, and is crossed at right angles by another series of lines of
similar pitch, forming, of course, 10,000 small squares, which represent

the base of each pyramid ; hence it will be seen that if the small square

upper surface of each pyramid is one-half the width of its base, its area
will be one-fourth that of the base, or only one 40,000th of a square
inch, and this will be the uniform shape and size of each particle of the

powder so produced. Thus, if the area of the periphery of the disc is

equal to four square inches, and is revolving at the very moderate speed
       FIRST EXPERIMENT IN MAKING BRONZE POWDER                     57

of 200 revolutions per minute, we shall have 40,000 by 200, or just

8,000,000 small particles of brass cut off per minute, every one of exactly

the same form and size, the continued pressure of the steel rollers

renewing the depth of the grooves as fast as the cutter pares them

down.

From this it will be obvious that in a machine closely resembling

a lathe, discs of much larger diameter and much thicker than my small

4-in. experimental disc, could be employed ; and, further, that ten or a

dozen such discs could be put at a small distance apart on the same

mandril. Thus, large quantities of solid brass could, in a short space
Itof time, be made into powder by this simple device.
                                                       will also be

understood that the cutting tool could be advanced so slowly by a fine

screw properly geared, that a mere film of brass would be taken off the

summit of each pyramid, and so very fine powder would be produced.
ISuch then was the theory on which
                                      relied in my first attempt

to produce a bronze powder direct from solid brass. My experimental

apparatus was made very accurately in all its working parts, and it was
Iwith much anxiety that awaited the time necessary to get the first
Iresults of this novel scheme, which
                                      may say at once were very
unsatisfactory. It is true that the machine worked admirably, and

minute particles of brass were produced and thrown up like a little

fountain of yellow dust as the disc spun round ; but, alas ! neither to

I Ithe touch nor to the eye did it resemble the bronze powder of commerce.
was,   may freely own, deeply disappointed at this failure, because the

promise was so large. The direct production of powder, worth sixty

shillings to eighty shillings per pound wholesale, from brass plates costing

I Ionly ninepence per pound, was, to use a common phrase, " too good to

be true," and so found it ; and well remember that at the time it

Irequired all my philosophy to persuade myself that must look forward

to such disappointments as the natural result of trying so many novel
It Ischemes.
       was not the first castle  had built, only to see it topple

over. Fortunately, my sanguine temperament soon enabled me to forget

this failure, and to again quietly pursue my usual avocations.

    I IAbout a year after the incidents have just related, happened

to be talking to the elder Mr. De La Rue, when he mentioned to me
58 HENRY BESSEMER

Ia matter in which he was at that moment greatly interested ; indeed,
   may say, he was very justly irritated with a merchant who sold him

arrowroot largely adulterated with potato starch, which had spoiled
a considerable amount of valuable work for which the pure starch
of arrowroot was required. He had, he said, just found out a mode

by which he could accurately ascertain the percentage of potato starch

present ; he added that chemically these substances were so much alike

in their constituents that he could not rely on simple analysis as a proof
of fraud. He told me that by putting, say 100 granules of the adulterated
starch, in the form of powder, under the microscope, he could see that

there were present granules of two distinct shapes. The genuine arrowroot
consisted of oval granules, while the potato-starch granules were perfectly

spherical ; and by simply counting the number of each shape in any given

quantity he could ascertain beyond question the percentage of adulteration.

    I was a good deal struck by this ingenious mode of detecting adultera

tion ; and a few days later, when thinking it over, it occurred to me that

possibly the microscope might throw some light on the cause of the

I Ifailure of my then almost forgotten attempts to produce bronze powder.
submitted some of the brass powder  had made, and some of the

ordinary bronze powder of commerce, to microscopic examination, and saw

in a moment the cause of my failure. The ordinary bronze powder
;                                                                as
                               ;

                      if

                                            it

                                                                          a
                                                                                                         is,

                                                                                                              a
before mentioned, made from an exceedingly thin leaf of beaten metal,

resembling an ordinary leaf of gold. Now, such thin flake, rubbed

or torn to fragments, will, on a smaller scale, resemble a sheet of paper

torn into minute pieces and  such fragments of paper were allowed

to fall on a varnished or adhesive surface, they would not stand up on

edge, but would lie flat down, and when pressed open would represent

a continuous surface of white paper. So was with the bronze powder

of commerce when applied to an adhesive surface, the small flat

fragments of leaf (for such they are) present a continuous bright surface,
and reflect light as from a polished metal plane. But the particles

of metal made from my machine, minute as they were, presented

perfectly different appearance, and under a high magnifying power they

were found to be little curled-up pieces, one side being bright and the

other rough and corrugated, and destitute of any brilliancy; while on
THE FIRST SUCCESS IN MAKING BRONZE POWDER                  59

being applied to an adhesive surface they arranged themselves, without
order, like grains of sand or other amorphous bodies, and reflected
scarcely any light to the eye. The reason of my failure was thus

rendered perfectly obvious.
       This critical examination, and the evidence it afforded me of what

was really necessary to constitute bronze powder, began to excite my

imagination ; for to make a pound of brass in an hour, by machinery,

equal in value to an ounce of gold, was too seductive a problem to be

easily relinquished.  Again the idea and the hope of its realisation took
possession of me.     I" Was this to be, after all,"  asked myself, " the
                      I had so long hoped for, which was to wipe away
one great success

all my other pursuits in life, and land me in the lap of luxury, if not

of absolute wealth?"
I studied the whole question over and over again, from every point
Iof view, and week after week
                               became more and more certain that
I Iwas on the right track. At length
                                      came to an absolute decision.
I I" Yes," said, " will throw myself into it again."
I then went systematically to work, and drew out the detailed plans

for the different machines that were necessary to test my idea thoroughly.

I purchased a four horse-power steam engine, and erected it in close
Iconnection with my dwelling-house. m made part of the machinery in

my own workshops, and personally erected the whole of it in a room

into which no one was ever allowed to enter but myself. At last,

after months of labour, the great day of trial once more arrived, and
I Ihad to submit the raw material to the inexorable test.
                                                           watched

the operations with a beating heart, and saw the iron monster do its

Iappointed work, not to perfection, but so far well as to constitute an
actual commercial success.  felt that on the result of that hour's trial

hung the whole of my future life's history, and so it did, as the sequel

will clearly show.
I now became most anxious to have my views confirmed by some
Iof the importers of German bronze. With this object,
                                                       tried for a

Iweek or so to improve the working of the machinery, and then produced

a very fair sample of my new material, which put into the small ounce

packages common in the trade, and with it called on a Jewish importer.
60 HENRY BESSEMER

IThis worthy individual looked critically at my samples, and when

requested him to purchase some he was very curious, asking me many

fishing questions, for his practised eye had at once shown him that the
powder differed slightly in appearance from the usual make of bronze.

He, however, made a distinct offer of twenty shillings per pound for

Iall could manufacture.

Such an offer from a Jewish importer of bronze convinced me at
Ionce that the sample
                       had shown him was worth much more than

the price he had named ; and this view was still further confirmed by a

long conversation, which terminated in an offer to give me 500 per

Iannum for the sole use of the machinery had invented. This proposal
I Icould not for a moment entertain, for could no longer doubt that

my new mode of producing bronze powder was destined to be a great

commercial success.
I IAs have already explained, had become intimately acquainted
Iwith Mr. Young, the inventor of the type-composing machine.
Ihim all that                                                 told

               had achieved, and showed him some of the powder
I Ihad produced. He was of opinion that
                                         ought to build a large

works, and make bronze powder for "all the world." Then arose

the question of capital, and this he proposed to supply, and to

Ishare with me the profits of the venture, an offer which eventually

accepted ; but we had several knotty points to settle before a single

step could be taken. Up to this juncture the details of my invention

and the nature of the several machines used in the process were an

Iabsolute secret, and feared to patent these inventions : firstly, because

they might be modified or improved by others, but chiefly because

secret machinery could be erected abroad, and the article smuggled

into this country without fear of detection, because powder cannot be

identified as having been made by any special machinery. Thus, a patent

would have afforded no protection whatever to me. Then came the

difficult question of continued secrecy; there were powerful machines

of many tons in weight to be made ; some of them were necessarily very

complicated, and somebody must know for whom they were. Also the
Ipeople who tended the machine must know all about it ; and
                                                              had

still to find out how all the various alloys were made, and the way in
PREPARATIONS FOR MANUFACTURE OF BRONZE POWDER                                          61

which such varied colours as the trade required were      produced.                    The
result of a review of all these difficulties was this :  to be sold                    at a

      Firstly, we both agreed that if brass were still

higher price than silver, it would be impossible for us to maintain this

price if all the details of my system were shown and described in a

patent blue-book, which anyone could buy for sixpence. This fact

absolutely decided me not to patent the invention.

Secondly, how could we trust workpeople who could have a thousand

pounds or so given them at any time for an hour or two's talk with a

rival manufacturer ? This difficulty we proposed to meet by engaging,

at high salaries, my wife's three young brothers, on whom we felt we

could entirely rely ; so this point was satisfactorily arranged.*

Thirdly, how about making these massive machines ? What

engineers could we trust? for any engineer must have such work done

Iin his workshops open to the eyes of all his men.    I could undertake
Fortunately, here     was enabled to step in.
                                                     but also each of the
personally to make, not only all the general plans,

working drawings, to a large scale, for each of the machines required ;

I Iand when had thus devised and settled every machine as a whole,

undertook to dissect it and make separate drawings of each part,

accurately figured for dimensions, and to take these separate parts of the

several machines and get them made : some in Manchester, some in

Glasgow, some in Liverpool, and some in London, so that no engineer

Icould ever guess what these parts of machines were intended to be
used for. Of course,  was able to undertake the proper fitting

together of all these detached parts after they had arrived in London.

      All this was plain sailing, but it imposed on me one great difficulty.

I Iproposed to do the work of seventy or eighty men, and wanted this

carried out by my three relatives without much labour or trouble to any
Iof them. It simply meant this :
                                  must design each class of machine
to be what is called a " self-acting machine " ; that
                      it                                                               a machine that

                                                  a

                                                 it

                                                                           a
                                                                                  is,
could take care of itself; and when certain quantity of raw material

had been put in place must deal with without skilled attendant, do
its appointed work with unerring certainty, and throw itself out of gear

* This important secret was kept inviolably for more than forty years
62 HENRY BESSEMER

when its task was accomplished, to prevent injury to itself. This

I also took upon myself to do, notwithstanding that one of the most

powerful machines in the series would sometimes stop the career of a
20 horse-power engine, and pull it up dead, while others were performing

noiselessly the most delicate operations conceivable.

Fourthly, there came the question of making the various alloys

Inecessary to give, by oxidation, the almost endless variety of tints required
in the trade.  had previously done a great deal in making alloys of

copper, tin, bismuth, and other metals, and this matter we both agreed

to leave for future development. My friend Young, who had acquired
great confidence in my inventive faculties, remarked, " Oh, you will be
certain to do it when the time comes." Relying thus with implicit faith

on me, he agreed to enter into this new manufacture.
It Iwas, indeed, no light matter, and felt the great responsibility
I It Iwas assuming.
               is true  had been successful on a small scale in

overcoming one of the main difficulties in the new process, but there was

Istill much to invent, and much that at that period necessarily knew

nothing about. There were, in fact, the hundred-and-one little secrets of

the trade which the ingenuity of many men and long practice had built

up and accumulated around the ancient art of bronze-powder making. All

of these were still kept absolutely secret by the German manufacturers,

Iwhom proposed to rival and beat in the open markets of the world

by a series of processes, absolutely new, and bearing not the faintest

resemblance to any of the methods then in use. In my process, the

power of steam, acting through delicate and complicated mechanism,
was intended to replace the skill and well-trained muscular efforts and

intelligent manipulation of the practised workman, and to imitate in

every detail the ordinary commercial article. Self-reliance, and the

power of readily discriminating between the first crude and imperfectly-
formed ideas that strike the mind, in contradistinction to the well-

considered theory on which any novel scheme really rests, allowed me
deliberately, and with full confidence, to enter on this new undertaking,

even though it entailed, to a large extent, the sacrifice of a small but
increasing business that had been laboriously built up during several
years of close application to it.
              DESIGNING BRONZE POWDER MACHINERY  63

If not with a light heart, at least with a stolid and unflinching
Iresolution,
              applied myself to the task thus deliberately self-imposed.
I IFirstly, had to reconsider all my rough plans ; had to arrange every

detail of the six different classes of machines necessary to prepare, to

manufacture, and to polish and colour the bronze ; all had to be

made automatic and self-controlling ; and when all these details

had been arranged from hand sketches and figured dimensions, the

labour of making the different working drawings of each machine
                                  I had, of course, to make all
to an accurate scale, was begun.

the necessary calculations of the strength requisite in the parts

subjected to strain ; of the best speed of working each machine
so as to secure the highest results ; then the size and proportions of

each of the six machines had to be estimated, so that each one could

do its part in the day's production, neither lagging behind nor doing

too much. This furnished me with laborious work at the drawing-

board for several months ; and when all was done, each of the machines
Ihad to be dissected, and
                           had to commence making complete nay,

even elaborate drawings, in detail, of every different piece required in

in each of these varied machines, and to so divide the work between

several engineers resident in different towns, that each had certain shaped
pieces to make which he supposed were individual parts of one machine,

whereas they were separate sections of several different machines, all

drawn to the same scale, and sometimes represented on the same sheet

of drawings. Elaborate specifications were thus rendered necessary,

because neither master nor workman could use his judgment, as he would

have done in the execution of any machine for a known and well-

understood purpose, the full details of which are usually embodied in a

complete drawing of the whole.
      After much personal labour and study, this part of the undertaking

was accomplished, and the making of all the machines was commenced.

IMeanwhile, sought for quiet, unobtrusive premises, with sufficient land

to build a factory and engine-house, and on which there was also a

dwelling-house for myself and family : for such premises must not be left

unguarded either by day or night. In the quiet suburb of St. Pancras

I Ifound just what wanted, viz., an old-fashioned, unostentatious, but
64 HENRY BESSEMER

comfortable house, lying some distance back from the high road, and
having a large garden in the rear. Such was old " Baxter House," the
scene of so many experiments, and the birthplace of several entirely new

manufactures.

IThe ground for the factory having been chosen, and a long lease
of the premises obtained,  had next to plan the necessary buildings.
One or two cardinal points were first determined. A substantial wall

was to separate the engine- and boiler-house from the factory proper,
into which the engine-driver could have no access or connection what-
ever, except in so far that the shafting from the 20 horse-power engine
passed through a stuffing-box in the wall of separation. Access to the

engine-house and coal -store was confined to a back entrance leading

into another street.

The factory proper was to have but one external door, opening

into a large hall, from which all the other rooms were separated by

locked doors ; there were no windows, except to this one outer room,
all light being obtained by means of double skylights, through which

no one could look ; and these were further secured by impregnable inside
sliding shutters. Adjoining the en trance -hall was a washing- and
dressing-room, as a change of clothes on going in and coming out

was imperative.
       Then came other important provisions rendered necessary by the

fact that the machinery was massive and very heavy, and no labourers
or other workmen could be admitted to assist in putting it together
and erecting it in its destined place. Concrete foundations and iron
bed-plates had been put in wherever necessary, with bolts inserted therein

corresponding with bolt-holes in the machine framing then being made.

Heavy beams were fixed on the walls crossing over the several places

where the weighty machines were to be erected, each beam having stout

eye-bolts inserted in it for the purpose of attaching a block-and-tackle
for hoisting. In order to facilitate the erection of all this machinery

Iby myself and my three unpractised assistants, had so divided the

large frame castings that no single piece would weigh over ten or fifteen

hundredweight.

     All the smaller shafts and driving-drums were put in place, the
                   BRONZE POWDER MACHINERY                 65

gas and water laid on, and Chubb's safety-locks were affixed to every
door before any of the machinery had arrived. The last workman had

already departed,  and silence reigned supreme in the empty building,
into which, from
five persons ever  that day forward, for probably twenty years, only

                   passed. In such a case secrecy must be absolute

to be "effective, and although mere vague curiosity induced many persons

Iof my intimate acquaintance to ask to be allowed to just go in and have
a peep,  never admitted anyone. Even my own sons were rigidly

Iexcluded until they were grown up. When mere lads, if they teased me
to let them in,    would sometimes say, " No, you will find much more
Iamusement at the theatres, and to-night you may go if you wish."

need scarcely say that this was greatly preferred.

Meanwhile, two steam engines and all other requisite appliances

had been erected in the engine-house, where the heavy gearing was

also located ; this communicated with the factory proper by two lines
of 7-in. diameter shafting, which passed through the party wall.

     A new phase in the undertaking was soon in active progress.

       From day to day, at odd times, one of Pickford's vans would bring
detached portions of the machinery, carefully packed in large wooden

cases, which were delivered into the entrance of the factory by ordinary
labourers, and there left to be further dealt with by ourselves alone.

The work, as a whole, had been admirably executed, and we succeeded
Iin putting together the several parts sooner than  expected. It

was with no small degree of satisfaction that we found this laborious

part of the undertaking completed, and the machines ready for work.

    IBut with the cessation of bodily labour, entered on a period of deep
Iand almost painful anxiety, for felt that my position in life for many
Ayears to come was at that moment about to be determined.
                                                           few

days would show if all these elaborate contrivances were based on sound

mechanical principles, and whether the mass of novel machinery,

occupying several large rooms, would perform its allotted task and

carry forward, step by step, the successive changes necessary to convert
in a single day a hundredweight of solid brass into countless millions

of shining, delicate particles known as bronze powder; or whether, on

the contrary, several thousand pounds, a year's increasing mental strain,
66 HENRY BESSEMER

and much laborious physical exertion, had been cast away and thrown

to the winds, leaving nothing behind but professional discredit, crushed

hopes, and the inevitable regret that waits on failure of every kind.

    I had, indeed, much reason for anxiety, for this was no simple

test of a modification of an old and well-known machine, but the trial

of a whole series of absolutely new mechanical inventions, each performing

entirely new processes, following on and dependent on each other, all

Iof which must succeed or the whole would prove a failure. But may

truly say that my hopes of success and my confidence in the whole
scheme had never been shaken, although a full appreciation of the

importance of the issue about to be tried necessarily caused me to feel

anxious and excited. While standing alone in the silent factory, face
Ito face with the giant whom, like Frankenstein,
                                                  had created, cold and
I Imotionless in all its grim reality, knew that on the morrow should,

as it were, breathe into its nostrils the breath of life, by simply turning

on the steam, when all those varied combinations of mechanism would

be instinct with motion, and essay the task of superseding human

labour and intelligence in the production of a material which, for

hundreds of years, both in China and Japan, as well as in Germany,

had been wholly dependent on human skill and intellect for its marvellous

delicacy and beauty.

Well, the time of trial came at last, and one by one the different

machines were tested. There were little hitches here and there, which

took some time to rectify, but gradually each machine was got to work,

and before the close of that eventful day absolute proof had been
Itobtained of the soundness and success of the whole scheme.
                                                              was an

immense relief from the severe mental strain of the few previous days,

such as those only can feel who have lived on hope for more than a

whole year, with a full knowledge that the time was approaching, day

by day, when all their cherished expectations were to be realised or

utterly destroyed.

The next thing of importance to the successful working of all this

machinery was to keep inviolate the secret of its character and mode

of action. Each different machine worked by itself in a room, the

door of which was secured by a Chubb's detector lock ; and, in addition
                   BRONZE POWDER MACHINERY  67

to this precaution, each machine was itself concealed in a complete case,

or covering, so that, without breaking open this case, no one could

see or understand either its internal structure or its mode of operation.

     It has often been remarked that the unforeseen is always sure to

happen, and thus it was in reference to the intense and ceaseless noise

in No. 2 Room, where thirty pieces of solid brass were being simul-

taneously operated upon at a very high speed, each piece throwing off

from its respective surface some 2000 or 3000 fine needle-like filaments

per minute. These fell in a continuous shower, and became so felted and

interlaced that it was not safe to attempt to lift any portion of the

accumulated mass by the naked hand, for with the slightest pressure
the hand was pierced, and dozens of these fine pieces, three-eighths of
an inch in length, entered the skin, and were found sticking to the

fingers in every direction, like the spines on a prickly pear, or the thorns
on the stem of a rose. These needle-like pieces owed their form to the

intense vibration of the machine, and each one of the millions of

filaments, as it was forcibly severed from the parent mass, uttered
its shrill protest, and helped to swell the fearful chorus. Let those who

have, happily, never heard this machine in motion, imagine the screech
of a hundred discordant fiddles, accompanied by the piercing screams of

as many locomotives, all bottled up in a small room, their shrill sounds

echoing and reverberating from wall to wall and from floor to ceiling,
until the very atmosphere seemed thick with the ceaseless roar, and

Ithe human voice at its highest pitch was wholly lost and inaudible.
This was a result  might reasonably have anticipated, knowing, as 1

did, what the machine had to do, but in reality it never crossed my

mind. Double doors covered with baize were found necessary to deaden

the sound, and prevent its penetrating into the main building, while

the machine itself was doomed thenceforward to work in absolute

solitude.

These little filaments of brass were mechanically fed in succession

into two differently constructed self-acting laminating machines consisting
of highly-polished chilled-iron rolls, 12 in. in diameter and 18 in. in

length, the brasses on the axes of which were pressed upon by massive

spiral springs, each of which required a force of three tons to compress
68 HENRY BESSEMER

it half an inch. This stream of filaments was conducted between the

rolls matted and felted together in inextricable confusion, and in this
state they had a strong tendency to unite and so weld themselves
together under pressure as to issue from the rolls with a smooth, con-
tinuous surface, resembling an ordinary sheet of solid brass. This would
soon have become too compact to separate and break up again, but
the tendency to unite was entirely overcome by putting about three
drops of olive oil to each pound of filaments, thus not only preventing
too strong an adhesion from taking place, but allowing all contiguous
surfaces to slide over each other, and become more or less polished.
The continuous passing and repassing through the rolls thus extended
the surfaces of the filaments, and made them gradually thinner and
thinner, until the whole charge under operation became soft and pliable,
and was finally reduced to a leafy, flaky powder of varying degrees of
fineness, the largest particles passing freely through a wire-gauze sieve
having 10,000 meshes to the square inch, so that no sifting operations
could possibly divide them into the ten different standard degrees of
fineness required by the trade.

       The crude powder, after passing through each of these two laminating
machines, was polished in an apparatus, into which it was perpetually
poured from a height of five or six feet, thus falling heavily on to a
quantity of bronze which occupied the lower part of the receiver, but
which in its turn was also lifted up and allowed to fall many thousands
of times. When falling in large quantities this stream of metallic
powder behaved very much like a heavy fluid, falling with considerable
force, and rebounding in powerful jets ; and thus by the friction of its
own particles rushing among each other, their surfaces became highly
 polished and much smoother to the touch.

        The material so far manufactured was then taken to the sorting-
room, where its separation into different grades of fineness was

 effected.

        What a remarkable contrast this room presented to the noisy
 cutting-room, for in this there was not a sound to attract the ear or
 to disturb the thoughts ! Quietly and noiselessly the separation took
 place ; just as the snowflakes silently fall and by a gentle breeze arrange
BRONZE POWDER MACHINERY                                       69

themselves in a beautifully-formed snow-drift, so this apparatus did its

appointed work, separating microscopic particles, inconceivably minute,

from those next them in size, and so on to the coarsest powder, which

was only used for inferior kinds of work.

As this mode of separating powder into various grades may be
Iuseful for many other purposes,
                                  will here give such a description of it

in detail as will make its action readily understood.

The arrangement consisted of a table about 40 ft. in length and

about 2 ft. 6 in. in width, covered with black varnished cloth, on

which the powder was slowly deposited ; a long mahogany box, or

tunnel, was inverted over the table, but was capable of being partially

lifted on hinges at one side, thus giving access for the removal of the

powder. At one end of the table a sheet-iron drum, or churn, was

supported on hollow axes or trunnions, both of which were     left open.
The interior of the drum was provided with inclined shelves.   Rotatory
motion was given to the drum by a belt passing round it ;     the effect

of this slow rotation of the drum was to lift the powder, and allow it

again to fall in a thinly-divided shower on those shelves which occupied

the lower part of the drum. A gentle current of air was caused to enter

the outer end of the drum's axis, and, passing through the falling shower
of powder, it emerged through the opposite axis, and quietly flowed along
the tunnel already mentioned, carrying with it an almost imperceptible

cloud of fine particles, which were slowly and gradually deposited

upon the varnished cloth covering of the table. The largest and

heaviest deposited themselves quite near the entrance of the tunnel,

and others of smaller size fell farther away, the very finest reaching the

distant end of the tunnel, where there was a raised box, or cupboard,

in which were two cylindrical bags made of very closely-woven silk,

Atheir lower ends open to the tunnel and their upper ends closed.

blowing fan of ordinary construction was used to exhaust air from the

cupboard, causing the silk bags to become inflated, and the air in
the interior of the tunnel to pass through them ; this was effected
so gently through some 50 square-feet surface of silk as to detain in

the interior any minute particles of bronze which had not fallen on to

the table, while a very light current of air was steadily maintained, the
70 HENRY BESSEMER

force of which was accurately controlled by a large and very lightly-

balanced valve in connection with the cupboard.

     It is difficult to imagine the beauty of this golden snowdrift

of 40 ft. in length, varying at every foot in appearance, and ranging

from pieces too coarse for use, and which required further lamination,

to the extremely minute particles arrested by the silk surfaces, and

which, between the fingers, felt like the dust of pure plumbago, or some

other wonderfully smooth lubricant. The contents of these silk bags

were called No. 2000, and have been sold as high as one hundred

shillings per pound. Pure copper powder so produced was supplied

by me for many years to Messrs. Elkington, of Birmingham, for

metallising the surfaces of elastic non-metallic moulds employed by

them in the production of works of art by the electro -deposition of

metals.
IThus far
           have described the manufacture of raw uncoloured

bronze, in which state it was used for many of the paler shades. But

an almost endless variety of different colours may be produced by varying

degrees of oxidation, the colour being in part dependent on the nature

and quantity of the other metals with which copper is alloyed, and in part

on the length of time and on the degree of temperature to which the

powder is exposed, while in a heated state, to the action of the air.

One of the great difficulties in producing a beautiful uniform tint

in bronze arises from the fact that almost all tints, more or less perfect,

can be obtained by varying degrees of oxidation, even of pure copper ;
a slight oxidation gives it a pale red-gold colour, which soon becomes

richer and more golden, and passes on to citron, orange, and, in a short

time, to crimson, from which it changes rapidly into claret, purple,
green, pale-green, green-gold, and then still paler, until it is almost
white ; it then passes again to gold, and through all the series of colours,
but less perfect than the first time. Now, it will be readily understood

that every one of the countless millions of particles in 20 Ib. of bronze

powder should, as far as possible, receive precisely the same temperature

for the same length of time, and be equally exposed to the current of

air : then a beautiful uniform tint of colour will necessarily result. But
if some parts of the mass are made hotter than others, or are longer
               BRONZE POWDER MACHINERY                                                   71

exposed to heat or to a more perfect current of air, the powder may
consist of a mixture of almost every imaginable shade of colour, be
really of no standard colour at all, and thus be rendered worthless.

This delicate colouring operation was performed with unerring

certainty in a gun-metal revolving vessel, mounted on trunnions, some-

what similar to a steel converter, for the purpose of discharging its

contents rapidly at the right moment ; this vessel was heated by an
easily-controllable Bunsen burner of large size, and was provided with
a means of taking out a small sample every minute for examination

without interrupting its action. This important and most delicate and

difficult operation was thus performed mechanically, and the device was,

perhaps, one of the most perfect machines it has ever been my good

fortune to design.                                                       had to justify the

    IStill there was one more tedious task to perform.
faith of my friend Young that " when the time comes you will be sure

to find out all the proper alloys." One of a range of small buildings
at Baxter House was fitted up for this purpose with a powerful air-

furnace, for actual commercial working ; and a smaller one for the

necessary series of experiments in the production of alloys that would,

when oxidised, produce the desired colours, but that must, nevertheless,

be tough and ductile. There was already known to metallurgists a series

of copper alloys passing under different names, and more or less
resembling gold in colour ; thus we had " Pinchbeck," " Mannheim
Gold," " Red Tomback," " Dutch Pan Metal," " Mosaic Gold," etc., the

nature of all of which had to be investigated. Then came the question

of the best source of pure copper as the base of all the alloys to be
Imade.
        tried best English copper, red Japan copper, and Russian
I Icharcoal copper, made into coin.
                                                                         may say that have, since then,

melted scores of barrels of Russian kopeks, on account of their purity.

Dutch pan metal as the admirers of some of our old Dutch paintings
               it,
                     a is,

                                             is

                                                                      ;
may easily imagine, a beautiful gold-coloured brass, which               I       have used

                                                                               is
extensively, and which owes its beauty to its purity and mode of
production. One of the ores of zinc, " Lapis Calaminares,"
                                                                                   put into

the lower part of large crucible small fragments of broken crucibles

are laid upon  and on this  placed granulated or shot copper (pro-

                                                                                  OF HF

                                                                         UNIVERSITY
                                                                         1

                                                                                 I
72 HENRY BESSEMER

duced by pouring molten copper into water) ; the crucible is then
covered over, the zinc contained in the ore is volatilised by heat, and,

passing up through the stratum of broken pieces of crucible, is

absorbed by the copper, which becomes a beautiful gold-coloured brass.

Those impurities in the zinc ore which are not volatile remain at

the bottom, and do not contaminate the gold-coloured alloy, which

is afterwards melted in another crucible.

The production of a new tint of colour was the aim of the trade,

and, with this view, a whole series of alloys were made with copper as

the base. Alloys with bismuth, nickel, tungsten, molybdenum, tin,

cadmium, and silver, were tried, the latter in the proportion of three of

silver to seven of copper ; this made a most beautiful cream-coloured

bronze in its natural state, and a brilliant peacock purple when fully

oxidised.

One of the most successful novelties was a margarate of copper,

obtained by using animal fat in the oxidising process, producing mar-

garate acid, and making a superb green : large quantities of this bronze

found a ready sale amongst French clockmakers in Paris.

Some of the rare metals referred to were extremely difficult to

reduce from their ores or oxides ; but as they were not wanted in a
Ipure state, but merely for the purpose of alloying,
                                                      found it much

easier to reduce their refractory oxides with oxides of copper. In this

way the oxide of molybdenum was easily reduced in combination with

oxide of copper intimately blended with a black flux, consisting simply

of resin in a melted state mixed with charcoal powder. The mineral

wolfram readily yielded an alloy when mixed with fine granulated copper,

or with copper oxide, but alone it proved very refractory.

    I was quite unable to make any white metal alloy hard enough to

be made into powder by my machinery. All the soft tin alloys welded

by pressure into a perfectly indivisible mass, whilst the harder alloys,

such as German silver, Chinese tuteneg, and other nickel compounds,
were not white enough to take the place of the so-called " silver

powder" produced in the old mode of manufacture by the further beating
Iof thin tin foil.
                    was much annoyed at being unable to execute orders

for "silver bronze," and had to make an exchange with the German
        BRONZE POWDER MACHINERY                    73

importers, giving them gold bronze for their cheaper white powder.
This changing " old lamps for new ones" annoyed me very much ; but

knowing that brass pins are whitened by a film of tin deposited on them

Iby boiling them in a bath of tartaric acid and tin shavings, deter-

mined to try if this system could be employed to whiten the brass

powder, which we could make so easily and cheaply. There were two

great obstacles in the way which threatened to render the scheme

impossible, viz., the probability that these minute particles of brass

would, in the act of being coated with tin, become united and stick

together, and also that the tin deposit, being naturally dull, like "frosted

silver," would fail in being sufficiently bright.
I IHowever, after due consideration,
        planned a machine which

had reason to hope would overcome both these difficulties ; it consisted

of a brass churn with a steam-jacket, so as to enable it to boil any

water contained in its interior. Into this churn was put a strong
solution of carbonate of soda not tartaric acid as usual ; about 20 Ib.

of bright brass powder was then put in, to which was added 12 Ib. of

small spherical shot, formed of pure tin by pouring molten tin into oil.
The churn was then put in action, so that the tin shot not only

provided the necessary metal for solution, but by their continuous motion,

as the churn revolved, counteracted any tendency of the bronze particles

to become matted together by the deposited tin ; while the friction
of all these rubbing surfaces in constant motion entirely prevented

the dull "frosted" deposit from taking place, but on the contrary gave

a beautiful polished surface to the bronze. This process was a great

success, and white bronze so produced was freely purchased by the

trade.

       This apparatus suggested the deposition of real gold on the surface
of the bronze. Some few costly experiments were made with this object,

but were not successful. Probably at some future time a method

of carrying out this idea may be discovered, and a large and profitable

trade secured to the fortunate inventor.           Ion, had taken offices
       While all these investigations were going
                                                   sale of bronze to the
in London Wall, and commenced the actual

trade ; a traveller was engaged, and he sent in his first small order
                                                                                                                            L
74 HENRY BESSEMER

for two pounds of pale-gold bronze for the Coalbrookdale Iron Company

at eighty shillings per pound net.

The new bronze caused quite a stir in the trade. The locality

of its origin and its mode of manufacture were kept a profound secret.
Many consumers gladly purchased it on the favourable terms offered ;

while others could under no circumstances whatever be prevailed upon

to give it a trial, even long after our trade was well established. As
Ian example,
                 may mention one case in which my traveller made many

unsuccessful attempts to do business with a very large consumer of bronze

in the City, who used it in the manufacture of paper-hangings, and who

said that he obtained his bronze from a descendant of Baron Scheller,

an old German, who happened to be a large customer of ours, and

who, for more than two years, had purchased a particular quality

of our bronze, which we afterwards found that he supplied to this

manufacturer at twenty shillings per pound above the price we charged

to him. The old German died rather suddenly, and the paper manu-

facturer was informed that for years he had been using our bronze,

improved (in price only) by passing through the old German's hands ;
he looked very crestfallen at the discovery, but kept on using the same

quality, which, he told my traveller, no one in the trade but Scheller

could equal.

       The sharp competition with the German importers was going on

Ipretty fiercely, when one day was asked to receive a deputation from

the trade, who came to expostulate with me for "spoiling the business,
Iand ruining the trade and myself at the same time."
                                                                     told them
Ithat they were labouring under a great mistake : that if could main-

tain existing prices, it would make my fortune. They asked in all
seriousness, " Can you really sell bronze at your present price without
I Iabsolute        "
           loss       replied that  could do so, and that if they chose
                 ?

to deal with me, and supply my article to the consumer instead of

importing;            would allow them discount of 25 per cent, on present
                                    a
     I iIt,
                                                                  ;
prices that would withdraw my traveller and in future supply no

consumer below 'their retail prices. They took time to confer with

their brethren, and finally accepted my terms, and from that time    I

became exclusively    a  wholesale manufacturer.
                          THE MANUFACTURE OP GOLD PAINT                                                 75

    I was anxious to find new outlets for the bronze, and saw clearly
Ithat if could use it as a " paint," it would answer for a great variety

of purposes where a loose powder could not be applied ; for instance,

it could be used for gilding the raised stucco patterns on the ceilings

of rooms, for temporary theatrical decorations, etc. ; but quick-

drying turpentine varnishes all destroyed the bronze,                                                   and turned it

Iblack. After much trouble and study of the subject,                                                    found that the

succinic acid in spirits of turpentine, and some other acids found in

resinous gums and in burnt oil, could be neutralised by mixing the

Ivarnish with dry lime, and devised a novel system of filtration, whereby

all the lime, after neutralising the acid, was perfectly removed. Thus,
my new " gold paint " was brought out, and those who knew how to

      it it,
                     it

                                          ;

                                                   a

                                        it it

                                                                          a
                                                                                                     a
use and what substances could be successfully used upon, were

delighted with            while the attempts of others were complete fiasco,

and was by them condemned as failure, notwithstanding which as

many as 80,000 bottles of    have been sold in the course of a year.

Among its various uses, very odd one was due to the 'cuteness of a
Birmingham manufacturer of " coffin furniture."
                                                 Instead of stamping

in brass the variety of ornaments used on the sides of coffins, he

stamped them in the cheaper metal zinc, and made them beautiful with

gold paint they lasted much longer than was necessary for the purpose,
    is I
and only turned black after some time.
           ;
                    ;On one occasion, when giving an order for varnish at the factory
                       ;
of Messrs. Hayward and Sons, they asked                             would like to go
                          ;

                                 I
                                    I

                                                                if

                                                       I
through the works and as always take an interest in any manufacture

that  am unacquainted with,  accepted their kind offer, and passed a,

very interesting hour or two. Everything was shown to me and lucidly

explained but there was one thing which seemed to stand out from

all the rest, which, thought, was a wasteful and unnecessary source
                          II
                                             I
of expense, and so        expressed myself to Mr. Hayward at the time.
It only another of the many proofs have had of the very different

impressions which the same facts make on differently constituted

minds here was an important fact, presented to me for the first time,

but which my friend Mr. Hayward, during forty years of practical

experience, had had every day before him, but had never seen, at least from
76 HENRY BESSEMER

my point of view.             I said to him : "Why do you not do so-and-so,
                                      "
and  save     this  great     cost       He was much struck with the idea ; and
                                    ?

when we returned to the offices to partake of a biscuit and a glass
I If Iof sherry,
                    said : "  you will give me a sheet of paper,  will draw
Iyou a sketch of a simple apparatus which,
I Ieffect have described."                  doubt not, will have the

                                         made the sketch, which my friend received

in a very kindly spirit, albeit with a full share of doubt as to the

possibility of its effecting so great a desideratum by such simple means.

His son, Mr. Sharp Hayward, whose more recent chemical studies gave

him an advantage in forming an opinion, unbiassed by long routine

Ipractice, said : " will see this tried as soon as possible "; and so the

matter passed, and was soon quite forgotten by me. Some two or
Ithree months later, however, when
IBaxter House,                              was sitting at breakfast at

                    saw a horse and cart stop at my front garden gate,
Itand the driver bring a letter up to the door.
                                                    was from my friend

the varnish manufacturer ; he told me briefly that they had tried the
Imethod suggested to him on the occasion of my visit to his works ;
Iit was, he said, a perfect success, and that
                                                    should greatly add to

the obligation conferred      I          in speaking of the circumstance at any
                                    if,
future time, omitted to mention the nature of the improvement had
              aI                                                  aI
suggested. The letter went on to say that one of his sons was wine-

grower in Madeira, and, having had a splendid vintage, he had sent
                    pipe of Madeira as a present " and," said my friend Mr.
his father                                  it
                                                  ;
Hayward, "it at once struck me that
                                                           it
                                            was a fortunate opportunity,

accidentally placed in my way, of acknowledging my indebtedness to

you will you, therefore, oblige me by accepting                as souvenir of
     ;                                                         a

your visit to our varnish manufactory, which has been of so much

advantage to me." Of course,             I  accepted with great pleasure this

most welcome gift.                       had the wine bottled, and in due time

     turned out to be of excellent quality, and     may safely say that
I it                                             I
    I;
     have never drank of wine which gave me so much pleasure as this
          it
did was treasured up, and always reserved for special occasions,

and believe that at this time of writing there are still some few

bottles remaining, safely stowed away in my cellar.            I  shall have

occasion to refer again to this incident later on.
                           " CHARLTON HOUSE n                 77

The bronze business was now progressing most satisfactorily.  I
Ihad given up many of my former employments, and felt that
Iindulge in some luxuries from which                        might

                                               had hitherto carefully
            I thought that a brougham would be very useful to me,
abstained.

and, at the same time, a source of much convenience and pleasure to
Imy wife and children ; but
I IHouse.                    had no suitable place for it at Baxter

            imagined that  needed a meadow for a horse, but it is
Imost probable that it was really for myself that
                                                   felt the need of

" pastures new "; for the instinct of the village boy was evidently in
Ithe ascendant, and
                      sighed for the large kitchen garden, and the

poultry-yard, and other rural delights, the very thoughts of which had

long slumbered and been forgotten. The result of all these aspirations

was the taking on, a fourteen years' lease, of a house, the grounds of

which abutted on the beautifully-wooded domain of Lady Burdett Coutts,
Iat Highgate ; and here
                           built a large conservatory, kept my cows

and Shetland ponies, played at cricket or quoits on summer evenings,

and could sometimes, in my quiet walks round my own meadows,

almost fancy myself at my dear old birthplace, Charlton, and myself
                      I had given the name " Charlton House"
again a village boy.
Ito my residence at Highgate, and while living there
                                                      used to

go down to Baxter House every morning to business, which, as far

as the bronze powder was concerned, was conducted almost entirely

Iwithout my assistance; so that had ample time to devote to the many

new and interesting subjects that seemed for ever to present themselves

to my mind and demand investigation.

    I had a good light drawing-office fitted up at Baxter House, and

was always at work there on some novel invention, for which patents

were being taken out ; in some cases experiments were made on the

premises, and all sorts of machinery and furnaces were erected to put the

ideas to the test of practice. So much did the work at the drawing-board
Iincrease, that on one occasion, when much pressed,
                                                     applied to my

friend, Mr. Bunning, the City Architect, for the loan of an assistant

Idraughtsman to finish some patent drawings. " Well," he said, " think
I can let you have a pupil of mine who is just out of his time ; he

is a clever architect, an expert at the drawing-board, and is a gentle-
78 HENRY BESSEMER

manly young fellow, in whom you can place implicit confidence." He

then called the young man into the office to see me, and this was my

first introduction to my friend and partner, and afterwards my brother-

in-law, Mr. Robert Longsdon. We soon arranged terms, and he came

to Baxter House to assist me for a while with my drawings ; we worked

Iside by side in the same room for many months, during which time

gained something in architectural taste and knowledge, and he gained

from me, and from his daily occupation, a further insight into engineering.

It is not surprising, under these circumstances, that a real and solid

Ifriendship should spring up between us ; after a time proposed that

we should take more convenient offices in the City, and do something

Ijointly in the way of architecture and engineering, while was still to

devote myself chiefly to my inventions.

      We fixed on No. 4, Queen Street Place, for our City offices, and

Iit was from there that so many of my patented inventions were dated.
   had now, for the most part, discontinued my labours at Baxter House,

except for the erection of experimental machinery or furnaces. On one

of these occasions, while busily engaged there, our local policeman called

in to see me on a private matter that had exercised his mind very much

for the previous two days. He told me that he thought my house was
going to be robbed, for it had been watched from early morning until

late at night by a person stationed at one of the windows of a public-

house that commanded a view of the front door of Baxter House. He

said that the man was of gentlemanly appearance, but he did not think

he was a member of the "swell mob"; and, in fact, it was to him quite
Ia mystery.          " Do                                   "  " Probably so,"
             asked,        you  think  he  is  a  German
Ihe said. " At any rate he is a foreigner."               ?

                                                  commended the officer for
Ihis vigilance, and giving him a small gratuity, told him to let me

know if anything further occurred.

    I at once formed the opinion that the person referred to was

watching to see some of the numerous workpeople, who, he might

naturally suppose, were employed in my bronze factory, and of whom

he might try to obtain information as to my secret process. Now, it

so happened that, with the exception of my engine-driver, there were

no operatives employed, but only my three relatives, who never left the
                              A GERMAN SPY                    79

office all at one time, and when they did leave might well be taken for

office clerks, who would know nothing of the manufacture ; and so the

foreigner watched in vain for an opportunity of bribing some of my

imaginary workmen.
I was very desirous of probing this mystery, however, for which
Ipurpose
            called into my office my engine-driver, a steady, honest
IScotchman, who had long been in my employ.
                                                         told him what the

police officer had communicated to me, and arranged that he should go
just as he was, with his shirt -sleeves tucked up (the very beau-ideal of a
British workman), over to the public-house, leaving by my front door,

so as to be observed by the man on the watch, and take something to

drink at the bar. " If," said I, " the stranger comes down and asks
questions, say you don't know, but will enquire and let him know ; if

he offers you anything, acceptI ;I it,  and he will then believe that he can
                                   is ?I
trust you." No sooner had my engineer entered the public-house
than the stranger came downstairs and asked him " Do you work at
the bronze-powder factory opposite " "Yes," was the reply. " Why:
ask you," said the stranger, " this
I                                                    :   have invented a machineI

     I                                                I

            I'for making hooks and eyes/ and        want some clever engineering firm

to make me these machines       have been told that you have beautiful

machinery over the way, and         should like to give an order for my

"Imachines to so eminent an engineer do you know who made all the;

machinery at your works "           don't know," said the wary Scotchman,
                    ?

" but   can enquire." "Well, "said the stranger," meet me here when

you leave work to-night, and    if  you can let me know who made your

machinery,      shall reward you handsomely." All this was told me

on my engine-driver's return from the public-house, and was determined

to have an interview with the stranger.              I  told my engineer to meet

him as arranged, and simply to tell him that he had ascertained that

the whole of the machinery at the bronze factory was planned by a

Mr. Henry, who resided at No.                     North Street, New Road, and that
                    I
                      I

                                     4,

                                                 ;
he would probably be there to-morrow at 11 A.M. This was my

brother's address, to which     went before the hour named, telling

my brother's servant that expected a gentleman to call at 11 o'clock

to ask  if  Mr. Henry was at home that she was to say yes, and ask
80 HENRY BESSEMER

Ihim into the dining-room, where would await his arrival. Punctual
Ito the hour the stranger came.
Ihis communication. " Have       offered him a chair, and awaited
                            the pleasure," he said, " of seeing Mr.

Henry, the engineer who designed all the machinery at the bronze
I Ifactory at St. Pancras ?" " Yes," replied, " designed the whole of it."
I" Ah," said my visitor, " am so glad thus to make your acquaintance ;
Ifor this purpose
                   have come over from Bavaria, and wish you to
Iconstruct a duplicate of it for me." " Well,"
                                                replied," this is not
Ipossible, for have quite given up mechanical engineering, and am so
Ideeply engaged with some new inventions that could not even undertake
to furnish you with plans or drawings of the machinery." " But," said
Ithe stranger, " shall pay you anything you demand in reason ; so it

may answer your purpose to lay aside other things for a time." He

I Ipressed me very hard, and did not know how to get rid of him.

knew exactly what his object was in watching my premises, and was
satisfied. " Well," he said, " at least you can give me some idea of the
Inature of the process, and shall pay you any fees you like to name."
I "I Ireplied :
cannot accept a fee for any information may give you,

nor would it be fair on my part to furnish you with detailed plans
Iof the machinery
                   have constructed for another manufacturer ; but
Ias you have come such a long distance, may just tell you that to

make cheap bronze powder, you need not go further than making your

alloy in what you call ' long metal '; you will not require any parchment

books to beat in, and you will avoid the use of gold-beater's skins, and

all the expensive labour of beating it into thin leaves. At the Baxter

House factory neither parchment nor gold-beater's skins are ever used ; and

Iyou will be surprised to hear that have no secret to tell you. The

principle on which they work is so simple that a child could understand

it in a moment ; you know, of course, what ordinary millstones, used

to grind flour, are like. Well, suppose you take two circular discs,

say, 2 ft. in diameter ; divide their surface into eight compartments

by radial lines, and cut small parallel sloping grooves, diagonally arranged

in each compartment : then you have a pair of what may be called ' steel

millstones,' which may be driven by usual wheel-gearing ; cut up your

thin sheets of long metal, with a pair of shears, into pieces about 2 in.
              A GERMAN SPY                                                                                                   81

  square, which a boy can feed into a round hole in the centre of

  the upper millstone, into which a thick stream of soap and water

  is constantly running. You cannot fail to understand the principle

  involved, and you will be not a little astonished to see the result of this

  simple operation. As far as this information is concerned, you are perfectly

              and must now close the interview." My visitor was
  welcome to  it,

                   I

                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                a if

                                                        I
  delighted, and profuse in his compliments and thanks.                                                                    have often

  wondered whether, on his return to Bavaria, he tried to put in practice

  this impossible mode of making bronze powder      he did, the dis-

  appointment he would experience would be only     fitting punishment

  for his meanness in trying to bribe those who were in possession of my

  secret.

    Before long my bronze powder was fully recognised in the trade,

  and found its way into every State in Europe and America                                                                   had,
                                 I
                                               I

                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                     it
  in fact, become the one staple manufacture        had so long and so

  earnestly sought for, and which  hoped would some day replace and

  render unnecessary the constantly-recurring small additions to the business

II  had so laboriously built up. The bronze powder business, however, no

  longer required my personal attention, and was well managed by those

    had chosen as the guardians of secret, which was long and honourably
              a
                                                 a

                                              it
kept. The large profits derived from not only furnished me with the

means of obtaining all reasonable pleasures and social enjoyments, but,

what was even greater boon in my particular case, they provided the

funds demanded by the ceaseless activity of my inventive faculties, with-

out my ever having to call in the assistance of the capitalist to help

me through the heavy costs of patenting and experimenting on my too

numerous inventions. The importance of this steady supply of the
sinews of war may be easily imagined from the fact that have obtained
                                                    I

no less than 110 separate patents, the mere stamp duties and annuities
on which have gone far to absorb 10,000, to say nothing of legal fees,

and the costly labour of writing long specifications, coupled with the
work of making the necessary drawings required to illustrate and define

the precise nature of these varied inventions. Only about a dozen

of these inventions are referred to in this hasty ramble through fields of

thought and labour the whole,      thoroughly described and gone into
              ;
                                                                                                         M
                               if
82 HENRY BESSEMER

on their merits, would utterly weary, and wear out the patience of, my

most indulgent reader.
IWhile referring to patents for inventions,
                                                     cannot refrain from

pointing to this particular invention of bronze powder as an example

that may advantageously be borne in mind by those short-sighted

persons who object to grants of letters-patent. There can be no doubt
of the fact that the security offered by the patent law to persons who

expend large sums of money and valuable time in pursuing novel

inventions, results in many new and important improvements in our

manufactures, which otherwise it would be sheer madness for men to

waste their energy and their money in attempting. But in this particular

case the conditions were most unfavourable for patenting, owing to the

fact that the article produced was only a powder, and could not be

identified as having been made by any particular form of mechanism.

Therefore it could not be adequately protected by patent ; moreover, by
my machinery, the cost of production, if only paid for at the ordinary

rates of wages, did not exceed one-thirtieth of the selling price of the

article. This fact alone offered an irresistible temptation to others to

evade the inventor's claims, and so rendered the patent law a most

inadequate protection. On the other hand, the great value of a small

bulk of the material made it possible to carry on the manufacture in

secret, and this method of manufacture was rendered the more feasible

by making each different class of machine self-acting, and thereby dis-

pensing entirely with a host of skilled manipulators. It may therefore

be fairly considered, so far as this particular article was concerned, that

there were, in effect, no patent laws in existence.

Now let us see what the public has had to pay for not being able
Ito give this security to the inventor. To illustrate this point,
                                                                   may

repeat the simple fact that the first order for bronze powder obtained

by my traveller was for two pounds of pale-gold, at eighty shillings
Iper pound net, for the Coalbrookdale Iron Company.
                                                     may further
Istate that, in consequence of the necessity for strict secrecy,
                                                                   had

made arrangements with three young men (my wife's brothers), to whom

salaries were paid far beyond the cost of mere manual labour (of which,
indeed, but little was required). My friend Mr. Young desired to occupy
                   THE MANUFACTURE OP BRONZE POWDER                83

the position of sleeping partner only, and not be troubled with any

Idetails of the manufacture ; so entered into a contract with him to

pay all salaries, find all raw materials, pay rent, engine power, and bring
the whole produce of the manufactory into stock, in one-ounce packages,

Iready for delivery, at a cost, for all qualities, of five shillings and sixpence

per pound ; after which he and shared equally all profits of the sale.

It is rather a curious coincidence that the one ounce bottles of gold

paint were labelled five shillings and sixpence each, off which the retailer

was allowed a liberal discount.

Had the invention been patented, it would have become public

property in fourteen years from the date of the patent, after which

period the public would have been able to buy bronze powder at its

present market price, viz., from two shillings and threepence to two

shillings and ninepence per pound. But this important secret was kept

for about thirty-five years, and the public had to pay excessively high

prices for twenty-one years longer than they would have done had

the invention become public property in fourteen years, as it would
have been if patented. Even this does not represent all the disadvantage

resulting from secret manufactures. While every detail of production was

a profound secret, there were no improvements made by the outside

public in any one of the machines employed during the whole thirty-five

years ; whereas during the fourteen years, if the invention had been

patented and published, there would, in all probability, have been

many improved machines invented, and many novel features applied

to totally different manufactures.

    I have lingered long over this subject of bronze powder, because it

is one which has had great influence on my career ; it was taken up at

a period when my energy and my endurance, and my faith in my own
Ipowers, were at their highest ; and as
                                         look on all the incidents

                   through the lapse of time and the many changes of the
surrounding  it,

                  it

                                  I
                                                   I

                                                                                                                           a
fifty years since  was undertaken, wonder how        had the courage

to attack a subject so complicated and so difficult, and one on which

there were no data to assist me. There were not even the details

of former failures to hold up the finger of warning, or point out

possible path to pursue, for no one had yet ventured to try and replace
84 HENRY BESSEMER

the delicate manipulation which experts had made their own, both in

Japan and China, where texts or prayers printed with bronze were

Ioffered up at the shrine of Confucius two thousand years before had

Iever seen a particle of bronze powder.
           cannot conclude this imperfect account of the bronze powder

manufacture without a tribute to those on whose scrupulous integrity

hung the whole value of this invention from day to day through all

those long years. The eldest brother of my wife had previously been

connected with the watch manufacture in London, while the next to
Ihim in age had not yet commenced his career ; and
                                                    could offer a

position sufficiently remunerative to induce both of them to assist in

carrying on the bronze manufacture. The younger brother, Mr. W. D.

Allen, had been with me as a pupil for a year or two ; finding him a

Ibright, intelligent lad, when he was about to leave school, prevailed
Iupon his father to let me have charge of him, and impart, as far as

was able, some knowledge of engineering. Thus, living in the same house

with me, he grew up more like one of my own sons than a brother-in-

law. In due time he also took up his position in the bronze works,

and kept my secret with the same silent caution as his elder brothers

had done. He also assisted me in my early steel experiments at Baxter
IHouse, and, later on, when
                             determined to build a steel works at
ISheffield, the great confidence
                                  felt in his judgment and integrity

induced me to offer him a partnership. He became the managing

partner of Messrs. Bessemer and Co., of Sheffield, and after four-
Iteen years of the most successful management,
                                                and each of the

other partners retired from the business, leaving Mr. Allen in sole

possession of the works, which he purchased at a sum mutually agreed

upon.

       Many of my readers will be more or less acquainted with Mr. W.
D. Allen, whose intimate knowledge of every detail of the Bessemer
process enabled him to pay large dividends to the present Limited
Company, even in bad times. Thus my brother-in-law's position in life
was assured ; his brother John had died several years previously, and

there only remained his brother Richard to carry on the business at
Baxter House.
THE MANUFACTURE OP BRONZE POWDER  85

    IIn closing these details of the bronze powder manufacture, may

say that, later on, the handsome royalties paid by my steel licencees
rendered the bronze powder business no longer necessary to me as a

Isource of income ; and had then the extreme satisfaction of presenting

the works to my brother-in-law, Richard Allen, who had, with so much
caution, successfully kept, for more than thirty years, a secret for
which, he perfectly well knew, some thousands of pounds would have
been given him at any moment.
CHAPTEK VI

IMPROVEMENTS IN SUGAR MANUFACTURE

TN Ithe early part of the year 1849,  had formed an intimate

-*- acquaintance with a Mr. Cromartie, a Jamaica sugar-planter, and

at many of our friendly meetings we had discussed the question

of the sugar manufacture as then carried on in the West Indian

IIslands. The more heard of the state of this important industry, the
Imore astonished became on finding out how rude, how unmechanical,

and how unscientific were many of the processes then employed, not only

in extracting the saccharine juices of the cane, but also in its after-

treatment. By a curious coincidence, at this very period the imperfection

of the Colonial sugar manufacture had attracted the attention of the

Society of Arts, and his Royal Highness Prince Albert had taken a

very special interest in this subject, and generously offered a gold medal

to be awarded to the person who should, during the ensuing year, effect

the greatest improvement in the mode of expressing the saccharine
Ijuice of the sugar cane.
                           was much interested on hearing this, and
Iapplied myself to the problem with great zest, for
Icontest was to be an unusually sharp one.           heard that the

                                            was informed that the

manufacturers of Colonial sugar machinery looked on it as a question

that would decide which firm was in future to do the bulk of the

Colonial engineering work, and that powerful vested interests were

supposed to be at stake. This rendered it the more necessary that

I should make every effort to gain such a knowledge of the subject

as would enable me to devise a machine capable of extracting, as

completely as possible, the whole of the juice from the cane. I, therefore,

in the first place, obtained from Madeira a bundle of sugar canes, and

I I Imay say that up to that time had never seen a cane. Those

had ordered to be sent to London arrived fresh and full of juice, as
                       SUGAR MANUFACTURE                       87

I had directed that their ends should be dipped in melted pitch, so as

Ij Ifto prevent decay, and the escape of any juice from them.
These canes were from  in. to  in. in diameter, having dividing

knots at from 5 in. to 7 in. apart, throughout their length. The cane

consists of an outer tubular part of hard fibrous wood, thinly coated

with very hard pure silica ; the interior of the thin wooden tube is filled

with a soft pithy matter, almost like a sponge, saturated with juice,

of which the ripe mature cane contains about 88 to 90 per cent, of its

                FIG. 17. SUGAR-CANE PASSING BETWEEN ROLLS

Iwhole weight.  put short lengths of these canes to many tests in

different ways, and especially noted their great elasticity ; a 6 -in. length,

suddenly pressed between two flat surfaces, would lie in a complete

pool of juice, and if the pressure were quickly released, the flattened

elastic tube would again expand and as quickly reabsorb a very large
Iportion of the fluid with which it was in contact. Here,
                                                               saw at a

glance, was the weak point in the roller-mill, in which the cane quickly

enters between a pair of rolls, and is for the moment collapsed. But
as it emerges from them it again expands by its elasticity, drawing

into the expanding spongy mass a large portion of the juice, which is
88 HENRY BESSEMER

rapidly flowing in contact with over the lower roll of the mill. This will
it,
                                                   is it,

                                                                                           A,

                                                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                               it
                                                                                                                                                                       B

                                                                                                                                      a is
be readily understood by reference to the engraving, Fig. 17, page 87,
showing in section a pair of iron rolls A, between which a cane

passing in the direction shown by arrows. It will be observed that

at the central part the cane                crushed very thin but as emerges,

     in part, recovers its former dimensions, and in doing so absorbs
very large percentage of the juice previously expressed.

These and other observations, carefully made and noted at the

time, forced on my mind the conviction that no form of roller-mill

could, from the inherent nature of its action, give satisfactory results;
and that a slower and longer continued pressure on the cane must

be resorted to,      6 6 ifIthe greater part of this valuable fluid was to be

extracted.               it

By means of the hydraulic press, 86 per cent, of juice could be

obtained but this system was far too slow, and entailed so much
         ;
labour as to render impossible to deal with the enormous mass of canes
             a
grown on moderate-sized plantation. Following, however, the general

idea of the press, designed an entirely novel system of extracting juice
from canes, the main feature of which was the cutting of the cane into

lengths of about in., thus leaving both ends of these short pieces open
for the escape of the juice, instead of operating in the usual way upon

canes of ft. to ft. in length, having numerous transverse knots or
         64
partitions, which effectually prevented any escape of the juice endwise.

The two convex surfaces of a pair of rolls of              ft. in diameter, pressed on
less than in. of cane, at any moment, and                    they revolved as slowly
                                            6

                                                       if 2
as five revolutions per minute, the in. of cane passing between them

commenced and finished the period of pressure in just one second. In the

cane press about to be described, every one of these open-ended                        in.
                                                             a

                                                                                    ;

                                                                                    6
lengths would be subjected to intense pressure for a period of two and

a-half minutes in practice, has been found that the juice was vigor-
it

      I
                                        ;

                                 a

                                        it
ously given out for the first minute, and then gradually declined finally
ceasing to yield one drop more of juice for about half minute before

    was discharged from the open end of the press tube.

      In order that this new system of continuous pressure might be fairly

tested,     erected  complete press and steam engine combined, at my
SUGAR MANUFACTURE                                                                                                                             89

Iexperimental premises at Baxter House.    also imported a large quantity

of canes from Madeira and from Demerara, for the purpose of studying

their structure, and making experiments with them, under varying

conditions of pressure and time. The quantity of juice which this small

apparatus was found capable of expressing exceeded 600 gallons per
hour. The juice was much more free from pithy fragments than that

which was obtained from the roller-mill, while the quantity of colouring

matter and chlorophyl extracted from the knots was much smaller, because

in the press these hard knots sank into the softer surrounding parts,

while between the rolls they got far more pressure than the softer parts

of the cane, because of their greater solidity. But the most important

result, which was fully established, was the high percentage of juice

obtained.

     In our first experiment, made immediately after the arrival of the

canes, the quantity of juice obtained exceeded 80 per cent. ; in another

experimental trial, when the canes had been four months cut, 73f per

cent, was expressed ; and, later on, in a public experiment, when the
\canes had suffered from drying, 65 per cent, was expressed.
                                                                                                                                              In

reference to the far smaller quantity of juice obtained in practice by
Ithe old system of rolling-mills,
                                           may quote from the Seventh Report

of the Parliamentary Committee on Sugar and Coffee Planting, where,
at page 259, will be found a memorandum dated " Colonial Laboratory,

Georgetown, 3rd February, 1848," from Dr. John Shier, Agricultural

Chemist, who speaking on Sugar Mills says :

IFrom numerous trials on various estates,  am satisfied that the    average yield does
                                                                    to be to obtain a
not exceed 45 per cent. ; the first of all improvements then seems

larger percentage of juice from the cane.

It is a curious fact that throughout this competition no one but

myself came forward with any plans to do away with the roller-mill.
There were plenty of improvements in this class of machine ; two

rollers and three rollers, new gearing, and combined engines and mills.

In one case a magnificent mill had been patented. It was a combined

engine and mill, weighing no less than forty tons no light matter to pass
over half-made Colonial roads and it was designed by Messrs. Robinson

and Russell, who were large sugar-mill manufacturers in London.

                                                                                                                                           N
90 HENRY BESSEMER

The extreme lightness of my cane press formed a strong, and from

a Colonial point of view, a most important, contrast to this. The press

was put to work, and publicly exhibited to dozens of persons who

were owners of sugar plantations in our various sugar-growing Colonies,

and great expectations were formed by them. They saw the canes

weighed and operated upon, then the squeezed mass again weighed, the

reduction in weight clearly showing the quantity or percentage of juice

obtained by the press, which was admittedly at least 20 per cent, more

than the average produced by the old roller-mills then universally

employed. The juice obtained was very rich in quality, in consequence

of a considerable evaporation from the canes which had gone on during

the three or four months since they were first cut. As a matter of
Icuriosity,
             manufactured from the juice obtained about half a hundred-
Iweight of crystallised sugar of very good quality, which presume was

the first sugar ever produced direct from the sugar-cane in London,

and was much prized as a matter of interest by some of my friends

for that reason.

Without going into the minutiae of detail, it may be interesting

to give a short description of the cane press, which is here illustrated

by engravings copied from drawings of the press, as erected at my

experimental works, Baxter House.
VIII,The first engraving, Fig. 18, on Plate
                                             shows a side eleva-

tion of the press, and the steam-engine with which it was combined, on

one large bed-plate. The second engraving, Fig. 19, on page 91, shows

a vertical section through one of the gun-metal perforated pressing

tubes ; the interior of these was of rectangular form in cross-section,

being 6 in. in height by 3J in. wide.
      In the centre of each of these tubes there was a massive plunger

fitting accurately. A square steel bar passed through the two plungers,

and also through slots made in the sides of the tubes for that purpose,

the outer ends of these bars being rounded and fitted into the ends

of two massive connecting-rods, which were actuated by a pair of short-

throw cranks formed one on each side of the central crank of the

steam-engine. This arrangement is best seen in Fig. 20, page 91, which

is a plan of the cane press and engine.
PLATE VIII.

                  w
                 PQ
              X
                -C5
SUGAR MANUFACTURE  91
92 HENRY BESSEMER

From the upper surface of each of the pressing-tubes, two tall

circular hoppers stood vertically, and were attached at their upper ends

to a stage or floor on which the canes were delivered, and where two

attendants were stationed, whose business it was to continually drop canes

into these tubular hoppers. When the several parts of the apparatus

were in the position shown in Fig. 19, page 91, the plunger had cut
a 6 -in. length off the lower ends of the canes in the left-hand hopper,

and had pushed them against the compressed mass of canes occupying

that end of the pressing tube, the result being that this mass was

moved a little way further along, the fluid parts escaping from the

numerous perforations in the tube.

While this had been going on the canes in the right-hand hopper

had fallen down into the pressing tube, and the return stroke of the

plunger would then cut off a 6-in. length from these canes, and force them

up against the mass of canes occupying the right-hand end of the press

tube, moving the mass of flattened canes a small distance forward, and

discharging a portion of them from the open end of the tube. In this

way every rotation of the crank cut off portions of the canes in each

of the hoppers, and carried them forward, thus keeping the tubes always

filled with a mass of compressed canes, which were jammed so tightly in

the tubes as to offer an immense resistance to the plunger, governed by

the length of the tube. The two cranks which actuated the plungers were

at right angles to the crank operated on by the steam power ; hence,

when the engine was exerting its greatest power, the cranks actuating

the plungers were passing their dead points and thus exerted an enormous

force on the mass of canes, which moved forward but a very small

distance at each stroke.

With the engine running at only 60 strokes per minute, each plunger

cut off two 6-in. lengths from each cane in the hoppers; and as there

were four hoppers with two canes in each, 4 ft. of cane were operated

upon at each revolution, or at 60 strokes per minute only, some 240 ft.
Itof cane were cut and pressed per minute.
                                            was found that the canes

thus passing along the tubes were forced out of the open ends of the

latter adhering together, and looking like a polished square bar of wood ;
the juice of the cane passing through the numerous perforations and
                                             SUGAR MANUFACTURE                                          93

falling into the square cistern formed beneath them by the massive bed-

plate, was conveyed away by a pipe to the evaporating pans.

The committee appointed to judge of the various plans submitted

in competition for the gold medal offered by his Royal Highness, Prince

Albert, came in force to Baxter House, and witnessed the cane press

Iin operation.  Although the committee did not openly express their
                 could not doubt that their convictions were entirely in
views to me,
Imy favour, a natural result of the incontrovertible facts had placed before
Ithem. In due course received a notice that the prize so much coveted was

about to be awarded to me, an entire outsider, wholly unknown to any
of the sugar-mill manufacturers of this country.

    IHow often it has occurred to me, and how often have expressed

the opinion that, in this particular competition as in many other previous
Icases
          had an immense advantage over many others dealing with the
Iproblem under consideration, inasmuch as had no fixed ideas derived

from long-established practice to control and bias my mind, and did not

                                             I

                                                                         if is,

                                                                                      is
suffer from the too-general belief that whatever                                          right. HenceaI

could, without check or restraint, look the question steadily in the face,
weigh without prejudice, or preconceived notions, all the pros and cons, and

strike out fearlessly in an absolutely new direction thought desirable.
Indeed, the first bundle of canes ever saw had not arrived from Madeira

week before had settled in my own mind certain fundamental principles,
I
    it I

                                          ;
which believed must govern all attempts to get practically the whole

juice from the cane but of course, there were many circumstances that

rendered  necessary to modify first principles, having reference to the

cost of the machine, its easy transit across country, freedom from repairs in

isolated situations, etc., etc.

In due course                                had to attend    meeting at the Society of Arts,
I                                            a
                                                a
              I
                                                           a
where was much surprised to find the large hall crowded with spectators.

At one side of the room was raised dais, on which his Royal Highness,

Prince Albert, was seated at small table, and at his side was the

Chairman of the Committee of Mechanical Experts, who had reporteda

to the Prince the result of their deliberations. In front of the platform

occupied by the Prince Consort there was long avenue covered with
crimson cloth, and skirted on each side by rows of seats, occupied by
94 HENRY BESSEMER

ladies, who added to their personal charms all that the milliner's art could
IItaccomplish to give grace and eclat to the occasion.
                                              was,      found,

my role to brave all the dangers of this double battery of youth and beauty ;
Iand, like the good St. Anthony, had to keep my eyes fixed upon the
I Ifcrimson cloth, for did not dare to look.
                                              anything could add to

the satisfaction of the moment, it was the presence on this occasion

of the Chairman of the Committee of Experts, who was about to read

his Report, for this gentleman was no other than that talented and
well-known engineer, Mr. John Scott Russell, than whom no one in

all Great Britain was more able to do justice to the subject reported
on. His firm of Robinson and Russell were extensive manufacturers

of Colonial Sugar Machinery, but they had refrained from competing
on this occasion, thus allowing Mr. Scott Russell to add another to

the many proofs of the high code of honour so conspicuous in the

whole body of Civil Engineers in this country, by giving publicly

unqualified testimony to the merits of what was, in fact, the scheme of

a rival manufacturer. The honourable distinction received from such a

source, while it was most gratifying to myself, was more than reflected

upon the speaker.

      Among many other things, Mr. Scott Russell, in addressing the
Society and reading his report, said, " the new cane press of Mr.

Bessemer has the merit of introducing a principle at once new and of

great beauty into the process, while reducing the weight and cumbrous-
ness of the machinery ; much has been done by Mr. Bessemer towards

removing the main obstacle to improvements in the working machinery

of the Colonies in the Tropics, viz., the difficulty of transport." Mr.
Scott Russell further pointed out that : " When these facts of facility

of transport, simplicity of foundation, and other advantages come to

be considered in reference to cost, it will at once be perceived that
notwithstanding the great advantages it offers in respect of quality

and quantity of juice, certainty and uniformity of action, and freedom

from accident by wear and tear, the cane press, when placed in working
condition upon an estate, will have cost less than the most ill-constructed

mill and engine to be obtained from the cheapest and most inferior

makers."
                        SUGAR MANUFACTURE    95

At the conclusion of Mr. Scott Russell's address there was a round

of applause, and this was followed by the rising of his Royal Highness

Prince Albert, who complimented me in the kindest manner on the

Isuccess of my invention an invention which had taken such unusual

steps to prove, by bringing, as it were, the Colonies to us, and by resting

my claims to recognition on actually accomplished facts. His Royal

Highness then placed in my hands a beautiful Gold Medal. In briefly
Iexpressing my thanks,
                        said that whatever advantages might in the

future result from this invention, they would be entirely due to the

encouragement held out by his Royal Highness ; and amid the warmest
Irecognition from the assembled spectators,
Iprize had received.                         beat a retreat with the
                                    A HOLIDAY IN GERMANY

T HAD been working pretty hard up to the time of the trials of the

I-*- cane press, and felt that was entitled to a little relaxation. One

of my German friends, who had ceased to import bronze, was about to
visit his native town, and pressed me to join him in a pleasure excursion
up the Rhine ; my wife preferred taking the children and governess to

Isome quiet English town, and so set off with my friend, stopping first

at Cologne, which, with its quaint old buildings and magnificent Cathedral,
afforded us much pleasure for our first week's holiday. After this, we
went up the Rhine as far as Diisseldorf, where we arrived on the
day of St. Ursula, the patron Saint of Diisseldorf. The streets were all
alive with spectators viewing the long religious processions to be seen
issuing from the various churches ; the large white caps of the lady
processionists formed a strong contrast with their simple black dresses ;
then came numerous bands of children, carrying flowers and various

emblems, the clergy heading each procession, and carrying coloured
wax candles of several feet in height, all of which was both novel and

Iinteresting to an untravelled Englishman like myself, but which has

been so often seen by many of my readers that will not " repeat the
oft-told tale." After a short stay here we pursued our journey up the
Rhine, passing many well-known points of interest that skirt that
beautiful river, and eventually landed at Biebrich, whence we pursued

Iour journey to Frankfort, with which town was very much pleased.
I have still a distinct remembrance of my visit while there to Beth-

mann's Museum, to see the celebrated statue of Ariadne gracefully seated
on a tiger, the room in which it is shown being provided with crimson
curtains, through which a rich glow of light falls on to the cold white

marble, producing a unique and charming effect.
        A POLICE COURT ADVENTURE                    97

From Frankfort we journeyed on to Ntiremburg, where we took

up our abode at Bayrischer Hof. We determined to see all we could,

in a week, of this charming, quaint old town. A few days later, my

friend told me he wished to go over to Ftirth, some miles distant.

This little town is the principal seat of the German bronze manufacture,

and my friend, having some connection there, we went together to

Ftirth, where he called on a manufacturer with whom he had done business

in former years. We spent a very pleasant day with this gentleman's

family ; the weather was delightful, and we were able to sit under the

trees in the open square until a late hour in the evening, enjoying not

a few glasses of their light beer, and returning at night to Nliremburg,

to renew our search for amusement among its quaint old streets and

public buildings. On the second day after our visit to Fiirth, on our

arrival at the Hotel, the landlord told us there was something wrong,

and that two police - officers were waiting our return, and had papers

for our arrest. We were, of course, greatly astonished, but had no

doubt that it was some huge mistake ; however, it was not so, and we

found that the order was to arrest an Englishman of the name of

Bessemer. After a little discussion, the landlord very kindly suggested

that we should remain in charge of one of the officers at the Hotel,

while he and the other went to the police-office, where he became bail

for our appearance before the magistrate at eleven on the following

morning ; so fortunately we were allowed to pass a quiet night at the

Hotel.
INext day, after some little bustle and annoyance,
                                                    found myself in

court, face to face with my accuser and the magistrate, who fortunately

could speak enough of my own language to make himself perfectly well
Iunderstood. He told me that
                              was charged with what was a very

grave offence in Bavaria, viz. : attempting by bribery to induce a workman

in the employment of a bronze manufacturer at Ftirth to betray the secrets

of his employer, and go over to England to assist in establishing a

manufactory on the model of that of his employer. It was added that

I had offered the man 2,000 thalers (about 200). This was the main

feature of the charge which was read over to me in German, and then in

IEnglish by the magistrate, who demanded to know what had to say
                                                                                                                                           o
98 HENRY BESSEMER

in my defence.     I Ithen explained, at some length, the fact that had

many years previously discovered a system of making bronze powder by

Imachinery, and that, with three attendants, could manufacture daily as

much bronze powder as eighty men could produce by the system then in

Iuse at Furth ; that had lowered the price of the article 30 or 40 per

cent ; and that the people of Furth had, no doubt, lost a large part of

their trade, a circumstance likely to cause much irritation to the workmen
Iengaged in this manufacture.
                                                said that the idea of my wishing to

establish the old mode of manufacture in England, and to learn any

secrets connected with
                   I                was simply ridiculous.  further stated that
                               it,                          I
                                                                     I

                                                                                            a

                                                                                I
had come there purely for pleasure and recreation; and the landlord of

the Hotel where was staying would be able to tell them that, in the

absence of my German friend,        I  was wholly unable to ask for single

Ifarticle of food in the German language. " you, sir," said " will

ask my accuser what    I            offered him, and what was said on both sides

before finally settling to give him 2,000 thalers for his services, you will

readily convince yourself of the absolute falsehood of the charge, which

could only have been made in pure spite or envy." A long talk in

German between the magistrate and my accuser ended in the magistrate

saying that      was dismissed, and found not guilty of the charge laid
against me      " but," added the magistrate, " you must leave by post-
           I ;I
                  I                 expressed my astonishment of this treatment,
wagon this afternoon."  I

telling him that wished to stay in Niiremburg for several more

days, and intimated that            should at once ask the protection of
                                    I

                                            is
our Minister at Munich. "It                     for your own protection that wish
                                                            a

                                                                      if

                                                                          I
                                                                            I
you to go," said the magistrate ''if you stay here you will be stoned."
                                    ;

" Surely," said      " after such an abominable charge has been brought
           I

                 I,
against me, cannot sheer off in so cowardly manner, and must look

to you for protection during my stay here." "Well,          you wish, you

can have the protection of two officers wherever you go."   thanked

him, and accepted the escort he had offered. This was rather good

fun at first, but  it  soon began to be very irksome. We were stared

at by all the visitors at the hotel. We had to pay for the admission

of these men at all the places of amusement we visited, etc. so we
                                                            ;

hurried our explorations of this very interesting old town, and on the
               HOME AGAIN                               99

third morning after my arrest we commenced our return journey. Our

guards appear to have had strict orders ; they went on the coach with

us all the way until we passed the frontier, and found ourselves in

Prussia, and not until then did we get rid of their really unnecessary
I Iservices.
have never found out the facts, but have always strongly

suspected that this charge was got up against me to pay off the little

trick on the German spy who wanted to get at the secrets of my

manufacture by his pretended invention of a machine for making hooks
Iand eyes. However, " All's well that ends well ;" and
                                                        was glad to

return home from a very enjoyable holiday, invigorated in health,

and quite ready to set to work again on whatever might come first

on the tapis.
CHAPTER VIII

IMPROVEMENTS IN GLASS MANUFACTURE

ITT) ETURNED once more to dear old Baxter House,  came face to
J-l; face with the debris of former mechanical investigations piled up

here and there in some of the outbuildings, where quantities of old glass

pots, and the ruins of a pair of large furnaces, lay scattered among heaps

of wheels and pulleys on long shafts, and fragments of old iron framing.

Each single piece of this wild mass brought back to memory the

particular part it had played in one of those fierce contests with the

mechanical powers, in which it may have come off victoriously, or,

through want of foresight of the guiding mind, have been ignominiously

beaten, to remain a mute witness to the shortcomings of so many plausible

Itheories. Few men have made more mistakes than have ; perhaps

there are few men who have so boldly grappled with absolutely novel

problems about which no published data existed to guide and modify

the first ideas whence all elaborate mechanical structures naturally

spring, just as a plant does from its seed. There were many remains in

this old storehouse which reminded me of investigations, interesting

I Ienough in themselves, but which must leave wholly unmentioned if

am ever to arrive in this imperfect history at that part of my life's

most energetic labours in which my colleagues of the Iron and Steel

IInstitute are more immediately interested. So must hasten on, and,
Iin mercy to them, leave unsaid so much that should have to tell if

the limits of my little history, and the kind patience of my readers,
permitted me to inflict it on them. The ventilation of mines by my

combined steam fan, the centrifugal pumps which formed so interesting

an exhibit in the International Exhibition of 1851 ; the compression of

pure bituminous coal rendered plastic by superheated steam, and pressed

into rectangular polished blocks by a continuous feeding and continuous
                            OPTICAL GLASS                                101

discharge from a machine similar to the cane press : these and several

other minor inventions must be passed over.
IBut there is one subject of deep interest that
                                                 desire to save

from absolute oblivion, since its record may at some future time set

some active and ingenious mind to work on the lines briefly indicated,

and thus add another triumph to the many lately achieved in the

domain of optical science.
I IFor some years previous to the period of which
                                                 am writing,
was deeply interested in the question of " burning glasses," such as those

of Buifon, Parker, and others ; my aim being to construct an instrument

of sufficient power to act on several ounces, instead of several grains, of

the material, which was to be operated upon in crucibles, into which

the focus of the lens was directed. In following up this idea, my

attention was naturally turned to the enormous difficulty of producing

perfectly homogeneous discs of optical glass of large diameters. Fraun-
hofer's magnificent lenses of small size had for many years attracted

universal admiration, and learned societies were intent on further

investigation of the subject. Thus it was that Faraday commenced

an enquiry which only ended in failure.

Fraunhofer's system of manufacture was at that time a profound

secret, and the small discs of glass which he sold at fabulous prices

were the envy of all other optical glass makers. Faraday, whose

scientific knowledge and attainments pointed him out as the most likely

Iscientist to succeed in this new field of enquiry, was, doubt not, led

absolutely astray by the appearance of Fraunhofer's small discs ; had
Faraday never seen one of them, and been left to his own resources,

he would most probably have succeeded.
       The small discs produced by Fraunhofer, four or five inches in

diameter and from half to three-quarters of an inch in thickness, showed

what really appeared to be incontrovertible evidence that they were

made in small open flat dishes, of the form shown in Fig. 21, page 102.

      These little cakes of glass, a, had a flat shining upper surface,
evidently the natural, or fire, polish, as it is called, and were rounded at

the top edges as shown at 6, the periphery of the flat cake and its

lower surface having the unmistakeable impress of the shallow fireclay
102  HENRY BESSEMER

dish shown in section at c. These apparently irresistible proofs that the

glass was made in small quantities, and was very fusible and very fluid,

no doubt deceived Faraday, and so misdirected his experiments as to

lead to failure ; all of which became self-evident when the mode of

producing these little cakes was known. Glass made in large pots and

at the highest attainable temperature is only semi-fluid, and is found to

be of different densities in the upper and lower portions of the mass,
Aowing to the varying specific gravities of its constituents.
                                                               partial

admixture slowly going on in consequence of unequal expansion by heat

in so bad a conductor as glass, and the motion induced by air bubbles

slowly rising to the surface, have the effect of introducing veins, or striae,

consisting of streaks of more or less dense portions carried upwards by

the rising air bubbles, running throughout the general mass, and entirely

spoiling it for optical purposes. Now Fraunhofer, knowing no means

                           FIG. 21. SECTION OP FIRECLAY SAUCER AND GLASS Disc

of preventing the formation of these veins or striae, proceeded on this
simple but laborious mode of counteracting these defects. He made a
large potful of glass as perfect as he could by simple fusion ; he allowed
it to get cold in the pot ; he then sawed the mass horizontally into
slices, polished their surfaces, and thus examined their internal structure ;
and wherever there was a line or streak of more or less dense glass, the
defective part was applied to a glass-grinder's wheel and cut away, not
as a deep narrow notch but by a wide shallow indent ; the surface was
again polished for re-examination, and this process was repeated until
no more veins, or striae, were visible. The mutilated and indented disc
of glass, sometimes cut nearly half-way through, was then put into one
of the shallow fireclay dishes already described, gently heated at first,
and finally made sufficiently soft to sink down and acquire the form and
dimensions of the dish, the impress of whose surface it bore, while its
upper surface assumed the polished appearance of ordinary molten glass.
                             EXPERIMENTS WITH VISCID FLUIDS                               103

IWhat desired to achieve was the production, at a small cost, of

large and massive discs or lenses, which could not be produced by Fraun-
I Ihofer's system. Among the several plans
                                            proposed,                                     will describe

only two, each of which attacked the problem from an entirely different

I Istandpoint. First, may mention that made a series of laboratory

experiments with viscid transparent fluids, contained in glass vessels of

various forms and under varied conditions. Venice turpentine was first

tried, but very viscid castor oil was the nearest to glass in its indications

of movement within itself. Small grains of broken red sealing-wax, by

their greater specific gravity, showed well the tendency of the oxide of

lead (used in flint glass) to subside ; and how, by rotating this vessel with
one small fragment of sealing-wax, its movement was restrained within

a circle the diameter of which was equal to the subsidence of the particle

during a semi-rotation of the vessel containing the oil. The effect of

the gentle rotation or rolling of the vessel was also experimented on in
Avarious ways.
                small portion of the viscid oil was poured out, and

a very minute quantity of blue powder ground up in
a                                                                                         just enough to

           ;

            a

                                                                                     it,
give faint blue colour. This blue oil was then poured back again into

the nearly globular-shaped glass vessel, which must be considered as the

glass pot   little movement of the vessel produced streaks of blue colour

like veins in marble, dispersed throughout the general mass of viscid fluid.

But by continuing to roll the glass globe slowly for about two or three

hours, not the slightest trace of veins or streaks of blue remained visible,

while a very slight tint of blue pervaded the whole mass of oil, which was
Itnow perfectly homogeneous.
                              will be observed that the motion so given

to the whole mass did not divide            as the insertion of stirrer would
                              a is                aI
have done.  also demonstrated the fact that stirring from the surfaceit,; it a
a

       it

       I
by rod was wholly impossible without the introduction of air in large

quantities. So extraordinary      this fact that             cannot refrain from

putting     on record. Take   glass jar or vessel, say ten inches deep

and two inches in diameter, open at the top and closed at the bottom, asa
shown in Figs. 22 and 23, on page 104. Nearly fill with clear, but
viscid, castor oil, carefully removing all traces of air from the fluid by

exhaustion under the glass bell of common air-pump place the jar

on table, take polished metal, or, preferably, glass, rod about the
a
                          a
104                      HENRY BESSEMER

size of a blaoklead pencil, and having a smooth, rounded end, wipe                                                                                                        it,  and

very slowly and steadily lower     some six inches into the oil, as shown
                         it,
in Fig. 22 then as slowly and carefully withdraw
     ;;                        it      it                    occupying quite a
                                                      a it,
minute in doing so. There will remain no trace that anything has

entered the oil. Now place the jar again under the bell of the air-pump,

take a few strokes with  and there will appear line of ill- defined

mist, standing vertically upwards about six inches in height in the centre

of the jar at each stroke of the pump    becomes more visible, and

Itenlarges in diameter.  soon assumes the appearance of innumerable
little globes, like the hard roe of herring, as shown at Fig. 23. A little
                                a

                         FIG. 22   FIG. 23

     EXPERIMENT  SHOWING Am CARRIED INTO A VISCID FLUID BY A STIRRER

more exhaustion, and these still further expand and rush upwards by the

thousand, until at last all the air adhering to, and taken down by, the

glass rod has been removed. What you may do, and what you may not
do, with molten glass was thus beautifully illustrated by some of these
preliminary experiments with viscid fluids. You may move the glass
about you may rotate these viscid fluids in a closed vessel and you
may even pour them, provided the last part of your stream does not fall

on the poured-out mass.
       To return to actual glass, the subject divides itself into two main

systems of procedure, viz., you may make glass by the fusion of pure
silica, lime, and potash, or other alkali, with or without the addition of a
considerable quantity of oxide of lead, which used where great density
     ;

                                                                         is
                                                                                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                            PLATE IX.

FIG. 24. BESSEMER'S FURNACE FOR "THE MANUFACTURE OF OPTICAL GLASS
     FURNACE FOR MAKING OPTICAL GLASS                                                                                                             105

and refractive power are required. Then it becomes more desirable

that an intimate mixture of the materials should take place, and through-
out the twelve to twenty hours required for fusion, no subsidence of the
heavy portions of the mixture, or flotation of the lighter ones, should

be suffered to take place, or a homogeneous mass will not be obtained.

It is manifestly easy to remove the heavy, sweet particles from the lower

part of a cup of tea by one or two gentle movements of a spoon, and
so get the whole cup of fluid equally sweet, but we have been warned

by our oil experiment that the fluid glass must not be stirred by a

rod or we introduce air ; and if we wait long enough for the air slowly

to find its way again to the surface, we inevitably have an interval
in which the difference in specific gravity of the several materials will

assert itself, and we get subsidence, lose the homogeneity of the mass,
and all our stirring will have been in vain. The outcome of these

and other observed conditions was the proposal to employ oscillating,

semi-rotating, or continuous slow-rotating melting crucibles, the latter

being preferred. The crucibles and the proper kind of furnace for this

purpose may be largely varied ; one of the simple forms is given in

Fig. 24, Plate IX. ; its leading features are representative of all the others.

      The furnace there shown consists of a cylindrical casing of iron, A, lined

with firebrick, B ; it is divided into two chambers, the lower one, c, being
provided with firebars on which the fuel rests ; while the upper chamber,

JD, is cylindrical in form with a curved roof, having an opening at formed

in a circular piece of moulded firebrick j*, which is removed when
putting in the rotating crucible H. Above the opening, j, is a suspended

hood, E, which communicates with a tall chimney ; the lower part of

the chamber, D, is conical in form, having a small central opening, F,

                                                      each of which
     is
            a

                                                                              ;

                                                                             P, c,
                                                                                          is

                                                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                         it,
                                                                                                              is
and four larger cylindrical openings, G, surrounding

communicates with the fire chamber, and allows the flame to ascend

and play up and around the crucible, H. This crucible                                                                                             conical in

form both above and below its largest diameter, and terminates in a

raised neck or mouth at H* the furnace, A,            suspended on axes,

occupying the position indicated by the letter M these axes are

fitted to strong iron ring or hoop, N, which surrounds the furnace,

and  itself supported on the axes,  which rest on iron frames, o.
106  HENRY BESSEMER

The axes, p, are placed at right angles to the axes, M, so as to allow the
crucible to roll or gyrate on its axis, its upper and lower ends moving in

a circular path. It will be observed that the crucible, H, rests on one

of its sides on the conical floor of the chamber, D, and is kept in position
by its lower spherical end, M, moving in the cylindrical opening, E. Now

if the furnace be moved quietly on its axis, the crucible gravitating to

the lowest inclined side of the conical surface on which it rests, will
roll round on its own axis so long as the furnace is kept in motion.
This motion of the furnace may be easily effected by means of a short-
throw half-crank on a vertical axis passing upward through the floor
in a line through the centre of the furnace, the crank-pin having a
spherical end fitting into the cylindrical socket projecting downwards
from the underside of the ashpit. The motion of the furnace should
be very slow, so as to give about one revolution of the crucible in five
or ten minutes, and thus allow a constant movement of the whole of
the material to take place without dividing or breaking the continuity
of the mass, preventing any subsidence of the heavier particles, and
securing the perfect homogeneity of the whole. When the fusion and
mixing is judged to be complete, the crucible can be pushed with a rod

into an upright position, and, by drawing the fire, cooled as rapidly as
possible by the current of air flowing through the furnace.

       Homogenous optical glass, free from those long " wreaths " or
lines of varying density, so common in ordinary glass, was also proposed to

be made in the following manner. A large potful of glass of the required

composition must be allowed to get cold, and then broken up, the central
portions only being selected for use. These pieces are to be crushed,

all the glass being reduced to absolute powder, and separated by sifting ;
all pieces exceeding the size of a grain of rice should be rejected. The
very small and nearly equally-sized fragments that remain are then to

be carefully washed in distilled water and put into a lenticular-shaped
crucible, the exterior surface of which should be glazed, so as to render
it impervious and air-tight. The crucible having been put into a suitable
furnace and gradually heated, a small platinum pipe communicating with
the upper part of the crucible is also connected with an exhaust pump,
so as to remove every particle of air from the crucible and from between
                        MIXING MATERIALS FOB GLASS MAKING               107

the granules of glass while these still retain their granular condition.

As soon as the glass becomes fluid, it forms a homogenous mass, the

law of diffusion equalising any minute differences in composition of

continuous grains, while wholly avoiding those long "wreaths" or streaks

so fatal in large masses of glass. On the strength of these crude notions a

number of various-shaped clay crucibles were ordered to be made, with

a view to carry on an elaborate series of experiments on the lines indicated ;
Ibut as these crucibles required at least three months to dry,
                                                                        had

ample time to pursue some other interesting investigations relative to

the production of glass for ordinary commercial purposes.

    IIn going over a glass-works some years previously, had noticed

what I, at the moment, thought was a great oversight in the mode of

proceeding. The materials employed, viz., sand, lime, and soda in

ascertained quantities, were laid in heaps upon the paved floor of the

glasshouse, and a labourer proceeded to shovel them into one large

heap, turning over the powdered materials, and mixing them together ;

a certain quantity of oxide of manganese was added during the general

mixing operation, for the purpose of neutralising the green colour given

to glass by the small amount of oxide of iron contained in the sand.

The materials were then thrown into the large glass pots, which were

already red-hot inside the furnace. What appeared to me to be wanting

in this rough-and-ready operation was a far more intimate blending of

these dry materials. A grain of sand lying by itself is infusible at

the highest temperature attainable in a glass pot, and the same may

be said of a small lump of lime ; but both are soluble in alkali, if it

be within their reach. These dry powders do not make excursions in

a glass pot and look about for each other, and if they lie separated the

Itime required for the whole to pass into a state of solution will greatly
depend on their mutual contact. In such matters             always reason by

analogy, and look for confirmation of my views to other manufactures
Ior processes with which
                                may happen to have become more or
I Iless acquainted.
                        may here remark that  have always adopted a
different reading of the old proverb " A little knowledge is a dangerous
       "
thing        this  may  indeed  be true, if your knowledge  is equally  small
          ;
Ion all subjects ; but have found a little knowledge on a great many
108 HENRY BESSEMER

Idifferent things of infinite service to me. From my early youth had

a strong desire to know something of any and all the varied manufac-

I Itures to which have been able to gain access, and have always felt

a sort of annoyance whenever any subject connected with manufacture
Iwas mooted of which
                            knew absolutely nothing. The result of this

Ifeeling, acting for a great many years on a powerful memory, has been

that have really come to know this dangerous little of a very great
                            I have been led into this long digression
many industrial processes.
Ibecause meant to illustrate my observations on the extreme slowness

of the fusion of glass by an analogy in the manufacture of gunpowder.

I have shown how impossible it is for the dry powdered materials employed

in the formation of glass to chemically react upon each other when

they are lying far apart. Now, if we take the three substances charcoal,

nitre, and sulphur, of which gunpowder is composed, and break them

into small fragments, then shake them loosely together, and put a

pound or two of this mixture on a stone floor and apply a match, the

nitre will fizzle a little briskly ; the sulphur will burn fitfully or go out,
and the charcoal will last several minutes before it is consumed. If, instead

of this crude and imperfect mixture, we take the trouble to grind these

matters under edge-stones into a fine paste with water, and then dry

and granulate  it,   we have still the precise chemical elements to deal with
                    a
as we set fire to on the stone floor but they now exist in such close
                            ;

                                   I
                                                                                 a
and intimate contact as to instantly act upon each other, and ton or

two of these otherwise slow-burning materials will be converted into gas

in a fraction of second. The inference  drew from this analogy

was simple enough, viz. grind together the materials required to form
                       :

glass, and when the heat of the furnace arrives at the point at which

decomposition takes place, the whole will pass into the state of fluid

glass much more quickly, and will yield more truly homogenous glass
                                    a
than obtained in the usual manner.
I                                                 it a
    iswas at this time engaged in constructing   large reverberatory
                                                 I
furnace for the fusion of glass on the open hearth, and may forestall

what have to say respecting this mode of founding glass, by stating
I

that when employed a mixture of raw material merely shovelled into
        I

the bath as practised in ordinary glass-making,  took from ten to
             OPEN HEARTH GLASS FURNACE                                                        109

twelve hours to fuse half a ton of sand and lime in my new furnace ;

Ibut when took precisely the same quantity and quality of materials

which had been reduced to a uniform powder, as fine as flour, by grind-

ing the mixed materials under edge stones, my glass, instead of requiring

ten or twelve hours for fusion, became beautifully fluid in four and
Ia-half to five hours. When first tried this fine ground material in my
Ifurnace,
           patiently watched the whole process hour after hour ; the

inert mass of dry white powder lay quietly under the rushing current

of flame passing over without showing any symptom of fusion. At last
             ;
I  sought relief for my over-fatigued eyes by half an hour's turn up and
                       a
                        it,
down the yard and on my return into the glass-house, was astonished
                                                    ;

                                                      I
to hear a curious sound issuing from the furnace, closely resembling the

noise given out by frying-pan when cooking fish on the application

of my eye to the peep-hole of the furnace, saw that the level of the
                                             aI
glass had risen an inch or two, and that rapid boiling was going on,

caused by the disengagement of gas resulting from the rapid reaction

of soda on the silicic acid.  scarcely need say how greatly was pleased
                              I                  a

                                          a               I
at witnessing in a first experiment so important result, and so distinct
                                             little of this so-called " dangerous
an example of the value of

knowledge."

      Up to this period the fusion of glass in large crucibles was universal,
and the reverberatory furnace which had erected at Baxter House
          is

                                      I

                                                                                           a
for this purpose was the first in which glass was made on an open

hearth, and the parent of all those bottle furnaces in which the fusion
             carried on in open tanks. It was here also that the hollow
of glass

box roof was first used in reverberatory furnaces                                             form of roof after-

wards employed by me so economically in the reverberatory melting

furnaces used in the early days of the Bessemer steel manufacture. The

immense economy, in time, consumption of fuel, and cost of large melting-

pots, resulting from the fusion of glass on the open hearth of a

reverberatory furnace was accompanied by one great disadvantage, viz.,

the tendency of molten matter to fall from the roof of the furnace into the
Itbath, and thus spoil the glass.
                                             was found that whenever the underside

of the furnace roof was exposed to an excessively high temperature, the

alkaline vapours from the bath beneath caused fusion of the brickwork,
                                                 a
110                       HENRY BESSEMER.

                                                ^^ ,

and tears, with their long tails, would fall slowly from above and discolour
                                It was mainly to counteract this
the glass in the bath beneath.
Iinjurious action that invented the thin box roof which entirely cured

this defect, while the durability of the furnace arch was at least four

Ito one as compared to the ordinary solid form. How well still

remember the trouble and anxiety these tears from the roof caused me,

Iand how watched through the eye-holes of the furnace the effects

of the alkaline vapours on the hollow box roof when it was first under
Itrial.
         looked ceaselessly into the fierce glare of the furnace, with

but a piece of thick glass between my eye and the bright molten

mass, only eighteen or twenty inches distant. When watching by the

hour at a time to see if a single tear was formed on the roof, the eye

accommodated itself to the intense light, and all within that glorious

Imass of incandescent matter could be seen in its minutest details.

remember one peculiar circumstance that stood out from all the rest ;
while one of the hollow firebricks of the roof was in a condition of

plastic clay, the brickmaker had taken hold of
                                          II I Iand hollow caused
                                                    it,
by his thumb was beautifully delineated on the underside of this par-Ia
                                                                         a
ticular brick;  it      happened to be opposite the eye-hole, and was anI it
                                                                                               a
excellent mark whereby any change in the state of the roof could, fromis

time to time, be observed. This must have been as far back as 1847, but

that thumb-mark           as indelibly impressed on my memory as was on

the plastic clay. How many hours in succession have watched that mark

through the fierce heat and blinding light of the incandescent furnace

I  cannot now take upon myself to say, but my whole heart and mind

were so absorbed in the investigation that      never gave  thought to

the fearful riskI       ran of destroying my sight. Now, when  recall

these facts vividly to memory, can realise the folly was guilty of,
                          I

and can, in all humility, thank Heaven that am not at this moment

blind old man.is

     It now just forty-nine years since succeeded in fusing the

materials used in the manufacture of glass on the open hearth of a
reverberatory furnace, in about one-third the time and with one-third the

fuel required for its fusion in the large and expensive glass pots then

in use. But there was still one great desideratum the glass fused in
                                                :
                                                                                           PLATE X.

FIG. 25. BESSEMER'S FURNACE FOR THE PRODUCTION OF SHEET GLASS
             FIG. 26. BESSEMER'S METHOD OF ROLLING SHEET GLASS
                    CONTINUOUS SHEET GLASS FURNACE        111

pots was usually blown into long round-ended cylinders or muffs, the

ends of which had to be opened while the glass was still hot and plastic

an operation requiring great skill and dexterity on the part of the glass-

blower. These open-ended cylinders, when cold, were slit from end to end

by a diamond, and again heated until sufficiently soft to be spread out

flat on the smooth stone bed of a furnace specially constructed for that

purpose ; after which they had to be ground and polished, if made into

what is known as patent plate.

    INow, what proposed to do, instead of this slow, laborious, and

expensive series of operations, was simply to allow the semi-fluid molten

glass to escape by an opening extending along the whole length of the

bath, and about 1^ in. in width, and to flow gently between a pair of

cold iron rollers, so as to determine its breadth and thickness at a
Isingle operation.
                    aimed at converting the whole contents of the

furnace into one continuous sheet of glass in ten or fifteen minutes,

wholly without skilled manipulation of any kind, or the employment

of the other furnaces, which are necessary for opening and spreading

the blown cylinders before referred to. It will be obvious that the

continuous sheet as it passed from the rolls might be cut into any

desired lengths, and thus very much larger sheet glass could be made

than it was possible to obtain by blowing it into cylinders.

    I IHaving thus foreshadowed the design had in view, will briefly
Iexplain the nature of the apparatus which erected at Baxter House

to test the practicability of the scheme ; and for this purpose I give

the engravings, Figs. 25 and 26, Plate X, by way of illustration.

Fig. 25 is a cross-section taken through the centre of the bath of the

reverberatory furnace, looking towards the fire-bridge A, over which the

flame passes. This flame is deflected downward on to the molten glass B,

occupying the hearth of the furnace c, which is a sort of rectangular

tank, having all along one side a slot or opening D, against which an

iron bar E is fixed, so as to close the slot and prevent the escape of

the semi-fluid glass. The arched roof, p, of the furnace is formed of

hollow boxes of firebrick, each box having a round opening in each

of four of its sides, while the upper side is quite open and the lower

one closed, and forms the underside of the furnace roof.
112              HENRY BESSEMER

      In the front of the furnace is a cast-iron door frame D, lined with

firebrick. It extends the whole length of the tank in which the glass

is melted, and it is removed from its position when necessary, by

slings from a jib-crane attached to hooks H, which project from each

end of the frame. The flame, after passing over the glass materials

in the bath, travels downwards to an underground flue connected to a

tall chimney-shaft. There is also a narrow passage i, running downward

into the same underground flue, and extending upwards, as shown at i*,

so as to admit a current of flame, as indicated by arrows in front of

the opening D, and round the curved underlip c* of the cistern c, in

order to keep all the front part of the cistern in a highly-heated state.

      In front of the furnace a rolling machine is fitted to a suitable slide,

so that it may be removed from the furnace a short distance, as shown

in Fig. 25, which is a side elevation of the apparatus. It consists of a

pair of smooth cast-iron hollow rollers M and N, into which a current

of cold water is allowed to flow through the pipes P and Q, and from

which the water escapes by similar pipes at the other end of the

rollers. A telescopic pipe R slides in and out of a fixed pipe s, and

thus keeps up an uninterrupted communication with the water supply.

The rollers are brought nearer together, or further apart, by means of

screws T in the usual manner, and thus regulate the thickness of the

sheet of glass.

     Fig. 26 represents in section the furnace, from which the large

fire-door has been removed ; the rolling machine has also been moved

along its slide, until its lower roller N is in almost close contact with

the lip c* of the melting cistern ; this movement is effected by turning

the handle u, which actuates the wheel v, and the rack w, and moves

the whole rolling apparatus into position. When this has been done,

the rollers are thrown into gear with a shaft, not shown in the drawings,

and are caused to revolve at the desired speed.  As soon as the

machine has been thrown into gear the iron bar E is withdrawn, when

a slowly-moving, white-hot, semi-fluid mass creeps out of the long slot,

and coming into contact with the lower revolving roll N, is moved by

it into the space between the rolls, and is compressed into a thin con-

tinuous sheet from an eighth to a quarter of an inch in thickness, as
                    CONTINUOUS SHEET GLASS FURNACE                                                                         113

desired ; a projecting V-shaped rib on the upper roller M, will cut
the glass into lengths equal to its circumference. The sheet of

glass thus severed from the general mass will rapidly slide down

the smooth curved surface x of the machine, and deposit itself on the

flat stone bed at the foot of the incline, from which it may be transferred
Itinto a suitable annealing oven.
                                   will be understood that, as soon as

the bath is empty, the rolling machine will be run back on its slide

to the position shown in Fig. 25. The bar E and the door G will

then be replaced, the bath charged with a fresh supply of raw material,

and the process be repeated as soon as the glass is in the proper

condition.

       From this general description of the process, and the simple
mechanism employed, it will be seen that a large quantity of glass

could be produced with a very small plant. Thus, suppose that the

glass materials are melted in five hours and that the time of casting

is,

  II
                   4
                                                                 1

                          I if
                              I

                                                                                  4
                                                                                                     3

                                                    I
say, fifteen minutes, a cast would easily be made every six hours,
Aor four times per day.
                         bath only ft. by ft. in area, and 12 in.

deep, when making strong horticultural glass ^th in. thick, would yield

theoretically 5,760 ft. per day (say 5,000), equal to, at least, 400 blown

cylinders ft. long by ft. in diameter.

was quietly pursuing my experiments with the apparatus described,

when was unexpectedly called upon by an eminent glass-manufacturer.

He said that he had heard that was doing something novel in the

production of sheet glass, and  my patent was secured, he should much

like to know what was the nature of the invention.                                                      told him my

patent was secure, and that should be happy to give him a general

outline of the scheme. He was greatly interested, and the shadows of

the evening had imperceptibly fallen upon us in my little private room

before my visitor rose to depart. He was very desirous to see the
experimental apparatus and knowing that my guest, Mr. Lucas Chance,
if

                I
                                                                  ;

                                            I

                                                                                                                        a
was at the head of the largest glass-works in the kingdom, and worthy

of all confidence,  acquiesced in his strongly-expressed desire, and said

he would call again the next day at noon,  would have                                                                      charge

of glass ready to roll into sheet in his presence.
      The following morning, all was got in readiness for a cast. Mr. Chance
114                         HENRY BESSEMER

critically examined the rolling apparatus, and looked into the furnace from

time to time, just as a man would who thoroughly knew what he was

Iabout ; and when said we had better now get to work, there were

myself, Mr. W. D. Allen, my eldest son Henry, a carpenter, and my

engine-driver present in the small room in which the furnace and machine

had been erected. As soon as the bar retaining the charge was removed,

and the tenacious semi-fluid glass touched the lower roll, the thick round

edge of the slowly-moving mass became engaged in the narrow space, where

the second roll took hold of and the bright continuous sheet descended
                            it,
                                    it                           had intentionally
                                                              a

                                                   I
the inclined surface, darkening as cooled slightly.

omitted the cutter in the roll so as to make continuous sheet this
                                                                 a

                                                                               ;
had to be pulled away, for my little room was not half long enough to

accommodate it. The heat suddenly thrown off from so large white-hot

surface threatened our garments  we stood too near, and unfortunately
                                 if

                                              a
some oily cotton waste took fire, causing momentary panic. Mr. Chance

called out, "Cease the operation; cease the operation!" We were all

                                                                                                2j
in perspiration, and the long adhesive sheet of glass, 70 ft. long by ft.
a
wide, was gathered up before the door. The heat was very great, and
 aI
throwing the rolls out of gear, we all beat hasty retreat. However,
        itas far as the rapid formation of thin sheet-glass was concerned, there
                                 I
                         a                              a
could be no doubt whatever, and and my visitor sat down quietly to

cool ourselves, and think over what had taken place. Notwithstanding

the mistake of not putting in the cutter, and making the glass into small

sheets, had the satisfaction of knowing that had just made sheet of
                                                 I

                                                                                    a

glass more than three times the length of the longest piece that had ever
been produced, and that Mr. Chance had seen, for the first time in his

life, continuous sheet of glass flowing from a machine, wholly without any
skilled manipulation. " Well," said Mr. Chance, " you have gone good
                                 it
                                            it

                                                                                             ;

                                                         I
                                                                                       a
way, but you have much further to go yet before you touch the real

point the commercial point. Now  has struck me that we have so

many appliances, and so many skilled employes in all departments, that

perfecting such novel process must be more easy and less expensive to

us than  can be to you. After all, should                  not become so perfect as

to be a commercial success, or should some other way be found of effecting

the same result, you might have all your labour in vain but freely
                SALE OF CONTINUOUS SHEET GLASS PATENT             115

admit that you have done enough to constitute an actual value as the

invention now stands. Just think it over, and determine whether you
will sell me your invention as it stands and make at once a profit on what

you have done, or whether you will spend more labour and money with

the chance of much greater remuneration, if you succeed commercially,
Iand no one else supersedes you ?
                                   am going down to Birmingham

this evening by the 9 P.M. train. Dine with me at seven o'clock at the

Euston Hotel, and tell me, yes or no, whether you are disposed to sell

your invention in its present state." With this he took his leave, and

I had still three hours to reflect over a most unlooked-for proposition.
IIt was very exciting, and talked the matter over with Mrs. Bessemer,

and the general consensus of opinion was : " Realise, by all means, if you

can get an adequate amount, but don't give it away." This decision, however,
was a long way off a positive fixed sum, to which a " yes" or " no" was to be

uttered by both sides. Time slipped on, and when the clock struck seven

I found myself in a snug private room at the Euston Hotel. We had
a nice little dinner, and, when the table was cleared, my host said : " Well,
I Ihave you decided ?"
                 said that        had thought the matter over, and
Ifelt that any sum must now be a sacrifice, but that was prepared to sell
Ion one condition, viz., there was to be no discussion of price.
                                                                  would
Iname what had fixed on ; would he give me a simple yes or no ? To this
I Ihe agreed, and then said, " The sum
                                        have fixed on is six thousand
Ipounds." " Well," said Mr. Chance, " will give you that sum for
Iyour patent ;
                shall not go down to Birmingham to-night, and to-

morrow at 11 A.M., if you will call at Messrs. Hooper and Co.'s, my

solicitors, in Sackville Street, we can settle the whole matter there

and then." We met as arranged, a short agreement was drawn up,

Mr. Chance handed me a cheque for 1,000 with a short-dated bill for

5,000, and we parted very good friends, mutually pleased with our

I Ibargain. As a fitting tribute to the memory of Mr. Chance's able solicitor,
Mr. Hooper,     may mention that  found him so shrewd and careful
Iof his client, and so just withal, that from that day gave his firm all my

legal business as far as patents were concerned.
IAt this period
                 was deeply interested, from a scientific         point
Iof view, in the plate-glass manufacture.                         be, a
                                           was, and ever shall
116                             HENRY BESSEMER

Igreat admirer of plate glass, which  hold to be one of the most

beautiful and most marvellous productions of all our varied manufactures ;

I Iand must confess that, at the present day, am disgusted with that

idiotic fashion which rejects this splendid production for the small lead

panes of a greenish bubbly glass, which, with difficulty is now made bad
enough to imitate the early and most imperfect state of the glass

manufacture ; and which the bad taste or rather the absence of taste
of the present generation admires and " tries to live up to."
     IIt need not, therefore, be a matter of surprise that
                                                               felt a

Istrong desire to cheapen and facilitate the production of plate glass,
a manufacture which, in my enthusiasm,          attacked at all points,

beginning with the preparation, sorting, cleansing and blending of the

raw materials employed, followed by the novel device of a circular

reverberatory furnace, in which the founding pots were arranged in a

large circular chamber surmounted by a flatly-curved dome. There were

also similar furnaces designed for refining the glass, having a crane

revolving with the reverberatory dome of the furnace. The crane was,

in fact, a veritable automaton, that would remove the one small cover,

which, as the dome revolved, gave access in turn to a dozen large

glass pots placed in a circle. The three arms or grips of the crane

descended vertically into the furnace, and brought up the huge crucible,

and when emptied, replaced it in three or four minutes, within half an

inch of the exact spot whence it had been lifted. The casting table

and all the annealing ovens were arranged in a circle, all accessible
Ifrom a circular railway laid down in the great casting hall.
                                                               may

also mention that every detail of the grinding and polishing machinery

had undergone an entire change, rendering these operations more rapid

I Iand more accurate.           dare not trouble my readers by entering
           feel, however, that

into further details. Suffice it to say that a revolution in the appliances

and mode of working pervaded the whole manufacture, to properly

describe which would fill an illustrated volume. Various portions of the
Ischeme were practically tested ;
                                   built a circular furnace for six large

pots and erected the automatic crane before referred to, which, like a living

thing, dived for a minute or two into the raging heat, and brought forth
PLATE XI.
                   PROJECT FOR GLASS WORKS IN LONDON                                                117

noiselessly the pot of molten glass (as easily as the human hand could
take a tumbler of water off the table), and returned it empty to the

same spot.

    I was well satisfied with the whole scheme, and wished a few

friends to join me in the erection of a plate-glass works in London.

My partner, Mr. Robert Longsdon, with his usual architectural skill

and good taste, designed the necessary buildings for a complete works,

embodying all the novel modes of conducting each department of the

manufacture. On Plate XI., in Figs. 27 and 28, illustrations, showing

an elevation and section of his design are given, just to save the whole
Iproject from oblivion.
                         have, at this moment, no sort of doubt that, had
I convinced others of one-fourth of the improvements embodied in this

new scheme, there would have been no difficulty in finding privately a

few friends who would have joined their capital to mine, and the works

would have been started. But it is difficult to impress one's ideas on
Iothers, and desired to have the personal and entire conviction of its
Ivalue on the part of all those asked to join me in the enterprise ;
Iwithout this
                   was resolved not to move further in the matter, and

aIfailing to obtain
            is
                     it,
                                     is

                             I

                                                                                              ; is
                     the whole scheme was abandoned.

There  one point in connection with patented inventions upon

which have always felt strongly.                                          have maintained that the public

derive great advantage by useful inventions being patented, because

the invention so secured valuable property, and the owner necessarily

desirous of turning that property to the greatest advantage he either

himself manufactures the patented article, or he grants licenses to others

to do so. In either case the public reap the advantage of being able

to purchase a better or a cheaper article than was before known to

them, due to the inventor's perseverance in forcing his property upon

the market. But      novel article or manufacture                                            simply proposed
                   if                                                     iIf
                                                                                         is
                        a
                                    a
by writer, and published in the technical press or in newspapers,
a

as a rule (almost without              single exception) no manufacturer will go

"Ito the trouble and expense of trying to work out the proposed invention.
He says to himself:      shall not risk the expense necessary to develop

this new idea, for may entirely fail or even                              succeed, its development
                   it
                                            it

                                                                       ;
will cost me much more than                                               will cost other manufacturers, who
                                                     HENRY BESSEMER

Iwill immediately avail themselves of it if succeed; no, let some one

else try it ; " and so the invention is lost to the world in consequence

of having been given away. This loss to the public is equally the case

Iwith patents that are not taken up ; and one of the simplest and most
effective inventions which                           ever made may be here cited as an

example, as it formed part of the novel system of plate-glass manufacture

just referred to. When a sheet of plate glass some 10 ft. or 12 ft.

long and 6 ft. or 7 ft. wide has been ground perfectly flat on both sides,

it is still dull and grey, and has to be polished. For this purpose it is

usual to fix it firmly on to a large stone polishing table, so that the

powerful alternate pushing and pulling of the polishing rubbers over

its surface may not break or displace the sheet. To do this a large

quantity of plaster-of-Paris is mixed with water, and spread as quickly

as possible over the surface of a stone table much larger than a billiard

table. Then the sheet of glass is dexterously laid upon the semi-fluid

plaster, and carefully bedded by expert workmen so as to be well

supported at all parts of its extensive surface ; the superfluous plaster

lying beyond the edges of the plate of glass is then scraped away. The

polishing machine must remain idle until the plaster is sufficiently firm

and hard to retain the glass safely in place. Care must also be taken

to thoroughly remove all smears of plaster around the edges and any

splashes on the surface, for the plaster is always more or less gritty,

and one or two particles of sharp grit will play havoc with the polished

surface, scratching it terribly. Let us suppose that one side of the
Itgreat glass sheet has been polished.
Aand this requires much skill.                                       is then necessary to unbed

it,                                                  man at each corner inserts  thin
                is                                                               a
                                                  a
                                                                                       it
blade of steel and gently prises the sheet up he must not spring
                                                                     ;

much, or the corner will snap off, and considerably diminish the size

of the sheet when squared up. With much risk and trouble, the plate

of glass  eventually released, and lifted off the stone bed then the
                                                                        ;

workmen proceed to chip off the hard plaster which firmly adheres

to the table. This makes great mess all round the polishing machine

by the flying about of chips of plaster. The stone table having been       is
chipped all over, and scraped quite clean, a fresh lot of plaster again
mixed up, dexterously spread, and the sheet of glass, with its unpolished
           PNEUMATIC GLASS POLISHING TABLE               119

surface uppermost, is again bedded on the table, and all superfluous

surrounding plaster carefully cleared away. Again the powerful polishing

machine remains inactive, until the sheet of glass is firmly stuck to the

bed, and, after polishing, the same dangerous process of springing the

glass loose from the table has to be repeated.      After its removal, the

bed has to be chipped all over, and the hard coating of the plaster-of-

Paris removed, for the reception of another plate.

Such is the laborious, dirty, and risky process to which every

sheet of plate glass is subjected in the ordinary course of its manu-
Ifacture. Now let us see what was the simple mode which
                                                         patented

of holding down a sheet of plate glass securely during the polishing
Iprocess.
           employed (see Figs. 29 to 32, page 120) a cast-iron ribbed

plate of the size of the polishing stone table, on the upper side of

which a large slab of slate (such as is used for billiard tables) was
supported and bedded on the ribs of the iron plate. This surface

was then ground flat, in the same manner as plate glass, the

space beneath the slate and between the iron ribs forming a shallow

box. A number of round holes of about a quarter of an inch in

diameter were made through the slab of slate all over its surface, at a
distance of 4 in. or 5 in. apart, so that air could enter the iron box
freely from all parts of its surface ; a pipe of 1 in. in diameter led to

a steam jet or other exhauster, so that air could be withdrawn from
the box or let into it by a small hand-tap, as desired. This, then, was
the whole apparatus which constituted the invention ; it was extremely

inexpensive, and once made, almost indestructible.
       This device took the place of the stone table under the ordinary

polishing machine. Its operation may be described as follows : The

sheet of glass to be polished is gently slid upon the table, and covers

all the small holes in the slate bed; and if then the small tap which

connects the underside of the slate table with the steam jet or other

exhaust apparatus is turned on, a partial vacuum is formed beneath the
sheet of glass, and it becomes in an instant immovably fixed and adherent
to the slate bed on which it rests. There is no plaster employed, and

consequently none of the mess or labour attending its mixture and chipping
off; there is no delay in the use of the polishing machine while the plaster
120

     c
                                           C

     co

     000000000o o o
     ooo on

     OO OoOOOOO                               jC09O 0020O
                                               !  o
     oOOoo oOoooOoOOoOooOooOooOo
                                                   H
                                                  p
                                                  PM
                                                   P3

     OOOooOoOoOoOoOoOoO                            g

                                                  1

                                                  og
                                                  0Elj3

                                                  p^

                                                  fl

                                                         PQ

                                              o

                                              CO

                                                         CM
                                                        ao5

                        mI

     N
                 PNEUMATIC GLASS POLISHING TABLE    121

is becoming hard, or when it is being cleared away. The plate of glass

is an absolute fixture in less than a quarter of a minute after the

exhaust is turned on ; and it is as rapidly released by reversing the tap

and readmitting the air to the box. The plate is then turned over,

and the tap being opened to the exhaust, it instantly becomes re-fixed

to the slate surface ; there is no cost of plaster, there is no labour, and no

risk of snapping off the corner of the plate to release it. Take a moderate-

sized plate of 6 ft. by 10 ft. (60 square feet), and take a very low
exhaust, say, 2 Ib. per square inch, equal to 288 Ib. per foot or

17,280 Ib. of atmospheric pressure, holding it immovably fixed. Every

schoolboy who has seen how powerfully the glass bell of an air-pump

is held in place by atmospheric pressure, must understand this simple,

effective, cleanly, inexpensive, safe and rapid way of holding down a

plate of glass.

IThis invention, which formed one item of the many improve-
ments in the plate - glass manufacture which      did not carry out,

has been available for the free and unrestricted use of the public

for nearly fifty years, and yet no plate-glass works in this, or any

other, country has taken advantage of it. The simple fact is that

an invention must be nursed and tended as a mother nurses her baby,

or it inevitably perishes. Nor is this almost incredible indifference to

their interest the result of the invention being unknown to the public ;

Ifor exhibited a polishing table so constructed, among many other

things, in the International Exhibition  of 1851, where it became one

of the most attractive of my exhibits.    I well remember that on one
Ioccasion
           was requested to be present   two hours prior to the opening

of the Exhibition to the public, and had the honour of showing and

explaining the device to Her Most Gracious Majesty, who was on that
occasion accompanied by His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales and

other distinguished persons.                        used a plate of

    IThe slate table was about 4 ft. by 3 ft., and

polished glass a little less than a square yard, weighing about 36 Ib.

The firm way in which it was held was most easily demonstrated by

placing one side of the plate about four or five inches on the edge of
the slate bed, and allowing the remainder to project Not only did

                                                                                                                                           B
122             HENRY BESSEMER

Ithe atmospheric pressure sustain the plate overhanging in this way, but
no one could lift it up or force it down.  was also able to illustrate

a fact but little known, viz., that a plate of perfectly flat ground glass

lying in absolute contact with a true plane surface cannot be smashed
Iby a blow from a wooden mallet with a curved face.
                                                     have struck

my yard-square sheet of glass at the Exhibition, when held down by

Iatmospheric pressure, dozens of times before the public, as hard as

could strike it with a wooden mallet, and never broke a single sheet
Ifin doing so.
                it lay hollow and not in absolute contact with the

table, a child could fracture it in a dozen places, but when in contact

all over its surface, no amount of force less than that at which glass

Icrushes to powder will crack a properly supported sheet. From what
I Ihave said think have shown that, however self-evident an invention

may be, or however advantageous it might be to a manufacturer, if it

is public property he will not touch it.

    I have already so far trespassed on the patience of my readers
Iin reference to the manufacture of glass that must bring these remarks
Ito a close. But there is just one little point that may be excused

for mentioning ; it has reference to the silvering of glass, which every-

one knows was effected by the amalgamation with mercury of a large

sheet of thin tinfoil, the amalgam adhering to the surface and remaining

on the side next the glass, a beautifully-polished and highly-reflecting

surface. But it had a bluish or leaden hue that was most unfavourable

Ito the fair sex, and spoiled the best complexion. thought much over this

defect, and at last succeeded in greatly improving the whiteness of the

Ireflection. This effected by the use of pure silver powder. The sheet

of tinfoil was employed as before, and amalgamated with mercury, the

greater part of which was drained off the surface of the foil, and then

pure silver in the form of an impalpable powder (known as silver-bronze
powder), was freely dusted all over the amalgamated surface. The fine

silver particles became rapidly amalgamated or dissolved by the mercury,

and when the sheet of glass was slid on and pressure applied, an amalgam

of pure silver coated the glass, greatly improving the brilliancy and

colour of the mirror. This method seemed likely to have a great future,

but before it got into use, a process suggested by Liebig some years
SILVERING GLASS MIRRORS  123

before was developed and applied in a practical form by Professor Henry
Draper. By this method of working, which he used for the silvering
of glass mirrors for reflecting telescopes, Professor Draper entirely
dispensed with the tinfoil and mercury process, and deposited pure
silver direct on to the glass from its solution. This was a far more
perfect mode than my own of putting pure silver on to the glass, and

quite put an end to my process. At the present day all glass mirrors

are silvered by one or the other of several modified forms of Leibig's

admirable invention.
                           CHAPTER IX

THE EXHIBITION OF 1851

, A BOUT this period everyone was interested in the forthcoming Inter-
I-*"*- national Exhibition of 1851.
                                     had applied for space to exhibit

the process of separating molasses from crystallized sugar by my combined

steam and centrifugal apparatus ; this formed a very attractive display.
The crystallised sugar, with its adhesive coating of brown treacle, was
spun round in the wire cage at a speed of 1,800 revolutions per minute ;
and on throwing a bowlful of cold water into the machine, in thirty seconds

the dark sticky mass was like a snowdrift, with its sparkling crystals

compactly spread round the revolving basket. Crowds of people would
stand round the machine, and seemed never tired of witnessing its

operations.                      the development of the International

    I took a deep interest in    I used to pass long mornings in the

Exhibition, and as an exhibitor

Ibuilding very frequently, prior to its public opening in May, 1851.
On one of these occasions  chanced to meet my esteemed old friend,

the late Mr. Bryan Donkin, F.R.S., and he went with me to see

how my exhibits were being fixed up. Seeing my centrifugal machine, he

said : " Why do you not show that old scheme of yours for raising large

I Ivolumes of water by centrifugal force?" "Oh," replied, " had almost

forgotten it." He said, " Everybody is fond of looking at a cascade,

and a large body of water such as you can lift would make one of the

Imost interesting exhibits in the mechanical department." Thus encouraged,
   next day sat down to my drawing-board, and schemed a combined-engine
Iand centrifugal pump, which
                                 afterwards exhibited. There was very

little time to make all new patterns and large loam castings ; indeed, it

Iseemed almost impossible to do so. But posted my drawings to Messrs.

George Forester and Co., Engineers, of Liverpool, who had previously
                     THE EXHIBITION OF 1851                    125

executed some important orders for machinery for me. My instructions

Ifwere : " you can make the combined steam engine and centrifugal pump

in thirty-two days from the receipt of this, and undertake to deliver

it at the Exhibition building on the thirty-third day, set to work at once

and make it ; but if you cannot undertake to do so, do not touch it at
I Iall, as must hold you responsible.
                                       know it is a most arduous task,

but if you execute so important an order in so short a period it will do

Iyou much credit, and will put on the side of the machine a conspicuous

brass plate, giving the full address of your firm as makers, with the date

of order and date of delivery engraved thereon." The result was that

the whole apparatus was admirably finished and delivered one day before

the prescribed limit. Some months later Messrs. Forester and Co. executed

for me two combined engines and pumps, each of which, when set

temporarily at work in Toxteth Park, Liverpool, was found to discharge

109 tons of water per minute at a height of 7 ft. above the source

of supply. These pumps were afterwards erected for the drainage of some

sugar estates in Demerara, which lay 5 ft. below high-water mark in the

tidal river into which they were drained, and each of them lifted a

small rivulet 10 ft. wide by 18 in. deep, flowing at a  speed  of three
                                                        stand  alone in
miles an hour.
I ITo my no small surprise,
                     found that              did not

the Exhibition as the inventor of centrifugal pumps, for there were two
others, one by Mr. Appold, and another by Messrs. Gwynne, from the

United States ; each of these was doubtless a separate and distinct

invention.

Notwithstanding my frequent visits to the Exhibition to superintend

the erection of my exhibits, the place remained as fresh and as full of
Iinterest as though
                     had never been inside those magic walls of glass.

How vividly still my mind retains the impression of the opening day;

what a glorious May morning, the crowning day of expectation to so

many thousands ! We were warned that unless we started from home
Ivery early, we should never reach the building by 11 A.M.
                                                            lived then

on the road to Highgate, only two miles off. My wife and my eldest
sister left home with me in a brougham at 8 A.M. Even at that early
hour the streets were thronged ; all London was astir, and as we slowly
126  HENRY BESSEMER

neared the Park the streets were densely crowded ; everyone in holiday
attire, all looking joyous and brimming over with eager expectations.
Very soon our quiet trot had dwindled to a walking pace, and as we
entered the Park by the Marble Arch, our progress ceased in an
absolute stop, followed by a little move preparatory to another long
stop. We had got into the Park by 9 A.M., and there were yet two

hours, but we had begun even then to fear we might not reach the
building in time. There was no intentional obstruction, and the police

did all they could under impossible conditions; we were hemmed in on

all sides by carriages and pedestrians, and were almost immovable. An
hour's intermittent motion had brought us from the Marble Arch to the
Piccadilly entrance, from which rolled another avalanche of almost
hopelessly struggling humanity. Yet all was good-humour and high

expectation ; tickets were flourished from innumerable carriage windows,

and fair ladies in their sweetest and most persuasive tones, asked aid of
the police, who were powerless to help them. Another half-hour from the
Piccadilly entrance brought us in full sight of the fairy palace, which

sparkled in the sun, but was as yet a few hundred yards distant. But
we were in an almost solid mass of carriages, horses, policemen, and

pedestrians. A look at my watch showed me that there was no hope

for us if we kept our seats in the brougham. We were within fifty

yards of the building, and we agreed to get out and chance struggling
up to the door on foot. Hundreds of ladies in their satin shoes descended
from their carriages to the gravel, and with their beautiful dresess pulled
tightly round them, trusted to their feet. In charge of my two ladies

I showed my tickets and got, at last, passed on to the doors, which

we entered ten minutes before the appointed time, and just three hours

after we had started. We hurried to our places, and could now breathe
more freely ; the air was full of perfume from the sweet flowers that
filled all vacant places, and added a lustre to the gorgeous scene. When

the formal processions had gone round the building, there came the
one great treat of the opening day, never to be forgotten by those who
heard it. The sister of my old friend Alfred Novello, Miss Clara
Novello, sang the National Anthem, and by a supreme effort, her full
melodious voice filled the whole space with a glorious volume of sound
                      CONSULTATIONS WITH INVENTORS     127

that could not fail to inspire the deepest feeling of loyalty. And as
her voice rose and fell to the cadences of the beautiful Anthem, the

thousands of faces of those present showed at a glance how all were
moved by feelings of deep emotion and loyalty to Her Most Gracious

Majesty, and to Prince Albert, whose cherished dream of the Inter-
national Exhibition was thus so happily realised.

Returning again to the quiet daily routine, life at that period found

Ime pretty regular in my attendance at the office in Queen Street
Place, where  often spent a few hours with some client, who had

sought advice in reference to an invention, possibly more or less

crude and impracticable, or, it may be, of great value if only a little

more mechanical knowledge had been expended on its details. Such
Iinvestigations were sometimes very interesting ; and
                                                       well remember

several inventions which were brought before me at that time, and which

have since taken their place among the important mechanical improve-

ments of the present century ; while many others that were essentially

bad and wholly impracticable were fought for by their luckless inventors

with a tenacity worthy of a better cause. It was just this class of

inventors that one could not convince of the false notions under which

they laboured ; if a man knew so little of mechanical laws as to suppose

that by some tricky arrangement of levers which he had devised he
could make the descent of 20 Ib. lift up 40 Ib. to the same height, it
took a vast deal of labour to convince him of his error; and he paid

consultation fees with the inward belief still clinging to him that,

somehow or other he was right, only he could not make me see things
Iin the proper light. But generally
                                     found it possible to bring home
Ito the most prejudiced minds such unpleasant facts, and have in many

cases received the most frank and friendly acknowledgments from men

who would have spent hundreds of pounds in search of the impossible

had not an hour's discussion shown the fallacy of their convictions.

    IDuring the years 1852 and 1853, was very busy with inventions
I Iof my own, for find that in those two years took out no less than

twelve patents, that  is,  on an average, one every two months. These

being mechanical inventions relating to manufactures, there arose, in

each case, much studying of details, and many original drawings had
128            HENRY BESSEMER

to be made in addition to the specifications to be written and claims

to be settled. Some of these were followed up with results that were
highly satisfactory ; but it was my misfortune that inventions sprung

up in my mind without being sought, and as soon as a new idea

presented itself there was no peace for me until the first crude notions

were shaped and moulded into a tangible form, and this again criticised

and improved upon. Then came experimental research, or in many

cases the invention was patented as a mere theoretical deduction

because it had to make room for the next : whereas each invention,

to be made a commercial success, required to be carefully and forcibly

brought under the notice of the particular trade to which it referred.
     IIn regard to one of these patents of 1853
                                                   will just say a word

or two, as a mere record of a first proposal to stop a railway train

Iby the simultaneous application of a brake on every carriage wheel
of the train.  fully appreciated the advantages of this simultaneous

action on every wheel, because by such means a train of twenty or

thirty carriages could be stopped just as quickly and as easily as a

single carriage, since each vehicle was subjected to the same retarding

action ; but it was necessary that this should be effected, as far as possible,

without any complicated mechanical arrangements likely to get out

Iof order in practice. My invention, which call the hydrostatic brake,

was one of extreme simplicity. Under ordinary circumstances the appli-

cation of hydraulic power means packed pistons, water-tight stuffing-boxes,

inlet and outlet valves, etc., all of which mechanical appliances were,

in my plan, entirely dispensed with, and a rectangular cell of vulcanite

rubber was used for transmission of the pressure.
     AThe arrangement was as follows :
                                        rectangular iron box was held

by bolts passing through flanges at each end, by means of which it was

secured to the underside of the carriage frame. The interior of the box

was 7J in. long by 4 in. broad and 8 in. deep, and there was fitted inside
it a block of wood, not unlike one of the blocks used in street paving,

and having a curved lower surface fitting the tyre of the carriage wheel.

IjThis block projected downwards from the mouth of the box, and left a

space of in. between it and the upper closed side. Into this space was
fitted a hollow rectangular chamber or box of vulcanised rubber, capable
             CONTINUOUS BRAKES FOR RAILWAYS  129

of expanding and contracting ; it was attached to the wood-block on its

lower surface and to the box on its upper side. There was a small pipe
which connected the chamber with a continuous pipe leading to the

locomotive, where the driver could turn water pressure on or off instantly

whenever necessary. Each of the rubber chambers contracted by external

atmospheric pressure if connected to the exhaust, and lifted the wood-

block from off the wheel ; but the instant that pressure was applied,

each of the chambers expanded, and pressing on its wood-block forced

it in contact with the wheel and retarded the motion. Thus if the wood

block were 7J in. by 4 in., it presented a surface of 30 square inches,

and every 10 Ib. to the inch pressure on its surface was equal to 300 Ib.

on the wheel. The main leading pipe was always charged with water,

which is non-elastic, and was permanently in communication with each
Ifof the chambers.
                    half a pint of water was exhausted from each

chamber, the block was raised more than half an inch from the wheel,

and relieved the pressure. Modifications of this simple brake have been

made ; but it came before its time, and was not accepted by the railway
Icompanies.
             am pleased to have lived long enough to see continuous

brakes universally adopted, for by them vast numbers of persons have

been saved from injury or death.
CHAPTER X

EAKLY GUNNERY EXPERIMENTS

 A T the time when the Crimean War broke out, the attention of

-A- many persons was directed to the state of our armaments, and

I, like others, fully shared the interest which was excited. The question

of elongated projectiles had been previously considered, but we were quite

unprepared at that time with rifled ordnance.  In thinking over this

subject, it occurred to me that it would be possible to give rotation to

a projectile, when fired from a smooth-bore gun, by allowing a portion

of the powder gas to escape through longitudinal passages formed in
Ifthe interior, or on the outer surface, of the projectile.
                                                             such passages

terminated in the direction of a tangent to the circumference of the

projectile, the tangential emission of powder gas (under enormous

pressure) would act as in a turbine, and       produce a rapid rotatory

motion of the projectile. It may at first      sight appear that such a
                                               of power, but it must be
method would be attended with great loss

remembered that in any system of rifled ordnance enormous energy is

required to revolve a heavy projectile, to say nothing of the power

lost by the friction of the studs in the rifled grooves.

     It was under the impression that my invention would enable all

existing smooth-bore guns to be at once utilised for discharging elongated

shells and solid projectiles, and would at the same time solve a problem

Iof great national importance, that applied for and obtained a patent

on the 24th November, 1854. It will be evident that this system of

giving rotation to elongated projectiles might, in some cases, have

rendered it desirable to hoop, or otherwise strengthen, existing guns,

or to construct new guns of greater strength than those then in general

use. But the main question was: Can rotation be given efficiently

Iwithout the manifold disadvantages of rifling ? As a matter of fact,
         EARLY GUNNERY EXPERIMENTS  131

submitted my plans to the War Office, and, after some considerable
Idelay,
         was informed that the invention was not of a nature to be

used, or experimented upon, by the War Department. Our War

Department had at that time no artillery that could throw an elongated

projectile; yet with that ever-ready tendency of our military authorities

to pooh-pooh every proposition of the civil engineer, my scheme was

set aside, and so simple and inexpensive an experiment as the manufac-

ture of half a dozen cast-iron elongated projectiles was refused. Nothing

more than this was required, as they had plenty of cast-iron guns in

                                        FIG. 33. SECTION OP EXPERIMENTAL MORTAR

store, and all other needful appliances. I, however, was determined to

Iascertain for myself whether was right or wrong in my belief that

rotation could be effected simply by the emission of a portion of the

Igases in the manner described, and for this purpose made a simple
Icast-iron gun of 5j--in. bore, and of short length. As had no butt
Ito fire into, thought it best to use the gun as a mortar, and discharge

it into the air at an angle of 45 deg. of elevation ; by using small charges

I ensured the projectiles falling in my own grounds near Highgate, where
I was then living. The gun was a simple bored cylinder, cast all in one

piece with the framing, which, with its wide base-plate B,* served for
a carriage, as shown in the section in Fig. 33. The projectiles weighed
132          HENRY BESSEMER

60 lb. each, and were turned and truly fitted to the bore of the gun ;

the form of projectile employed is given at D, which is an elevation

Ishowing by dots one of its longitudinal passages with the tangential

aperture at d* With this simple apparatus commenced my trials,
Iusing extremely small charges of powder, which
                                                 gradually increased

until the projectile reached an estimated altitude of 200 ft., and fell

to earth well within my own grounds. In order to clearly see that
Ithe projectile revolved during flight,
ftwo holes,                              bored on its opposite sides

             in. in diameter and 2 in. in depth, in a radial direction,

as shown in section at e e. These holes were tightly rammed with

Idamp meal powder, and on firing the gun (as used no wad) the powder

became ignited and fizzed away like a squib. Standing beside the

Igun saw the shot soaring, with its flat end presented to me, and by

its rapid rotation the two squibs formed a sort of revolving Catherine-

wheel, which burned until after the shot had fallen to earth, thus proving

beyond all controversy that the projectile both rotated and went end-on

Iduring its whole flight. But still was no nearer my object, and might
Ifor ever have remained as was, but for an accidental circumstance
Iwhich will relate.

       Some few months after these preliminary experiments were ' made,

I happened to be one of a house party, staying with Lord James Hay

at the residence of his married daughter, Madame Gudin, in the Rue

Balzac, Paris. Our host gave a farewell dinner to General Hamlin,

and a number of other French officers, who were going to the Crimea.

Among the guests present on that occasion was Prince Napoleon, to
Iwhom was introduced by my host as the inventor of a new system
Iof firing elongated projectiles from smooth-bore guns.
                                                         happened to have

with me a tiny pocket model, made in mahogany, of one of these new

projectiles, which, in order that it might be more easily understood,

had the passages for the escape of gas formed in its exterior surface,

instead of in the interior, as will be seen from the annexed engraving,

Fig. 34, representing in full size this little model projectile, which

I made more than forty years ago, and which is still in my posses-

Ijsion. Its action was very prettily shown in this way : an upright glass
tube of  in. internal diameter (accurately fitting the shot) had its lower
EARLY GUNNERY EXPERIMENTS                                   133

Ifend stopped up so that it resembled the barrel of a gun.  the model

shot were put into the upper end of this glass tube, when held in a vertical

position, it could not sink down to the bottom without displacing the air

contained in the tube. This air necessarily found an escape through

the external passages ; and by the force induced by the escape of air

in the direction of a tangent to the circumference, a slow and steady

rotation of the little mahogany projectile was observed, as it gradually

sank down to the lower end of the glass tube. Prince Napoleon was

very much pleased with the idea, and said that he was sure that his

FIG. 34. MODEL OP BESSEMER'S REVOLVING SHOT .

cousin, the Emperor, would take great interest in my invention, and

that he would get an appointment for me to show it to him. A few

Idays later, received a note from Colonel Belleville requesting my
Iattendance on the following morning at the Tuileries, where had a most

interesting interview with the Emperor, who gave me carte blanche

to go to Vincennes, and there order to be made everything that was

necessary to fairly test my invention. I, however, found that it was
Imuch more difficult to get what
                                  wanted made at Vincennes than

it would have been at my own works in London, where other matters
Irequired my attention.
                         consequently sought another interview with
134                  HENRY BESSEMER

Ithe Emperor, when explained this fact to him, and asked permission

to make the projectiles in London, and bring them over. No objection

Iwas raised to this proposal, and as was about to take my leave the
IEmperor said : " In this case you will be put to some expense ; will

have that seen to."
     IA few days after my return to London,
                                             received a letter from

the Due de Bassano, enclosing an autograph letter from the Emperor,

addressed to Messrs. Baring Bros., Bankers, London, giving me credit

for "costs of manufacturing projectiles," but without naming any sum.

Whatever private instructions there may have been given as a limit

Ito the amount of credit, none were visible to me ; and could not help

forcibly contrasting this delicate and generous treatment by the Emperor

with the curt refusal of our own military authorities to give my invention
a trial at home.

     In a few weeks, the projectiles necessary for the experiments

were all made under my own eye, and packed ready for transport.

There were 24-lb. and 30-lb. elongated shots of 4.75 in. in diameter,

fitting the 12 -pounder smooth-bore French guns, gauges for which had
Ibeen sent to me in order to ensure accuracy in size.
                                                            had been

provided with a special permit to pass the Customs House at Calais,
Inotwithstanding which, my passport was rigidly examined, and
Ilooked at and questioned by all sorts of officials before     was

                                                            was allowed

to proceed on my journey.

      I, as specially directed, went straight on to Vincennes on the

following morning, and was met by Commandant Minie* (the inventor
of the rifle which bears that name), who had received instructions to

superintend the experiments and report thereon to the Emperor.

      In the large open plain known as the Polygon, at Vincennes, a

series of thin wooden targets had been set up, one behind the other

at about 100 metres apart. My projectiles were fired point-blank at

these targets, and generally passed through five or six of them before

reaching the ground, making round holes in each, and showing that

all the shots went end-on. In order to enable- us to measure the

Iamount of rotation of the shots, had given them a thin hard coating

ot black Japan varnish, which was partly scratched off and scored in
      EXPERIMENTS AT VINCENNES WITH ROTATING PROJECTILES            135

lines when passing through the thin planks. There were a few inches of

snow on the ground at the time these experiments were made, and we

could observe the projectiles ricocheting away to the left as a result

of their continued rotation after striking the ground, and sending up

the snow in little jets, thus indicating where they were to be found.

On recovery, the spiral lines scored on the japanned surface in its

passage through the target gave every facility for ascertaining the

angle, and consequently the amount of rotation. It was thus ascertained

that -from one and a-half to two and a-quarter rotations had taken

place in the length of the gun, or a greater amount of twist than was

usually given at Woolwich to projectiles of that calibre. Evidence was

thus afforded that the dogmatic way in which the invention had been

ignored by our military authorities was in no way justified. Whatever

the real merits or demerits of my invention may have been, it was at

least shown that, at a time when we had no established rifled system,

this early attempt at a solution of the difficulty had sufficient merit to

render it worthy of a trial.
      By the time the experiments were concluded the winter sun had

almost disappeared, and both weary and cold, the several officers, who

took part in the day's trials, and myself walked back to the grim old

fortress of Vincennes, and after threading our way along the cold stone
Apassages, we found ourselves in the officers' quarters.
                                                          bright blazing

fire of logs on the low hearth looked so inviting that we all instinctively

                and under the happy influence of a steaming cup of
gathered round;

     it
                         a it,

                                          it
                                                               it

                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                                  ?

                                                                                                           it
good mulled claret, there was much noisy talking and gesticulation.

During one of our more quiet intervals, Commandant Minie remarked

that  was quite true that the shot revolved with sufficient rapidity,

and went point forward through the targets and that, he said, was

very satisfactory as far as  went. But he entirely mistrusted their

present guns, and he did not consider  safe in practice to fire a

30-lb. shot from 12-pounder cast-iron gun. The real question, he said,

was Could any guns be made to stand such heavy projectiles  This

simple observation was the spark which has kindled one of the greatest

industrial revolutions that the present century has to record, for

instantly forced on my attention the real difficulty of the situation,
136                         HENRY BESSEMER

viz. : How were we to make a gun that would be strong enough
Ito throw with safety these heavy elongated projectiles ?
                                                                 well

remember how, on my lonely journey back to Paris that cold

IDecember night, inwardly resolved, if possible, to complete the work

so satisfactorily begun, by producing a superior description of cast-iron

that would stand the heavy strains which the increased weight of
                                     IAt that moment
the projectiles rendered necessary.                   had no idea
Iwhatever in which way could attack this new and important problem,

but the mere fact that there was something to discover, something of
Itgreat importance to achieve, was sufficient to spur me on.
                                                                 was

indeed to me like the first cry of the hounds in the hunting field, or
Itthe last uncertain miles of the chase to the eager sportsman.
                                                                 was
Ia clear run that had before me a fortune and a name to win and
Ionly so much time and labour lost if failed in the attempt. When,
Ia few days later, personally reported to the Emperor the results of
I Ithe trials at Vincennes,
                            told His Majesty that  had made up

my mind to study the whole question of metals suitable for the

construction of   guns, a   proposal which  he encouraged by many kind
                  a desire                  communicate to him the result
expressions, and            Ithat should

of my labours.

     My knowledge of iron metallurgy was at that time very limited,

and consisted only of such facts as an engineer must necessarily observe

in the foundry or smith's shop ; but this was in one sense an advantage

Ito me, for had nothing to unlearn. My mind was open and free to

receive any new impressions, without having to struggle against the

bias which a lifelong practice of routine operations cannot fail more or

less to create.

     A little reflection, assisted by a good deal of practical knowledge

of the properties of copper and its several alloys, made me reject all

these from the first, and look to the metal iron, or some of its combinations,

as the only material suitable for heavy ordnance. At that time nearly

all our guns were simply unwrought masses of cast iron, and it was

Iconsequently to the improvement of cast iron that first directed my

attention.

     The experiments at Vincennes took place on or about the 22nd
MATERIAL FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF GUNS                 137

IDecember, 1854, and before the close of that year found myself once

more at Baxter House, busy with plans for the production of an

improved metal for the manufacture of guns, which improvement in
Ithe quality of the iron proposed to effect by the fusion of steel in a
Ibath of molten pig-iron in a reverberatory furnace.
                                                      soon determined

on the form of furnace, and applied for a patent for my " Improvements

in the Manufacture of Iron and Steel," which was dated as early as

January 10th, 1855 that  is,  within three weeks after the experiments

in the Polygon at Vincennes.
CHAPTER XI

THE GENESIS OF THE BESSEMER PROCESS

TT will, perhaps, assist the non-technical reader to understand what

-- Ifollows if explain, in a few words, the forms in which iron and
Isteel existed at the time when
                                 commenced the experiments which

resulted in the creation of the Bessemer process. At that date there

was no steel suitable for structural purposes. Ships, bridges, railway

rails, tyres and axles were constructed of wrought iron, while the use of

steel was confined to cutlery, tools, springs, and the smaller parts of

machinery. This steel was manufactured by heating bars of Swedish

wrought iron for a period of some six weeks in contact with charcoal,

during which period a part of the carbon was transferred to the iron. The

bars were then broken into small pieces, and melted in crucibles holding

not more than 60 Ib. each. The process was long and costly, and the

maximum size of ingot which could be produced was determined by the

number of crucibles a given works could deal with simultaneously. Such

steel when rolled into bars was sold at 50 to 60 a ton. The wrought

iron bars from which the steel was made were manufactured from pig-iron,

as was all wrought iron, by the process known as "puddling." Naturally,

such a process was costly ; puddling demands great strength and endurance

on the part of the workmen, combined with much skill.

Practically, all objects in iron, except such as were simply castings,

were at that time made from wrought iron manufactured by puddling.

IThe object set before myself was to produce a metal having characteristics

comparable with those of wrought iron or steel, and yet capable of being
                                                       I was aware that
run into a mould or ingot in a fluid condition.

Fairbairn and others had sought to improve cast iron by the fusion

of some malleable scrap, along with the pig iron, in the cupola furnace.
This fusion of scrap-iron, intermixed with a mass of coke, was found
       THE GENESIS OF THE BESSEMER PROCESS  139

to convert the malleable iron into white cast iron, which was at

the same time much contaminated with sulphur. Therefore, to a

great extent, this system had failed in its object. In my experi-

Iments avoided the difficulties inseparable from Fairbairn's method,

by employing a reverberatory furnace in which the pig-iron was fused.
IInto the bath so formed
                          put broken-up bars of blister-steel, made

from Swedish or other charcoal - iron, its fusion taking place without

its being further carburised by contact with the solid fuel, or con-

taminated by the absorption of sulphur. The high temperature

necessary for the fusion of a large proportion of steel in the bath

was obtained by constructing the fire-grate much wider than the

bath, by contracting the width of the furnace considerably at the

bridge, and also by continuing to taper slightly the furnace all the

way from the fore-bridge to the downcast flue, which was connected

with a tall chimney-shaft. Many alterations and modifications of this

furnace were made from time to time, but it was found that the large
volume of flame sweeping over the open hearth of the furnace was

mixed with a considerable quantity of combustible gas. To consume

this gas a hollow fire-bridge was employed, having numerous perforations

made in the clay lumps of which it was composed, and so arranged
as to allow jets of hot atmospheric air to mingle with these combustible

gases, and produce an intense heat close down to the surface of the

bath. It was also found that this admission of hot air all along the back

of the fire-bridge produced a decarbonising action on the bath ; hence

the state of carburation of the metal might be altered by regulating

the admission of air. This passage of air through the hollow fire-

bridge served also to keep down the temperature of the latter and

render it more durable.
I4 Some of the samples of metal which
                                       produced were, when

annealed, of an extremely fine grain, and of great strength. At this

Istage of my experiments cast a small model gun, which in the lathe

gave shavings slightly curled, and closely resembling the turnings from

a steel ingot ; the metal, when polished, also looked white and close-
Igrained like steel.
Ithat                 was so well pleased with this little model gun

       took it over to Paris, obtained an audience with, and showed
140                  HENRY BESSEMER

it to, the Emperor, who had encouraged this attempt to improve the
iron employed in founding heavy ordnance. His Majesty, who had

desired me to report progress, accepted this experimental gun, remarking
                                                                   It was in
that some day it might have an historical interest.

recognition of this circumstance that His Majesty, later on, intimated,

through Colonel Belleville, his desire to confer on me the decoration

Iof the Legion of Honour, provided could obtain permission to wear

        privilege which our Ambassador twice refused. His Majesty
it,
     a

      I
                                                      I
also sanctioned the erection of my furnace at the Government Cannon

Foundry at Ruelle, near Angouleme, to which place                  went with

proper introductions for the purpose of arranging all the necessary

details.  also sent over from England several thousand special fire-

bricks, etc., for the erection of the furnaces.

        But, on resuming my further researches, after my return to London,

an incident occurred which suddenly put a stop to the intended works

at the Ruelle gun -foundry, and in fact altered all my future plans

and investigations.

        The furnace, as then arranged, shown in vertical section in Fig. 35,
                             is
and in horizontal section, on the line passing above the fire-bridge, inis

Fig. 36, Plate XII., the bath being empty and showing the tapping-

hole, and the way in which the furnace narrows at the fire-bridge.

Fig. 37, on the same Plate,  also a horizontal section, taken on a

line passing through the openings in the perforated hollow fire-bridge,

and clearly shows how the jets of air were directed so as to produce

an intense ignition of the combustible gases, mingled with, and passing

over with, the large volume of flame from the overcharged fire-grate.

        The small scale on which this experimental furnace was built

it, (a  capacity of  cwt. only) was much against my obtaining the
                   I
                         3                                         large proportion of steel in a
                               5

                                             a
                                                                a
high temperature necessary to melt

pig-iron bath.       was, of course, fully aware that furnace of sufficient
                                                                   a

                                                                     I
                                                                               I
capacity to cast a -ton or 10-ton gun would acquire a much higher

      temperature than was possible in my small furnace.           knew also that

      forced draught, obtained by closing in the ashpit and forcing air into

        would still further increase the temperature. That this forced

draught was in my mind at the time shown by the fact that tookis
                          EXPERIMENTS WITH OPEN-HEARTH FURNACES                               141

out a patent for the manufacture of cast steel, dated October 17th, 1855 ;

          about two months after the casting of the model gun, in which
that  is,

           I
specification fully described the forcing of air by fan into the closeda
                                                                        a
ashpits of the furnaces employed in the manufacture of cast steel. It

has since often occurred to me that, with these additional resources still

untried,I   did not act wisely in so suddenly abandoning these open-

hearth experiments, in favour of an entirely different system, suggested

to my mind by the incident to be presently referred to. But with

my impulsive nature, and intense desire to follow up every new

problem that presented itself,                  at once threw myself unreservedly
                                                I
into this new study, which seemed to open the way to the rapid
                                                        it
production of bars, rails, and plates of malleable metal direct from the

blast-furnace.

      Before dismissing this subject,                       may be interesting, even at this

distant period, to speculate on what would have been the natural

outcome of my open-hearth furnace experiments, had                         I           not been so

suddenly diverted from their further pursuit.

      Such                furnance, with forced draught and              capacity of 10 tons,
I
                       awould undoubtedly have melted malleable iron or steel in bath of pig
                                                                                       ;a
iron, and have decarburised the latter to the desired extent for had, in
                                                                                           I

fact, already fused steel, in bath of pig iron, on the open hearth of
                                                a

                                                                  of
this small reverberatory furnace; and as far back as January, 1855,
had claimed in my patent, " The fusion
                                                                      steel in a bath  of  melted pig

or cast iron in a reverberatory furnace, as herein described"

      This was about ten years prior to the patent taken out by M. Emile
Martin, and now generally known as the " Siemens-Martin process." This
latter patent was obtained in England in the name of A. Brooman, the

patent agent of Emile Martin, and                           dated August 18th, 1865, or more
                                                   is
than ten years after my patent of January 10th, 1855. M. Emile Martin
in his patent says " The manufacture                  of is
      I,                                                     effected upon the principle      of
         of

                                             :
fusion iron or natural steel in a bath cast iron, maintained at a white
heat in a reverberatory furnace, such as Siemens gas furnace"

          however, desire to say that make no claim to the prior invention
                                                I

of the Siemens-Martin process, nor do assume that my patent of 1855
                                                   I

furnished any information which either of these gentlemen had availed
142                       HENRY BESSEMER

themselves of, although my patent for melting steel in a bath of cast

iron on the hearth of a reverberatory furnace had been granted, and

the specification published, some nine years prior to M. Martin's application

Ifor his patent. But seeing how many years was in advance of M. Martin,
I feel perfectly justified in saying that the fusion of steel in a bath of pig
Iiron on the open hearth of a reverberatory furnace, which had patented

and accomplished ten years prior to the Siemens-Martin patent, was,
to use a favourite expression of Mr. Gladstone, " approaching within
measurable distance " of that successful process known as the open-hearth

manufacture of mild steel.

    IOn my return from the Ruelle gun-foundry resumed my experiments

with the open-hearth furnace, when the remarkable incident, mentioned

above, occurred in this way. Some pieces of pig iron on one side of the

bath attracted my attention by remaining unmelted in the great heat

Iof the furnace, and turned on a little more air through the fire-bridge

with the intention of increasing the combustion. On again opening the

furnace door, after an interval of half an hour, these two pieces of pig
Istill remained unfused.
                          then took an iron bar, with the intention of
Ipushing them into the bath, when discovered that they were merely thin
shells of decarburised iron, as represented at A, Fig. 37, Plate XII., showing

that atmospheric air alone was capable of wholly decarburising grey pig

iron, and converting it into malleable iron without puddling or any other

manipulation. Thus a new direction was given to my thoughts, and
Iafter due deliberation
                         became convinced that if air could be brought

into contact with a sufficiently extensive surface of molten crude iron,

it would rapidly convert it into malleable iron. This, like all new problems,
Ihad a special interest for me, and
                                     became impatient to test it by a
Ilaboratory experiment. Without loss of time had some fire-clay crucibles

made with dome-shaped perforated covers, and also with some fire-clay blow-

Ipipes, which joined on to a 3 ft. length of 1-in. gas-pipe, the opposite end

of which was attached by a piece of rubber tubing to a fixed blast-pipe.

This elastic connection permitted of the blow-pipe being easily introduced

XIII.,into and withdrawn from the crucible, as shown at Fig. 38, Plate

which represents a vertical section of an air furnace containing a crucible
that, in this case, forms the " converter." About 10 Ib. of molten grey
                                                                                  PLATE XII.

   FIG. 35. VERTICAL SECTION OF FURNACE FOR MAKING MALLEABLE IRON
FIG. 36. HORIZONTAL SECTION OF FURNACE FOR MAKING MALLEABLE IRON
FIG. 37. HORIZONTAL SECTION OF FURNACE FOR MAKING MALLEABLE IRON
    OF THE

MIVERSITY

"'
                                                       I'LATE XIII.

FIG. 38. SECTION OF CRUCIBLE  FIG. 39. SECTION OF VERTICAL CONVERTER
             WITH BLOW-PIPE

FIGS.        FIG. 41.  SECTIONS OF VERTICAL CONVERTER       FIG. 40.
       40 AND 41.                                      WITH UPPER CHAMBER
EARLY EXPERIMENTS ON THE BESSEMER PROCESS       143

pig iron half filled the crucible, and thirty minutes' blowing was found

to convert 10 Ib. of grey pig into soft malleable iron. Here at least

one great fact was demonstrated, viz., the absolute decarburisation

of molten crude iron without any manipulation, but not without fuel, for

had not a very high temperature been kept up in the air furnace all the

the time this quiet blowing for thirty minutes was going on, it would

have resulted in the solidification of the metal in the crucible long before

complete decarburisation had been effected. Hence arose the all-important

question : can sufficient internal heat be produced by the introduction

of atmospheric air to retain the fluidity of the metal until it is wholly
Idecarburised in a vessel not externally heated ? This determined to try
Iwithout delay, and fitted up a larger blast-cylinder in connection with
I Ia 20 horse-power engine which
                had daily at work.              also erected

an ordinary founder's cupola, capable of melting half a ton of pig iron.

Then came the question of the best form and size for the experimental
I" converter."
                had very little data to guide me in this, as the crucible
Iconverter was hidden from view in the furnace during the blow. found,

Ihowever, that slag was produced during the process, and escaped through

the holes to the lid. Owing to this, determined on constructing a very

simple form of cylindrical converter, about 4 ft. in height in the interior,

Iwhich was sufficiently tall and capacious, as believed, to prevent anything

but a few sparks and heated gases from escaping through a central hole
made in the flat top of the vessel for that purpose, as shown in the vertical

section at Fig. 39, Plate XIII. The converter had six horizontal

tuyeres arranged around the lower part of it ; these were connected by six

adjustable branch pipes, deriving their supply of air from an annular

rectangular chamber, extending around the converter, as shown.

     All being thus arranged, and a blast of 10 or 15 Ib. pressure turned

on, about 7 cwt. of molten pig iron was run into the hopper provided

on one side of the converter for that purpose.  All went on quietly

for about ten minutes ; sparks such as are commonly seen when tapping

a cupola, accompanied by hot gases, ascended through the opening on

Ithe top of the converter, just as supposed would be the case. But

soon after a rapid change took place ; in fact, the silicon had been

quietly consumed, and the oxygen, next uniting with the carbon, sent
144                           HENRY BESSEMER

up an ever-increasing stream of sparks and a voluminous white flame.
Then followed a succession of mild explosions, throwing molten slags
and splashes of metal high up into the air, the apparatus becoming a
veritable volcano in a state of active eruption. No one could approach
the converter to turn off the blast, and some low, flat, zinc-covered roofs,
close at hand were in danger of being set on fire by the shower of

Ired-hot matter fallingO on them. All this was a revelation to me,' as

had in no way anticipated such violent results. However, in ten minutes

more the eruption had ceased, the flame died down, and the process
was complete. On tapping the converter into a shallow pan or
ladle, and forming the metal into an ingot, it was found to be wholly

decarburised malleable iron.

       Such were the conditions under which the first charge of pig iron
was converted in a vessel neither internally nor externally heated by

fire.

      I, however, desired to convert a second charge of pig iron which

had been put into the cupola ; and in order to prevent this dangerous

projection upwards of sparks and molten slags, a temporary expedient

was resorted to, which, however, failed in its object.

    I procured one of those circular, chequered cast-iron plates so much

used in the London pavements to allow coals to be put into the cellars

below the pavement.  This plate, which was about a foot in diameter,

was suspended by a chain at a distance of about 18 in. above the

central opening in the top of the converter, as shown in Fig. 39,

Plate XIII.

     This, as a mere temporary device, was deemed sufficient to allow

the conversion of another 7 cwt. charge to be effected, without any

danger of setting fire to the premises. The converting operation went
Ion quietly as before, but when the eruption commenced,
                                                         saw the

suspended plate get rapidly red-hot, and in a few minutes more it

melted and fell away, leaving the chain dangling over the opening, and

Iallowing the slags and splashes of metal to shoot upwards as before.
Thus it happened that the first converter that  constructed was at

once condemned as commercially impracticable, owing to this vertical

eruption of cinder, and for this reason only.
               EARLY EXPERIMENTS ON THE BESSEMER PROCESS        145

     All attempts to lessen the violence of the process by the reduc-

tion of the number of tuyeres, or by lessening their diameter, or

by diminishing the pressure of the blast, only resulted in a reduc-

tion of the necessary temperature, and in preventing the conversion

of the molten pig into malleable iron. In one case the trial of a

diminished area of tuyere openings resulted in nearly the whole
charge of metal, after more than an hour's blowing, being converted
into a solid mass of brittle white iron, similar to ordinary refiner's

Iplate metal. Indeed, may say the result of all my early investigations

proved to me, beyond the possibility of a doubt, a fact which has since

been confirmed in every Bessemer steel works throughout Europe and

America, viz. : that rapidity of action, ending in a violent eruption, is

an absolutely necessary condition of success. Not only must the

converted metal acquire an enormously high temperature, so that it
may not be chilled when pouring it out of the converter, or wrhen a

relatively large quantity of much cooler metal be added to deoxidise

     but must not chill and form a shell in the ladle during the
it,
comparatively long time required for casting the ingots. Hence, to carry
         ;

           it
out the Bessemer process successfully, temperature must be obtained
                                     it
very considerably above the mere melting temperature of malleable
                                          is a
iron and in order to secure this                necessary to drive powerful
                                                    a it
streams of air into the metal, so as to divide            into innumerable tiny

globules diffused throughout the whole body of iron under treatment

which, for the time being, may be likened to fluid sponge with the

active combustion of carbon with oxygen going on in every one of its

myriads of ever-changing cavities.

     It has been found that the union of carbon and oxygen takes place

so rapidly at this high temperature as to produce series of mild explosions.
In the large converters in common use, space some ft. or 10 ft. in height
                                   is           a
                                          is a
                                                          8

above the normal level of the metal             provided, in which this violent

action expends itself unseen, and  only partially recognised by a small

quantity of slags leaping out of the mouth of the converter.
      With these facts before us, must be self evident that all attempts
               it

to produce malleable iron in a plain cylindrical vessel that has no top to

it,  and in which the metal normally rises to within in. of the open
                                                             6
146                            HENRY BESSEMER

mouth, must utterly fail from two causes : first, because heat would

fly off so freely that the temperature of molten malleable iron could never

be reached ; and secondly, because nearly all the metal contained in such

a shallow, open-topped vessel would have leaped out of and have been
                                                                          a it,
scattered in all directions on the occurrence of the explosive eruption,
                                                                              it
without which no charge of molten pig iron has, or can be, converted

into fluid malleable iron by blast of air.
aI
   it Ihad no sooner condemned my first cylindrical converter than

           is I
                                is
                                       a
                         I
                                          it a
                                                                   is
commenced to remedy its defects. The most obvious and ready way

of doing this would have been simply to make an opening on one side

of near the top, and thus allow the escape of the ejected matter to take

place horizontally, directing  against a wall, or allowing                        to fall into

pit. But       desired to prevent this discharge of metal splashes as

much as possible. Hence determined on constructing new converter

with an upper chamber, having an arched roof and conical sloping floor.a

This converter represented in Figs. 40 and 41, on Plate XIII., the last-

named view being horizontal section through the tuyeres. When                                 a

converter  so constructed, the ejected fluid, that would otherwise pass

vertically upwards into the air, thrown against the arched roof, and

any metal that may be emitted falls again on the sloping floor of the

upper chamber, and returns to the lower one. The flame and portion
                                                                                  a

of the slags find their way out of the two square lateral openings provided

for that purpose. This upper chamber also served as receptacle for
                                                                          a

heating up any metal intended to recarburise, or alloy with, the steel

in course of being converted. The sectional plan, Fig. 41, shows six

well-burned fire-clay or plumbago tuyere pipes fitted to openings
left in the lining for that purpose. Their outer ends were made conical

to facilitate the ramming in of loam around them, which effectually held

them in position, and at the same time admitted of their easy removal

when worn out  jointed piece of iron tube, with catch to hold                                 in
               ;

                  a

                              it

                                               a
                                                                                   a

                                                                                          it
place, conveyed the blast to each tuyere.

     Another view, Fig. 42, Plate XIV., of this converter, taken at

right angles to Fig. 40, shows on one side the hopper by which the

molten iron was run into by movable spout direct from the cupola.
This view also shows the tapping-hole open, and the spout which
                                                                                         PLATE XIV.

FIG. 42. SECTION OF CONVERTER, LADLE, AND HYDRAULIC INGOT MOULD
EARLY FORMS OF BESSEMER CONVERTERS                                                         147

conducted the converted metal into a movable shallow pan or receiver,

Asupported by a long handle (not shown).  fire-brick plug attached to

a long handle was fitted to a fire-brick ring or opening in the bottom

of the pan, and prevented any debris from the tapping-hole being carried
into the mould. As this apparatus was intended to exhibit the process,
it was essential that an easy way should be provided for getting away

the ingots and quickly repeating the operation. This casting apparatus,

constructed precisely as represented in Fig. 42, was erected at my Bronze

Manufactory in London, about two months prior to my reading the

I"Cheltenham" paper, in August, 1856, to which shall refer later. The

mould was 10 in. square, and about 3 ft. in length inside ; it was made

in two pieces planed quite parallel, and then permanently bolted together.

The base was a massive square flange, resting on four   dwarf columns,
which stood on the square upper flange of an hydraulic  cylinder; bolts
passed through these dwarf columns, and through the
                                                        square flanges,

thus uniting the ingot mould and hydraulic cylinder. To the latter a ram

or plunger was fitted, having a movable square head, , which accurately
fitted the mould, and formed a movable bottom to it. Both the ram

and the external surface of the mould were kept cool by a water-jacket,
provided with supply and waste pipes. Matters being thus arranged,
the converted metal was allowed to fall in a vertical stream from the

receiver on to the head of the ram. The receiver was then removed,

and as soon as the steel was solidified, water under pressure was turned

on to the hydraulic cylinder, when a beautiful ingot, 10 in. square, and

weighing about 7 cwt., steadily rose and stood on end ready for removal,
the head of the ram rising one or two inches above the top of the mould.

There are, no doubt, many persons still living who witnessed this
combined converting and casting apparatus in successful operation.

       Two 10-in. square ingots, made with this apparatus, were sent to
the Dowlais Iron Works in Wales, and, without hammering, were rolled

                          a
                                                                                      is,
into two flat-footed rails on the 6th September, 1856 ; that twenty-four

days after the reading of the "Cheltenham" paper. They were rolled

under the personal superintendence of Mr. Edward Williams, Past President

of the Iron and Steel Institute. Two pieces of these rails are still

kept at the Institute in  large glass case containing many other
148         HENRY BESSEMER

examples of the early working of my process in London and in

Sheffield.

     Before concluding this brief sketch of the earliest forms of apparatus
Idesigned by me to facilitate or improve the process,
                                                       must revert

to the difficulties inseparable from a fixed converter. In this form of

apparatus much heat is dissipated by the blowing which takes place

during the running in of the metal, and by the continuation of the

blast after the metal is converted, and during the whole time of its

discharge, which is a period of uncertain length. There is also the

Idifficulty of stopping the process if anything goes wrong with the blast
engine, or if a tuyere gives way.       searched diligently for a remedy

for these and other grave defects, which at that time appeared impossible

to remove, until the happy idea occurred to me of mounting the converter

on axes, so as to be able to keep the tuyeres above the metal until

the charge of molten iron was run in, thus permitting the blowing

of the whole charge to be commenced at one and the same time, and

admitting also of the cessation of blowing during the discharge. This

movement of the converter permitted a stoppage of the process to take

place at any time for the removal of a damaged tuyere if necessary, and

afforded great facilities for working.

     The special form of the movable converter was also a matter of great

importance, and there were several requirements to provide for. First,

in order to make the heavy lining secure when turned upside down,
Aa more or less arched shape in all directions was necessary.
                                                               long

oval form seemed best adapted to the purpose, as it allowed some eight

or nine feet in height for the metal to throw itself about in without leaving

the converter. Then the large mouth or outlet pointing to one side was

desirable, so that the sparks could be discharged away from the casting pit.

IAfter much study, arrived at the form shown at A, Fig. 43, Plate XV.,

which is an external elevation ; B is a vertical section showing the position

in which the vessel is retained during the running-in of the metal ; c shows
it during the blow, and D the position it assumes when the converted

metal is poured into a loamed-up casting ladle. This ladle is shown at

E and F : it is provided with a discharge valve at the bottom, so that

it can be moved from mould to mould by closing the valve during such
PLATE XV

                         OO

                                      *H

                            6
EARLY FORMS OP BESSEMER PLANT                               149

movement, and then permit a vertical stream to descend into the mould

perfectly free from any mixture of slags. The advantage of this mode

of filling the moulds will be understood when it is borne in mind that they

are necessarily narrow upright vessels. It is well known that a stream

of molten metal, poured from the lip of a ladle, will describe a parabolic

curve in its descent, tending to strike the further side of the mould before

reaching the bottom. The surface of the cast-iron mould so struck is

instantly melted by the incandescent stream of steel, and the ingot and
the mould thus become united, causing great inconvenience. Nor is it

easy, in pouring the steel from the lip of the open ladle, to prevent some

of the fluid slag floating on its surface from flowing over with the steel

and spoiling the ingot. All of these difficulties are avoided by the ladle

fitted with a bottom valve discharging a vertical stream down the centre

of the mould, the quantity and flow being regulated with great facility

by the hand-lever on the side of the ladle. At G and H, Fig. 43, are

shown the bottom of the converter and the form of tuyeres.

     jjVIany other mechanical contrivances were necessary to perfect the
process, such, for instance, as my patent blast engine, with its noiseless

self-acting valves ; the hydraulic crane carrying the pouring ladle over

every mould in the semi-circular casting pit, and designed to rise and

fall in accordance with the movement of the converter when filling the

ladle for casting ; the direct-acting ingot cranes, which clear the pit and

refill it with another set of moulds rapidly, and with very little manual
labour ; the elevated " valve-stand," from which safe position a single

workman can overlook the whole converting apparatus, and control all

their movements, govern the blast, and work the hydraulic cranes, etc!

The mode of transmitting semi-rotating motion to the converter was
I Ianother important problem which had to solve.
                                                  was of opinion that

ordinary shafting and straps were inapplicable to this fiery monster.

Five or ten tons of fluid metal had to be lifted in one direction, this

load diminishing until the fluid running to the opposite end of the
Ifconverter tended to reverse the driving gear.
                                                 anything went wrong,

or slipped, the converter might swing itself round and discharge the

incandescent metal on to the floor or among the workpeople. These

considerations led me to adopt the hydraulic apparatus now universally
150  HENRY BESSEMER

employed for governing the motions of the converter : for, with this

simple and reliable means, a lad at a safe distance can start or stop it

instantly, can alter its speed and motion, and control the pouring of a

10-ton charge with ease and certainty.

     The first movable converter was erected at my steel works at Sheffield,
Iand was moved by hand-gearing, because at that early date
                                                            had not

                              FIG. 47 INGOT CRANE; BESSEMER PLANT AT SHEFFIELD

invented the hydraulic apparatus just described. This early converting
plant did good work at Sheffield, and was constructed precisely as repre-

sented in Fig. 44, Plate XVI., which shows also the first modification of

the hydraulic casting crane, and its ladle with valve, afterwards elaborated
by me and rendered suitable for casting heavy charges of steel. The
development of this earliest form of plant is shown in Figs. 45 and 46,

Plates XVII. and XVIII., and Fig. 47, annexed. The early experi-

ments at Baxter House were so far successful, as to justify myself
PLATE XVI.
PLATE XVII

                                 o

                                             S5
                                             0H2

                      oJ

                                             Q

                             O
                              Qs

                             OO

                                            H
                                            w
                                           02
PLATE XVIII

                                            w
                                           02
                                          pq
                                     Ob
o

  ERSITY
THE BESSEMER STEEL WORKS, SHEFFIELD  151

and some of my friends in entering into partnership, and erecting in the
town of Sheffield, a steel works which still remains in active operation
under the style of "Henry Bessemer and Company, Limited." These
works were established both for commercial purposes, and also to serve

as a pioneer works or school, where the process was for several years
exhibited to any iron or steel manufacturers who desired to take a license

to work under my patents. All of these were allowed, either personally

or by their managers, to see their own iron converted prior to their

taking a licence.
                          CHAPTER XII

              THE BESSEMER PROCESS

I~T WELL remember how anxiously awaited the blowing of the first
I7-cwt. charge of pig iron.
                             had engaged an ironfounder's furnace-

attendant to manage the cupola and the melting of the charge. When

his metal was nearly all melted, he came to me, and said hurriedly :
I I" Where be going to put the metal, maister ?"
                                       said : " want you to

run it by a gutter into that little furnace," pointing to the converter,
I"from which you have just raked out all the fuel, and then
                                                               shall

blow cold air through it to make it hot." The man looked at me in a

way in which surprise and pity for my ignorance seemed curiously
"Itblended, as he said :
                          will soon be all of a lump." Notwithstanding
Ithis prediction, the metal was run in, and awaited with much impatience

the result. The first element attacked by the atmospheric oxygen is
Ijthe silicon, generally present in pig iron to the extent of
                                                               to 2 per

cent. ; it is the white metallic substance of which flint is the acid silicate.

Its combustion furnishes a great deal of heat ; but it is very undemon-

strative, a few sparks and hot gases only indicating the fact that some-

thing is going quietly on. But after an interval of ten or twelve minutes,

when the carbon contained in grey pig iron to the extent of about 3 per

cent, is seized on by the oxygen, a voluminous white flame is produced,

which rushes out of the openings provided for its escape from the upper

chamber, and brilliantly illuminates the whole space around. This

chamber proved a perfect cure for the rush of slags and metal from
Ithe upper central opening of the first converter.
                                                    watched with some

anxiety for the expected cessation of the flame as the carbon gradually
Itburnt out.
              took place almost suddenly, and thus indicated the entire

decarburisation of the metal. The furnace was then tapped, when out

rushed a limpid stream of incandescent malleable iron, almost too brilliant
                                                              THE BESSEMER PROCESS                                                153

for the eye to rest upon ; it was allowed to flow vertically into the parallel

undivided ingot mould. Then came the question, would the ingot shrink

enough, and the cold iron mould expand enough, to allow the ingot to

be pushed out? An interval of eight or ten minutes was allowed, and

then, on the application of hydraulic force to the ram, the ingot rose

entirely out of the mould, and stood there ready for removal.

        This is all very simple now that it has been accomplished, and

many of my readers may, from their intimate knowledge of this subject,
have felt impatient at its mere recital. But it nevertheless, impossible
                                                                                    is,

                                                                                                                               :
for me to convey to them any adequate idea of what were my feelings

when saw this incandescent mass rise slowly from the mould the first
        I
large prism of cast malleable iron that the eye of man had ever rested
                                 a
on. This was no mere laboratory experiment. In one compact mass
                                                           ;

                                                  a
we had as much metal as could be produced by two puddlers and their

two assistants, working arduously for hours with an expenditure of much

fuel. We had obtained pure, homogeneous 10-in. ingot as the result

of thirty minutes' blowing, wholly unaccompanied by skilled labour or

the employment of fuel while the outcome of the puddlers' labour would

have been ten or dozen impure, shapeless puddle-balls, saturated with

scoria and other impurities, and withal so feebly coherent, as to be

utterly incapable of being rendered, by any known means, as cohesive as

the metal that had risen from the mould. No wonder, then, that                                                                    I

gazed with delight on the first-born of the many thousands of the
square ingots that now come into existence every day. (indeed, at the

date am writing (1897), the world's present production of Bessemer
7
steel,      cast into ingots 10 in. square and 30 in. in length, weighing
   if I
cwt. each, would make over 90,000 such ingots in every working day

of the yearj
          had now incontrovertible evidence of the all-important fact that
I

molten pig iron could, without the employment of any combustible matter,

except that which   it  contained, be raised in the space of half an hour

to temperature previously unknown in the manufacturing arts, while
it

      a

                it
was simultaneously deprived of its carbon and silicon, wholly

without skilled manipulation. What all this meant, what                             a                                             perfect

revolution          threatened in every iron-making district in the world, was
154                         HENRY BESSEMER

Ifully grasped by the mind as gazed motionless on that glowing ingot,

Ithe mere contemplation of which almost overwhelmed me for the time,
notwithstanding that  had for weeks looked forward to that moment

Iwith a full knowledge that it meant an immense success, or a crushing
failure of all my hopes and aspirations.    soon, however, felt a strong
Idesire to test the quality of the metal, but
                                                     had no appliances to

hammer or roll such a formidable mass ; indeed, we had no means at hand

Ieven to move it. But saw that there was one proof possible to which
I could subject the ingot where it stood, and calling for an ordinary
Icarpenter's axe, dealt it three severe blows on the sharp angle of the

                      FIG. 48. MALLEABLE IRON INGOT

prism. The cutting edge of the axe penetrated far into the soft metal,

bulging the piece forward but not separating as shown in the sketch,
                                            it,
Fig. 48. Had  been cast iron those angle-pieces would have been
     I                                          I
scattered all over the place in red-hot fragments, but their standing firm
          it
and undetachable assured me that the metal was malleable.

     Notwithstanding the strong views       entertained of the value of
                               a

                                  I
my invention, desired to obtain the unbiassed opinion of some eminent

engineer, who might possibly take very different view from my own.

I  did not wish to live in  a  fool's paradise, and was most anxious to

know how my ideas would be received by others.       knew Mr. George

Rennie very well by reputation, and       invited him to private view
                                   I                 a
THE CHELTENHAM MEETING OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION                   155

of the process, as carried on in the upright converter. He kindly con-

sented to give me his opinion, came to Baxter House and saw the

process, with the result that he took a very deep interest in it. While
discussing the subject, after the blow, he said : " This is such an important

invention that you ought not to keep the secret another day." "Well,"
I I I"itsaid,
is not yet quite a commercial success, and                   think  had

better perfect it before allowing it to be seen." " Oh," he said, " all

the little details requisite will come naturally to the ironmaster ; your

great principle is an unquestioned success ; no fuel, no manipulation, no

puddle-balls, no piling and welding ; huge masses of any shape made in

a few minutes." This truly great engineer was fairly taken by surprise,

and his enthusiasm was as great and as genuine as it could have been
had he himself been the inventor. All at once he said : " The British
IAssociation meets next week at Cheltenham, and advise you strongly
                                   I am President this year of the
to read a paper on that occasion.
I IMechanical Section.
                       wish had known of this invention earlier. All

our papers are now arranged for the meeting, and yours would be at

the bottom of the long list, and it might simply be taken as read and

would not be heard at all. But so important is this new process to all
Iengineers that, if you will write a paper,
                                             will take upon myself the
Iresponsibility of putting it first on the list."
                                                   could not withstand
Iso handsome an offer from so distinguished a source.
                                                             told him that
I much doubted my ability to write a paper in any way worthy of
Ibeing read before the British Association, as had never written or

read a paper before any learned society. "Do not fear that," he said.

If" you will only put on paper just such a clear and simple account

of your process as you have given verbally to me, you will have nothing

to fear." Soon after this he took his departure, with many words of

I Iencouragement, and was left face to face with a task that had not
bargained for. I, however, at once set to work, and, having completed

Imy paper in a few days, left London on Tuesday, the 12th August,

1856, for Cheltenham.

       On the following morning, while finishing my breakfast at the hotel,

I was sitting next to Mr. Clay, the manager of the Mersey Forge, at
ILiverpool, to whom was well known, when a gentleman who turned

                                                     OF THF

                                             UNIVERSITY
156                HENRY BESSEMER

out to be Mr. Budd, a well-known Welsh ironmaker, canie up to the

breakfast-table, and, seating himself opposite my friend, said to him ;
I" Clay,
          want you to come with me into one of the Sections this
"Imorning, for we shall have some good fun." The reply was :
                                                                            am
I Isorry that am specially engaged this morning, or would have done
so with pleasure." " Oh, you must come, Clay," said Mr. Budd.

"Do you know, that there is actually a fellow come down from

London to read a paper on the manufacture of malleable iron without
fuel? Ha, ha, ha!" " Oh," said Mr. Clay, "that's just where this

Igentleman and are going." " Come along, then," said Mr. Budd, and

we all rose from the table and proceeded towards the rooms occupied

by the Mechanical Section. It was getting rather late, the room was

well filled, and I, dropping the arm of my friend, ascended the raised

platform and was cordially received by the President. Soon after,

when the general bustle had subsided, Mr. George Rennie stood up,

and in a few appropriate words explained that, at the eleventh hour,

he had become acquainted with the fact that a most important discovery

had been made in the manufacture of iron and steel, and he had con-

sidered it desirable that a paper describing the invention should be read

at that meeting. As the papers for that section had already been

arranged, he had ventured on a step which he hoped would be excused

by all those gentlemen who had favoured them by preparing papers

for that occasion. He considered that the paper about to be read

was too important to be put at the tail end of the list, and, as the
only alternative, he had ventured to put it at the head. He had great

pleasure in introducing to the meeting the inventor, Mr. Henry Bessemer,
who would now read his Paper on " The Manufacture of Iron Without

Fuel."
     IThe audience received me very kindly, and
                                                 had the honour of

reading my paper, of which a verbatim copy is here given.

     The manufacture of iron in this country has attained such an important position

that any improvement in this branch of our national industry cannot fail to be a source of
I Igeneral interest, and will,
                   trust, be sufficient excuse for the present brief, and,  fear,

Iimperfect paper.  may mention that for the last two years my attention has been almost
Iexclusively directed to the manufacture of malleable iron and steel, in which, however,

had made but little progress until within the last eight or nine months.  The constant
                                    THE CHELTENHAM PAPER, 1856                                       157

pulling down and rebuilding of furnaces, and the toil of daily experiments with large

charges of iron, had already begun to exhaust my stock of patience ; but the numerous
Iobservations
                       had made during this very unpromising period all tended to confirm an

entirely new view of the subject which, at that time, forced itself upon my attention, viz.,
Ithat could produce a much more intense heat without any furnace or fuel than could be
I Iobtained by either of the modifications
                                                     had used, and consequently that should not only
Iavoid the injurious action of mineral fuel on the iron under operation, but should at the

same time avoid also the expense of fuel. Some preliminary trials were made on from
10 Ib. to 20 Ib. of iron, and although the process was fraught with considerable difficulty, it

exhibited such unmistakable signs of success as to induce me at once to put up an

apparatus capable of converting about 7 cwt. of crude pig iron into malleable iron in thirty

minutes. With such masses of metal to operate on, the difficulties which beset the small
                                                                      IOn this new field of inquiry
laboratory experiments of 10 Ib. entirely disappeared.                                               set

out with the assumption that crude iron contains about 5 per cent, of carbon; that carbon

cannot exist at a white heat in the presence of oxygen without uniting therewith and

producing combustion ; that such combustion would proceed with a rapidity dependent on

the amount of surface of carbon exposed ; and, lastly, that the temperature which the

metal would acquire would be also dependent on the rapidity with which the oxygen and
carbon were made to combine ; and consequently that it was only necessary to bring together

the oxygen and carbon in such a manner that a vast surface should be exposed to their

mutual action, in order to produce a temperature hitherto unattainable in our largest
Ifurnaces. With a view of testing practically this theory,
                                                                      constructed a cylindrical vessel

3 ft. in diameter, and 5 ft. in height, somewhat like an ordinary cupola furnace. The

                                                                      ;

                                                                                                    is

                                                                                                                      a

                                                                                                                                it,
interior of this vessel is lined with firebricks, and at about 2 in. from the bottom of

I  insert five tuyere pipes, the nozzles of which are formed of well-burned fireclay, the

orifice of each tuyere being about                   in. in diameter  they are so put into the brick
                                    it
lining (from the outer side) as to admit of their removal and renewal in                   few minutes
                                               f
when they are worn out. At one side of the vessel, about half-way up from the bottom,

there  is is           hole made for running in the crude metal, and on the opposite side
           a
there                  tap-hole stopped with loam, by means of which the iron  run out at the
               a

end of the process. In practice this converting vessel may be made of any convenient

size, but           I  prefer that  should not hold less than one, or more than five, tons of

fluid iron at each charge. The vessel should be placed so near to the discharge hole

of the blast furnace as to allow the iron to flow along               gutter into it;      ;       small
                                                                      a
blast cylinder         will be required capable of compressing air to aboutis  it        Ib. or 10 Ib.it a
to the square                                                               a
before named,          inch. A communication having been made between                 8
                                                                               and the tuyeres

                       the converting vessel will be in  a  condition to commence work             will,

however, on the occasion of its being used after re-lining with firebricks, be necessary to

make                fire in the interior with        few bucketfuls of coke, so as to dry the brickwork and
I                                              is a
heat up the vessel for the first operation, after which the firea            to be all carefully raked

out at the tapping hole, which                     again to be made good with loam. The vessel will then

be in readiness to commence work, and may be so continued without any use of fuel until

the brick lining in the course of time becomes worn away and                   new lining  is  required.

   have before mentoned that the tuyeres are situated close to the bottom of the vessel              ;
158                       HENRY BESSEMER

the fluid metal will therefore rise some 18 in. or 2 ft. above them.             It is therefore

necessary, in order to prevent the metal from entering the tuyere holes, to turn on the blast

before allowing the fluid crude iron to run into the vessel from the blast furnace. This

having been done, and the fluid iron run in, a rapid boiling-up of the metal will be heard

going on within the vessel, the metal being tossed violently about and dashed from side to

side, shaking the vessel by the force with which it moves. From the throat of the

converting vessel flame will then immediately issue, accompanied by a few bright sparks.
This state of things will continue for about fifteen or twenty minutes, during which time

the oxygen in the atmospheric air combines with the carbon contained in the iron, producing

carbonic acid gas and at the same time evolving a powerful heat. Now as this heat is generated

in the interior of, and is diffused in innumerable fiery bubbles throughout, the whole fluid

mass, the metal absorbs the greater part of  it,  and its temperature becomes immensely increased,

and by the expiration of the fifteen or twenty minutes before-named, that part of the

carbon which appears mechanically mixed and diffused through the crude iron has been

entirely consumed.     The temperature, however,                                 so high that the chemically-combined
                                                                                 is
carbon now begins to separate from the metal, as                                        is
                                                                                                            a

                                                                                                                    it

                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                 at once indicated by an immense

increase in the volume of flame rushing out of the throat of the vessel. The metal in the

vessel now rises several inches above its natural level, and                     light frothy slag makes its

appearance, and  is  thrown out in large foam-like masses. This violent eruption of cinder

generally lasts about five or six minutes, when all further appearance of        ceases,                                                            steady

and powerful flame replacing the shower of sparks and cinder which always accompanies

the boil. The rapid union of carbon and oxygen, which thus takes place, adds still further

to the temperature of the metal, while the diminished quantity of carbon present allows                                                             a

part of the oxygen to combine with the iron, which undergoes combustion and                                                              converted
                                                                                 a
                                                                                                   is

                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                                     is
into an oxide.   At the excessive temperature that the metal has now acquired, the oxide

as soon as formed undergoes fusion, and forms powerful solvent of those earthy bases

that are associated with the iron. The violent ebullition which                  going on mixes most

intimately the scoria and the metal, every part of which                         thus brought in contact with

the fluid oxide, which will thus wash and cleanse the metal most thoroughly from the silica

and other earthy bases which are combined with the crude iron, while the sulphur and

other volatile matters which cling so tenaciously to iron at ordinary temperatures, are driven

off, the sulphur combining with the oxygen and forming sulphurous acid gas. The loss of

weight of crude iron during its conversion into an ingot of malleable iron was found on

mean of four experiments to be 12| per cent., to which will have to be added the loss of
metal in finishing rolls. This will make the entire loss probably not less than 18 per
                                                                                                                                         A
cent., instead of about 28 per cent., which                                      the loss on the present system.
                                                                                                                                                     a
                 it                                                                                                                                 large

                               is,

                           I

                                                                  is
                                                                             is
portion of this metal     however, recoverable by treating with carbonaceous gases the rich

oxides thrown out of the furnace by the boil. These slags are found to contain innumerable
small grains of metallic iron, which are mechanically held in suspension in the slags, and

may be easily recovered.  have before mentioned that after the boil has taken place
                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                a
steady and powerful flame succeeds, which continues without any change for about ten

minutes, when       rapidly falls off. As soon as this diminution of flame       apparent the

workman will know that the process           completed, and that the crude iron has been

converted into pure malleable iron, which he will form into ingots of any suitable size and
                            THE CHELTENHAM PAPER, 1856                                         159

shape, by simply opening the tap-hole of the converting vessel and allowing the fluid malleable

iron to flow into the iron ingot-moulds placed there to receive it. The masses of iron
thus formed will be perfectly free from any admixture of cinder, oxide, or other extraneous
matters, and will be far more pure, and in a more forward state of manufacture, than a pile
formed of ordinary puddle-bars. And thus it will be seen, that by a single process requiring

no manipulation or particular skill, and with only one workman, from three to five tons of

crude iron pass into the condition of several piles of malleable iron in from thirty to thirty-

five minutes, with the expenditure of about one-third part the blast now used in a finery

furnace with an equal charge of iron, and with the consumption of no other fuel than is

contained in the crude iron.  To those who are best acquainted with the nature

of fluid iron, it may be a matter of surprise . that a blast of cold air forced into

melted crude iron is capable of raising its temperature to such a degree as to retain
it in a perfect state of fluidity after it has lost all its carbon, and is in the

Icondition of malleable iron, which in the highest heat of our forges only becomes softened
into a pasty mass. But such is the excessive temperature that      am enabled to arrive at
Iwith a properly-shaped converting vessel and a judicious distribution of the blast, that

am enabled not only to retain the fluidity of the metal, but to create so much surplus heat

as to re-melt the crop-ends, ingot-runners,           and other scrap that is made throughout the

process, and thus bring them without labour or fuel into ingots of a quality equal to the
rest of the charge of new metal. For this purpose a small arched chamber is formed

immediately over the throat of the converting vessel, somewhat like the tunnel-head of the

blast furnace. This chamber has two or more openings on the side of
                                                               a                               and its floor; isI
                                                                     a
made to slope downwards to the throat.       As soon as            charge of fluid malleable iron
                                                                                      is
                                                                                          it,
has been drawn off from the converting vessel the workmen will take the scrap intended to

be worked into the next charge, and proceed to introduce the several pieces into the small

chamber, piling them up around the opening of the throat. When this                          done, he will run

in his charge of crude metal, and again commence the process.      By the time the boil

commences, the bar-ends and other scrap will have acquired white heat, and by the time

is it    over most of them will have been melted and run down into the charge. Any pieces,
     is
however, that remain may then be pushed in by the workman, and by the time the process

       completed they will all be melted, and ultimately combined with the rest of the charge

so that all scrap iron, whether cast or malleable, may thus be used up without any loss or

expense. As an example of the power that iron has of generating heat in this process,

may mention circumstance that occurred to me during my experiments.                            was trying how
         a                                                         I
                         a                                                  I
small    set of tuyeres could be used; but the size chosen proved to be too small, and

after blowing into the metal for one hour and three-quarters,      could not get up heat

enough with them to bring on the boil. The experiment was, therefore, discontinued,

during which time two-thirds of the metal solidified, and the rest was run off. A larger

set of tuyere pipes were then put in, and fresh charge of fluid iron run into the vessel,
                              I
which had the effect of entirely remelting the former charge, and when the whole wasa

tapped out  it              exhibited, as usual, that intense and dazzling brightness peculiar to the

electric light.                                       of iron  it  will be at once apparent that
        To persons conversant with the manufacture
                                                      will have no hard or steely parts, such as are
the ingots of malleable metal which have described
160                                          HENRY BESSEMER

found in puddled iron, requiring a great amount of rolling to blend them with the general mass ;

nor will such ingots require an excess of rolling to expel cinder from the interior of the mass,

since none can exist in the ingot, which is pure and perfectly homogeneous throughout, and
hence requires only as much rolling as is necessary for the development of fibre. It, therefore,

follows that, instead of forming a merchant bar or rail by the union of a number of separate
pieces welded together, it will be far more simple, and less expensive, to make several bars or rails

from a single ingot. Doubtless this would have been done long ago, had not the whole process

been limited by the size of the ball which the puddler could make.

      The facility which the new process affords of making large masses will enable the manu-
facturer to produce bars that, on the old mode of working, it was impossible to obtain ; while, at

the same time, it admits of the use of moffe powerful machinery, whereby a great deal of labour
Iwill be saved, and the process be greatly expedited.
                                                       merely mention this fact in passing, as it
Iis not my intention at the present moment to enter upon any details of the improvements
                                                                                                                                                                                 have
Imade in this department of the manufacture, because the patents which have obtained for them
Iare not yet specified. Before, however, dismissing this branch of the subject, wish to call the

attention of the meeting to some of the peculiarities which distinguish cast steel from all other

forms of iron : namely, the perfect homogeneous character of the metal, the entire absence

of sand-cracks or flaws, and its greater cohesive force and elasticity, as compared with the blister

steel from which it is made qualities which it derives solely from its fusion and formation into

ingots, all of which properties malleable iron acquires in like manner by its fusion and formation
into ingots in the new process. Nor must it be forgotten that no amount of rolling will give to

blister steel (although formed of rolled bars) the same homogeneous character that cast steel
acquires by a mere extension of the ingot to some ten or twelve times its original length.

      One of the most important facts connected with the new system of manufacturing malleable

iron  that all iron so produced will be of that quality known as charcoal iron not that any
    it

         is,
              is
                                                                                          ;

                                                                it
                                                                                            is

                                                                                                                                                                              :
charcoal used in its manufacture, but because the whole of the processes following the smelting

of are conducted entirely without contact with, or the use of, any mineral fuel; the iron

resulting therefrom will, in consequence, be perfectly free from those injurious properties which

that description of fuel never fails to impart to iron that brought under its influence. At the

same time, this system of manufacturing malleable iron offers extraordinary facility for making

large shafts, cranks, and other heavy masses  will be obvious that any weight of metal that can

be founded in ordinary cast iron by the means at present at our disposal may also be founded

in molten malleable iron, and be wrought into the forms and shapes required, provided that we

increase the size and power of our machinery to the extent necessary to deal with such large

masses of metal.  few minutes' reflection will show the great anomaly presented by the scale
                  A

                                          a
on which the consecutive processes of iron-making are at present carried on. The little furnaces

originally used for smelting have assumed colossal proportions, and are made to operate on

200 or 300 tons of materials at time, giving out 10 tons of fluid metal at single run. The
                                                                            aa
manufacturer has thus gone on increasing the size of his smelting furnaces, and adapting to their;
                                                                                                      a
use the blast apparatus of the requisite proportions, and has by this means lessened the cost
of production in every way his large furnaces require great deal less labour to produce given
weight of iron than would have been required to produce with dozen furnaces and in like
                  ;                           a

                                                     it

                                                                         a

manner he diminishes his cost of fuel, blast, and repairs, while he insures uniformity in the

result that never could have been arrived at by the use of multiplicity of small furnaces.
                                                             a
                        THE CHELTENHAM PAPER, 1856                                      161

While the manufacturer has shown himself fully alive to these advantages, he has still been

under the necessity of leaving the succeeding operations to be carried out on a scale wholly at

variance Avith the principles he has found so advantageous in the smelting department.  It is

true that hitherto no better method was known than the puddling process, in which from

400 Ib. to 500 Ib. of iron is all that can be operated upon at a time ; and even this small
quantity is divided into homoeopathic doses of some 70 Ib. or 80 Ib., each of which is moulded

and fashioned by human labour, carefully watched and tended in the furnaces, and removed

therefrom one at a time to be carefully manipulated and squeezed into form. When we consider
the vast extent of the manufacture and the gigantic scale on which the early stages of the
process is conducted, it is astonishing that no effort should have been made to raise the after-

processes somewhat nearer to a level commensurate with the preceding ones, and thus rescue the
trade from the trammels which have so long surrounded it.

    IBefore concluding these remarks, beg to call your attention to an important fact connected

with the new process, which affords peculiar facilities for the manufacture of cast steel. At that

stage of the process immediately following the boil, the whole of the crude iron has passed into
the condition of cast steel of ordinary quality ; by the continuation of the process the steel

so produced gradually loses its small remaining portion of carbon, and passes successively from

hard to soft steel, and from soft steel to steely iron, and eventually to very soft iron ; hence,
at a certain period of the process, any quality of metal may be obtained. There is one in

Iparticular, which, by way of distinction, call semi-steel, being in hardness about midway

between ordinary cast steel and soft malleable iron. This metal possesses the advantage of much

greater tensile strength than soft iron. It is also more elastic, and does not readily take

a permanent set ; while it is much harder, and is not worn or indented so easily as soft iron, at
the same time it is not so brittle or hard to work as ordinary cast steel. These qualities render
it eminently well adapted to purposes where lightness and strength are specially required,

or where there is much wear, as in the case of railway bars, which, from their softness and
lamellar texture, soon become destroyed. The cost of semi-steel will be a fraction less than iron,

because the loss of metal that takes place by oxidation in the converting vessel is about 2| per
cent, less than it is with iron ; but, as it is a little more difficult to roll, its cost per ton may fairly

be considered to be the same as iron. But, as its tensile strength is some 30 or 40 per cent, greater

than bar iron, it follows that for most purposes a much less weight of metal may be used, so that,
taken in that way, the semi-steel will form a much cheaper metal than any with which we are

at present acquainted.

    IIn conclusion, allow me to observe that the facts which have had the honour to bring

before the meeting have not been elicited from mere laboratory experiments, but have been the
result of working on a scale nearly twice as great as is pursued in our largest iron works : the

experimental apparatus doing 7 cwt. in thirty minutes, while the ordinary puddling furnace

makes only 4| cwt. in two hours, which is made into six separate balls, while the ingots or
blooms are smooth, even prisms 10 in. square by 30 in. in length, weighing about equal to ten

ordinary puddle-balls.

IDuring the reading of the paper,  made a chalk sketch of the

converter on the blackboard, and answered several questions put by
162                             HENRY BESSEMER

members present ; at its conclusion, an enthusiastic vote of thanks was

accorded me.

    IOn the table in front of the raised platform had exhibited a few

samples hastily got together for the occasion ; one of them was a flat

firon bar, about 3j in. wide by in. in thickness, which had been rolled

direct from a cast ingot at the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich, then under
the superintendence of Colonel Eardley Wilmot. Another, but smaller,

bar of iron had been rolled, cut up and piled, and again rolled into a long
bar of small section. One of the ends cut off from this bar, showing

the overlapping of some parts of the pile, has fortunately been preserved,

Iand is now in the glass-case of old specimens which presented some
Iyears ago to the Iron and Steel Institute.
                                                also exhibited a large mass

of fractured decarburised iron of silvery whiteness, and some broken

ingots of malleable iron, etc.

     The first person to rise after the reading of the paper was the

late Mr. James Nasmyth, who occupied a seat near me on the platform.

He held up between his thumb and finger a small fragment of wholly
decarburised iron, and enthusiastically exclaimed, " Gentlemen, this is

a true British nugget." Then in glowing terms he referred to the
novelty of the process, the rapid conversion into malleable iron of the
molten iron as it came direct from the blast furnace, the power the

process afforded of dealing with immense masses, the absence of all

skilled labour, and the non - employment of fuel. All this, he said,

pointed to results so vast and so commercially important, that it was
impossible to grasp the full effect it must have both on the iron and

engineering interests of this and of every other country. This paper
had come upon him quite unexpectedly, and the true instinct of the
engineer and man of science rose above all other considerations. He

                                                a

                                                              I it,
"Iforgot how his own personal interests might be affected by and in his
enthusiasm he said  am not going in any way to claim priority
                    :
of thought or action, but cannot forget that few years ago patented,
                      it, a I
                            I
in the puddling process, the use of steam, which was blown through

the bar or 'rabble' with which the puddling operations are carried on.

This might be called first step on the same road but Mr. Bessemer
                                                ;

                                                   I
has gone miles beyond and do not hesitate to say that may go home
                                 THE CHELTENHAM PAPER, 1856.                  163

from this meeting and tear up my now useless patent." Mr. Nasmyth

resumed his seat amid a storm of cheers. Surely all who heard that

noble speech, however much they might have honoured Mr. Nasmyth
as an improver of the puddling process, must have honoured him infinitely

more for thus throwing over his own production, and fearlessly advocating

an invention that so utterly destroyed the value of his own.

    I must not forget to mention that Mr. Budd who may be well

excused for the feeling of ridicule inspired by the extraordinary title
of my paper was the next to rise at the meeting. He said he had

listened with deep interest to the important details of this invention,

and if Mr. Bessemer desired an opportunity of commercially testing

    he should be most happy to afford him every possible facility. His
a a it,
      aironworks were entirely at Mr. Bessemer's disposal, and     a       he liked

                      it itto avail himself of this offer,             if
                                 should not cost him penny. This
                             is  it

                                                            ;
generous proposal made ample amends for the little joke at the breakfast-

table, and was received with hearty cheers after some further discussion,

and the reading of some other papers, the meeting broke up. As was
                                                                           I

about to leave, The Times reporter was introduced to me, and he told

me that he had not paid sufficient attention to t^e first part of my paper,
as the ironmasters present seemed to treat rather as a good joke than
                                                               it

as reality, and, taking his cue from them, he iiad not made so full
   report as he desired. But the enthusiastic way in which the latter

part of my paper was received on all sides, made him desirous of giving
Ifmuch fuller report than he had done. He further said "
                                                                              you
                                                                   I
                                                                              I

                                                                                                              :

                                                                                                                 is
will be kind enough to lend me your paper, will promise you that

every word of shall appear in The Times to-morrow."                was much

pleased with his proposal, and at once handed him my paper, which
duly appeared in extenso on the following morning as promised, and

from The Times report of August 14th, 1856, the copy just given
reproduced. It
                                 impossible to gauge with any degree of accuracy

the effect, social or political, of the hundreds of articles that, from time

to time, have appeared in that influential and widely-circulated journal,

but when we view the publication of this particular paper from a national

point of view,                 simply defies any estimate of the magnitude of the

interests involved.
164                 HENRY BESSEMER

      And yet this high appreciation of my invention by Mr. George
Rennie, and the announcement of it to the whole world through the

columns of The Times, was like a two-edged sword ; for, while on the

one hand it was the direct cause of bringing to my aid the sinews of war,

and assisted me in fighting the great battle of vested interests arrayed

against me, on the other hand it had a fearful disadvantage, which

might have wrecked all. In listening to the kind words of Mr. George
IRennie, too readily allowed myself to bring my invention under public
Inotice.
          should not have done so until all the details of the process
Ihad been worked out, and
                           had made it a great commercial (and not

merely a scientific) fact. My premature disclosure brought down upon

me a wild pack of hungry wolves, fighting with me, and with each other,

for a share of what was to be made by this new discovery. To these

eager adventurers, the conversion of five tons of crude molten iron into

cast steel, in a few minutes, was the realisation of the fabled philoso-
Itpher's stone, that transmuted lead into gold.
                                                 was not a question

with these people of improving my process, but of an endeavour to

imitateit,     or to do something similar by some dodge or other that

Ifwas not covered by my patent.I it,they could simply surround me
                                              \I
and hem me in with possible or impossible claims, must surely, they
                                                  a
thought, pay them to get out of my way. The agent of one of these

so-called inventors told me to my face that he had little bit of land

in the middle of my road, and that there was not room for me to pass

on either side, and that dared not run over him. Many examples
                 I

might be adduced of the wild schemes propounded in this mad race

to appropriate the principle of my invention. One inventor, instead

of forcing air upward through the metal, proposed to suck out of the
                                              it,

                                                 I

                                                                  it
vessel by directly pumping out the fire and showers of sparks, instead

of driving clean, cold, atmospheric air into  as had claimed in my

patent. Another would force down air upon the surface with such

great pressure as to penetrate the metal from the top instead of letting

the air pass naturally upwards. Another would allow the molten iron

to flow down steps, and blow on as fell from step to step. Another
                           a it
                                   it

                                                                              it,
claimed to spread the metal in thin sheet and blow on to                           but not

into as did. Another so-called inventor proposed to let the molten
IMITATIONS OF THE BESSEMER PROCESS  165

iron fall down a deep well in the form of a shower, and collect it at the

bottom as malleable iron, not thinking that his process would simply
make iron shot. Another claimed the exclusive use in my process of that

kind of pig iron that had been most commonly used in Styria for the

last hundred years for making steel, the ore of which was known as

I" stahl stein," or steel ore ; nor was to use manganese either as a metal,

an oxide, or a carburet, although that metal was in daily use in all the

hundreds of steel pots in Sheffield.

    I had used the word " pig-iron " from which, after various processes,
Iall iron and steel then in use was made ; had used the more scientific

term, " carbonate of iron," instead of the accepted trade term, " pig " or

Icrude iron from the blast furnace, should have been safe from one scheme

intended to circumvent me by a play on words. According to this plan,

malleable scrap iron was put into a tall cupola furnace, and during its

descent absorbed so much carbon as to issue therefrom as a white cast-

iron. It was claimed that this was not pig-iron or crude molten iron,

as mentioned in my patent, as it was assumed that white iron so made,

with two per cent, of carbon, might be blown into steel by my process

without my being able to prevent it. These, and all other discreditable

attempts to make use of a colourable imitation of my patent, utterly

and ignominiously failed.

      Within a few days of the publication of my Cheltenham paper,

many eminent engineers and ironmasters from various parts of the

kingdom did me the honour to come up to London, and see the process

carried out at my bronze factory at St. Pancras. Many and strange

were the opinions expressed on these occasions, and many questions

Iwere asked as to the terms on which proposed to allow the trade to

use the process. At that time the steel manufacturer took no interest

Iin the question, and it was left to the ironmaster to secure the huge
advantage of the new discovery.  and my partner, Mr. Longsdon,

had thought the subject well over, and we came to the conclusion that
it would be wise not to have the whole trade opposed to us, but

to give a special interest to one ironmaster in each district, so that his

working would prove an example to other iron works, and his special

interest would induce him at any future time to help to support my
166  HENRY BESSEMER

patents, and not join in an adverse movement of the trade. But, at

first sight, it did not appear easy to do this without parting with a

share of the patents, and thus depriving ourselves of the absolute control

of them. At last we fixed a royalty of ten shillings per ton for making

malleable or wrought iron. To the first applicant for a licence in each

district, we would give a great and permanent advantage over all others,

and allow him to take a license to make a given number of tons per
annum at a royalty of one farthing per ton during the whole term of

the patents, he purchasing this right by paying at once a ten shilling
royalty on the annual quantity agreed upon. He would then have a strong

interest in the maintenance of the patents, and we should have the

advantage of cash in hand with which to fight our battles, if attacked.

These terms having been definitely fixed, were communicated to the

trade, and we continued to show the process to all who wished to see it.
       On August 27th fourteen days after the publication of my

Cheltenham paper in The Times we were visited in the afternoon

by Mr. H. A. Bruce (afterwards Lord Aberdare) and Mr. George
Clark, trustees of the great Dowlais Iron Works. We said that we

were sorry that the experiments  were over for the day, but we should
be happy to show them on the     morrow. " Oh," said these gentlemen,
" We do not care about seeing    the process, for our chemist (Mr. E.

Riley), on reading your paper in The Times, extemporised a converting

furnace in one of the sheds, had the blast conveyed from our blast-

furnace engines, and tried the experiment ; the object of our visit is
to treat for a license. We want to make 70,000 tons of malleable

iron per annum." They were a good deal disconcerted on hearing our
terms, and after much discussion it was arranged that we should dine

with them that evening at the Tavistock Hotel, and further talk the

matter over. This discussion resulted in their agreement to pay us

  10,000 for a license under which they should be at liberty to make
20,000 tons of malleable iron per annum, at a royalty of one farthing

per ton, during the whole duration of the patent. A memorandum to

this effect was drawn up and signed as soon as dinner was over ;

and, when all was thus settled to our mutual satisfaction, our

Itfirst licensees returned to Dowlais.  was exceedingly satisfactory
THE INTRODUCTION OP THE BESSEMER PROCESS  167

to us that these gentlemen should have spontaneously made their own
experiments in private, and satisfied themselves of the practicability
of the process by the aid of their own chemist and workmen ;
and, on the strength of the results so obtained, should have come
up in haste to London to secure a license for their works, lest the
right should pass into other hands. This circumstance gave us great
assurance of the practicability of the invention which, everyone knew,

had at that time never been commercially carried out at any iron
works. Hence the purchase of a licence to work the new process was

simply a mercantile speculation in which the purchaser, who paid 10,000
down, stood to save, during twelve years, 120,000, less 125 paid in
farthings. The inventor, on the other hand, had the advantage of

ready cash to cover the risks he himself had run in expending two years
of labour, in bearing the costs of constructing apparatus, taking out
patents, and making expensive experiments at a time when the whole
scheme was purely ideal, and the risks were much larger to him than

they were to those who now speculated on his success.

       This sale of licenses for the whole term of the patents made the
licensees firm supporters of the patents, while the advantage given to
one manufacturer in each of the great iron districts was not calculated
to injure the trade, as the owner of the privilege would put the extra
profits in his pocket, instead of throwing away his advantage by under-
selling his neighbours. For instance, the Dowlais Iron Company were
making 70,000 tons of rolled iron annually, and would have to pay a
full royalty on 50,000 tons, thus reducing their advantage to less
than three shillings per ton on their annual production of iron, a sum
too small to permit of their underselling the rest of the trade. This

Iwas, then, the scheme by which proposed to force my invention into

commercial use, in face of the gigantic vested interests arrayed against it.
       Soon after the departure of the Dowlais licensees, two gentlemen

from Scotland had a close run as to who should arrive first, and so
claim the advantage of being the pioneer for Scotland. This claim

was eventually settled in favour of Mr. Smith Dixon, of the Govan Iron
Works, Glasgow, who paid 10,000 for a license to make 20,000 tons
of iron annually at a royalty of one farthing per ton. This was followed
168 HENRY BESSEMER

by a license to the Butterley Iron Company, in Derbyshire, to make
A10,000 tons annually on the same terms.
                                                       license was also granted to

make 4000 tons annually to a tin-plate manufacturer in Wales, at one

farthing per ton, on payment of one year's royalty of 2000, thus

making sales of royalties to the amount of 27,000 in less than one

month from the announcement of my invention in The Times. Up

to this period, and long aftera the only persons interested were the
                                         it,
ironmasters, the question not making the smallest impression in the
                                                      a
steel trade. Sheffield wrapped itself in absolute security, and believeda

that       could afford to laugh at the absurd notion of making five
      it
tons of cast steel from pig-iron in twenty or thirty minutes, when
                a
by its own system fourteen or fifteen days and nights were required

to obtain                  40-lb. or 50-lb. crucible of cast steel from pig-iron. So

the Yorkshire town was allowed to stand aside while the more enter-

prising ironmaster gave the invention trial, as far as bar -iron making

was concerned.             At this period the ironmaster would never have

dreamed of changing his trade to that of cast-steel manufacturer,

had such thing been proposed to him.
           a

      Among the many persons who called on me from time to time,

and made proposals for license, none was so energetic and thorough-

going as Mr. Thos. Brown, of the Ebbw Vale Ironworks. He brought

with him an eminent consulting engineer, Mr. Charles May, and with                a

good deal of quiet tact, beat about the bush, trying to gauge my ideas
on the value of my patents. He expatiated on the advantages of turning

an invention to immediate account, and being not only well paid, but

much overpaid, for all costs and labour expended in perfecting the

invention, which, when purchased for cash, might be upset in law without

any loss to the inventor, who had been wise enough to realise when

he had the opportunity. This was the whole gist and meaning of rather
                                                                         Ia

                                                                                              :
long introductory speech, and   distinctly remember the reply which
                           I II
made at the time, and which      have often since repeated.                 said
I

       if

                       is
" Mr. Brown, the expense and labour that may have had over this
                           Ifno measure of its value.  I
invention                                              you andI         were walking arm-

                                                                     it
in-arm along the street, and saw something glittering in the gutter,

and the mere fact of my being the first to discover gave me legal
                                                                         a
                 THE INTRODUCTION OF THE BESSEMER PROCESS                                            169

claim to its possession, and all the labour and trouble taken by me were

simply to lift it out of the gutter with my thumb and finger, and if this

little glittering thing on examination turned out to be the Koh-i-noor,

Ithen the Koh-i-noor being legally my personal property, should want

              I
                              it,
                             if
a million sterling for                                that happened to be its ascertained commercial

value, notwithstanding the fact of its having come so easily into my

possession."     thus quietly gave Mr. Brown to understand that was
                                                                                               is I
in no hurry to sell my birthright for mess of pottage. Mr. Brown
                                                      a                                           a
                                                                        a
then adopted another method, and attempted to dazzle me at once,

so as not to spoil the effect of grand offer by letting                            is itslide out piece-
meal. " Well," he said, " the real object of my visit                                     to make you

an offer to purchase all your patent rights in Great Britain for your
iron and steel inventions and will tell you at once how far am prepared
          II                                          I                            I
                                                        II
                                     :
                                                   ;
to go, and can go no farther.                             am prepared to give you 50,000 cash
                 said " Mr. Brown,
for them."                                                  cannot but feel that this              very

handsome offer indeed, for an invention that has not yet passed from

the scientific to the commercial stage, and                                   conclusive evidence of the
                                                          a

                                                              if

                                                                    it

                                                                            is

                                                                     I
high appreciation of its value by practical ironmaster, and manager

of great Welsh iron-works. But, Sir, my invention successfully passes
it
from the scientific to the commercial stage, as doubt not will do,
     a                                                                             ;
      must inevitably revolutionise the iron industry of the whole world                             ;
                                                                                     it
                                                                                         is it

                                                                                         I
and even the very handsome sum you offer not tithe of its actual
                                                          is,                   a

                                                            it

                                                              iIs
                                                                         is
value. No, Sir, cannot accept your very liberal offer                                          a large
                 I

sum to risk, and whatever risk there                                       who should run it.   have

had dozens of proofs none of which you have seen proofs that make

me certain of the ultimate result, and                                     I  am content to see the

invention through all its trials and vicissitudes, and stand or fall

by the result."

        Mr. Brown was evidently taken aback by my steady refusal to accept

a sum which he no doubt felt, and very reasonably so, would certainly

tempt me. Indeed,       presume he brought Mr. Charles May simply
                 I
to witness the bargain he felt sure of making, the written terms of which
                                          ;
were most probably in his coat pocket. Intense disappointment and

anger quite got the better of him, and for the moment he could not

realise the fact of my refusal he hesitated, muttered something inaudible,
170                     HENRY BESSEMER

took up his hat, and left me very abruptly, saying in an irritated tone,

as he passed out of the room, " I'll make you see the matter differently

yet !" and slammed the door after him. We shall see, in a future Chapter,
what were the steps taken by Mr. Brown to attain this end, and how

far he succeeded.

      In the meantime, small, upright, fixed converting vessels had been

erected at the iron works of Messrs. Galloway at Manchester, at Dowlais

in Wales, at Butterley in Derbyshire, and also at the Govan Iron Works

at Glasgow, and in each case the results of the trials were most

disastrous. The ordinary pig iron used for bar-iron making was found to

contain so much phosphorus as to render it wholly unfit for making iron

by my process. This startling fact came on me suddenly, like a bolt from

the blue ; its effect was absolutely overwhelming. The transition from

what appeared to be a crowning success to one of utter failure well-

nigh paralysed all my energies. Day by day fresh reports of failures

arrived ; the cry was taken up in the press ; every paper had its letters

from correspondents, and its leaders, denouncing the whole scheme as

the dream of a wild enthusiast, such as no sensible man could for a moment
Ihave entertained.
                    well remember one paper, after rating me in pretty
strong terms, spoke of my invention as " a brilliant meteor that had flitted

across the metallurgical horizon for a short space, only to die out in a train

of sparks, and then vanish into total darkness."

    I was present at some of these trials, and saw the utter failure that

resulted with the quality of metal operated upon. It is a curious, and

scarcely credible, fact that not one of the ironmasters who had previously

felt such abundant confidence in the success of the process as to back

their opinions with large sums of money, took any trouble whatever,

or offered any practical or scientific help, towards getting over this

unlooked-for difficulty. They all stood by, mere passive and inert observers

of the fact, not one of them lifting up a finger, or stretching out a
Ihand, to save the wreck. For my own part, stunned as was for the
Imoment by the first blow, never lost faith, or gave up the belief that
                        I had too deep an insight into the principle
all would yet be well.

on which the whole theory was based to doubt of its correctness. By the

Imere accident of living in London, had access only to the pig iron used
THE INTRODUCTION OF THE BESSEMER PROCESS        171

Iby London ironfounders.     had sent to a founder who had occasionally

made me iron castings, and requested him to send me a few tons of pig iron
for experiments. He sent me the grey Blaenavon iron which he was then

Iusing in his business, and accepted it simply as pig iron, without ever

suspecting that pig iron from other sources was so different, and would

give such contrary results.

There was also another most important factor which accounted for

rny partial success in those early days, and which was unobserved

and unknown until a much later period, viz., in all these early experi-
Iments in London,
                   lined the converter with clay or firebrick, and not

with a silicious material such as ganister or sand. When the small

converting vessels were erected for trial by my licensees, they were

lined with silicious materials which prevented the elimination of any

phosphorus from the iron, as was demonstrated later by Thomas and

Gilchrist's well-known dephosphorising process. It was, however, no use

Ifor me to argue the matter in the Press ; all that could say would
I Ibe mere talk, and felt that action was necessary, and not words.

therefore determined to justify myself by the only possible means left
Ito me. After a full and deliberate consideration of the whole case,
Iresolved to continue my researches until
                                           had made my process a
Icommercial, as well as a scientific, success.
                                                was in possession of a

large sum of money, which those ironmasters who believed in my
Iinvention had deliberately invested in the speculation, acting just as
Imyself had done, when had gone to great expense in carrying out
Imy experiments in hope of reaping a large profit. But was not content
to balance matters thus, and cry " quits." At the same time there were
I Iduties which owed to myself and my family.
                                                had spent two years of

valuable professional time, much hard labour, and a great deal of money,

over this invention, and a proportion of the proceeds belonged, in all

fairness, to my family. Having thought thoroughly over the risks and

I Ithe powerful opposition had to fight against, came to the conclusion

that it was my duty to settle the sum of 10,000 on my wife under

Itrustees, so that could not be absolutely ruined in the further pursuit

of my invention, or by litigation in the defence of my patent rights.

IAfter this investment had still left 12,000 to spend in perfecting
172  HENRY BESSEMER

my process, if found necessary. My partner, Mr. Longsdon, who had

implicit faith in me, intimated his resolve to go heart and soul with
me in bearing his share of the cost. Although not strictly in the
chronological order of events, it may here be briefly stated that these

licenses to make malleable iron by my process, for which 27,000 had
been paid, and which turned out unfortunately to be of no commercial
value, in consequence of being superseded by my steel process, were

nevertheless re-purchased by Messrs. Bessemer and Longsdon for the
sum of 32,500, or 5500 more than they were sold for to those
gentlemen who had ventured to speculate on the success of my

invention.

     At this period it became essential for me to know exactly what

were the constituents of pig iron in all its commercial varieties, and what

were the precise proportions in which these substances usually existed.

In order to gain this all-important knowledge, we engaged the services

of Dr. Henry, a well known professor of chemistry, to make complete
and careful analyses of the iron and other materials used in all our
future experiments, as well as of the results obtained in the converter.
The very numerous investigations of this gentleman were supplemented
by the able assistance of Mr. Edward Riley and Dr. Percy, and much

information was also gathered from the publications and previous

researches of Mr. Robert Hunt, of the Record Office of the School

of Mines.

      In this way, continued investigations, accompanied by experimental

trials in the converter, were always adding to our store of facts, but

unfortunately they seemed to bring us scarcely a step nearer to the

Iend we had in view. British pig-iron abounded with this fatal enemy,

phosphorus, and could not dislodge it. Apparatus was put up for the
production of pure hydrogen gas, which was passed through the metal ;
as also were carbonic oxide, carburetted hydrogen, etc. Metallic oxides
and alkaline salts, and many other fluxes, were tried with little or no

Itbeneficial results, and the metal was treated in various other ways.

is needless to follow the continuous string of heartbreaking failures and

disappointments, which were very costly and very laborious. Eventually,

I began to feel that the problem must be attacked from an entirely new
EARLY DIFFICULTIES WITH THE BESSEMER PROCESS                      173

position, viz., the production of pig-iron without phosphorus, a subject

I Iwhich now took in hand. In the meantime became very anxious to

know how far my converting process would be successful if we succeeded

in making, or obtaining, some pig-iron that was wholly or practically

Ifree from phosphorus and sulphur ; and determined to set this one vital

question at rest for ever by obtaining from Sweden some pure charcoal

pig-irons from which such excellent steel was made in Sheffield.

       The very large scale on which my experimental trials were at this
time carried out involved a considerable outlay in various ways, but

there was no slackening of exertion, no cessation of the severe mental
Aand bodily labour.
                     long and weary year was consumed in experi-

ments, and but little real progress was made towards the removal of

the difficulty ; many new paths were struck out, but they led to no

practical results. Several weeks were sometimes necessary to make
and fit up the apparatus required to test a new theory, and it too
often happened that the first hour's trial of the new scheme dashed

all the high expectations that had been formed, and we had again to

retrace our steps. Thus, week after week went on amid a constant

succession of newly-formed hopes and crushing defeats, varied with

occasional evidences of improvement. I, however, worked steadily on.

Six months more of anxious toil glided away, and things were
in very much the same state, except that many thousands of pounds

Ihad been uselessly expended, and was much worn by hard work and

mental anxiety. The large fortune that had seemed almost within my
grasp was now far off; my name as an engineer and inventor had

suffered much by the defeat of my plans. Those who had most feared
the change with which my invention had threatened their long- vested

interests felt perfectly reassured, and could now safely sneer at my

unavailing efforts ; and, what was far worse, my best friends tried, first

by gentle hints, and then by stronger arguments, to make me desist

from a pursuit that all the world had proclaimed to be utterly futile.
IIt was, indeed, a hard struggle ;
                                    had well-nigh learned to distrust

myself, and was fain at times to surrender my own convictions to the

mere opinion of others. Those most near and dear to me grieved over
I Imy obstinate persistence. But what could do?
                                                 had had the most
174                    HENRY BESSEMER

irrefragable evidence of the absolute truth and soundness of the principle

Iupon which my invention was based, and with this knowledge could

not persuade myself to fling away the promise of fame and wealth and

lose entirely the results of years of labour and mental anxiety, and at

the same time time confess myself beaten and defeated. Happily for

me, the end was nigh.
     IThe pure pig-iron, which
                                had ordered from Sweden, arrived

at last, and no time was lost in converting it into pure, soft,
                                                                     It
malleable iron, and also into steel of various degrees of hardness.

was thus incontestably proved that with non - phosphoric pig-iron my

converting process was a perfect success ; and that with pig-iron that

had cost me only 7 per ton, delivered in London, we could, and did,

produce cast steel commercially worth 50 to 60 per ton, by simply

forcing atmospheric air through it for the space of fifteen to twenty

minutes, wholly without the use of manganese or spiegeleisen.

     Thus was the so-called fallacious dream of the enthusiast realised

to its fullest extent, and it was now my turn to triumph over those
Iwho had so confidently predicted my failure.
                                               could see in my

mind's eye the great iron industry of the world crumbling away

under the irresistible force of the facts so recently elicited. In that one

result the sentence had gone forth, and not all the knowledge accumulated

during the last one hundred and fifty years by the thousands whose

ingenuity and skill had helped to build up the mighty fabric of the

British iron trade no, nor the millions that had been invested in

carrying out the existing system of manufacture could reverse that one

great fact, or stop the current that was destined to sweep away the

old system of manufacturing wrought iron, and to establish homogeneous

steel as the material to be in future employed in the construction of

our ships and our guns, our viaducts and our bridges, our railroads

and our locomotive engines, and the thousand-and-one things for which

iron had hitherto been employed.

    IAnd yet, with all this newly-developed power, was paralysed for

the moment in the face of the stolid incredulity of all practical iron and

steel manufacturers an incredulity which stood like the wall of a

Ifortress, barring my way to the fruits of the victory had already won.
             THE INTRODUCTION OF BESSEMER STEEL                                           175

I announced the fact of my complete success to the world, and held in

my hands the most undeniable proofs of the truth of my assertion, but

no one would now believe it. They remembered, but too well, the great

expectations that were excited two years previously by the first announce-

ment of my invention at Cheltenham, and were not again to be

disturbed by the cry of "Wolf!" Thus it happened that, after the
I Ihard battle had fought for so many years,
                                              found myself as far as

ever from the fruits of my labour, for not a single ironmaster or steel

manufacturer in Great Britain could be induced to adopt the process.

Anxious to possess still further practical proofs of the value of my
Iinvention,
             made, at my experimental works at St. Pancras, a few

hundredweights of steel ingots of all the special qualities required in
an engineer's workshop. This steel we took to Sheffield, where it was

tilted, by an experienced steel-maker, into bars of precisely the same

external appearance as the ordinary steel of commerce.                  Either I, or

my partner, Mr. Longsdon, was present the whole time occupied in

a                                                                                         while still
                                                                                      a

                                                                                     it,
the operation, and as each bar was finished we stamped

hot, with special punch which we kept in our pockets for the purpose,

thus rendering the accidental or intentional change of bar impossible.

These bars we took to the works of my friends, Messrs. Galloway,

the well-known engineers, of Manchester, where they were given out

to the workmen and employed by them for all the purposes for which

steel had previously been used in their extensive business. So identical

in all essential qualities was this steel with that usually employed that,

during two months' trial of  it,
                                                                     a
                                  the workmen had not the slightest idea

or suspicion that they were using steel made by new process. They

were accustomed to use steel of the best quality, costing 60 per ton,

and they had no doubt whatever that they were still doing so.

None of the large steel manufacturers at Sheffield would adopt

my process, even under the very favourable conditions which offered
                                                                        I
                                                                               I
as regards licenses, viz.,  if 2  per ton. Each one required an absolute

monopoly of my invention he touched at all. This fully made up
                                  it

my mind to resist, by adopting the only means open to me namely,
the establishment of steel works of my own in the midst of the
             a

great steel industry of Sheffield. My purpose was not to work my
176            HENRY BESSEMER

process as a monopoly, but simply to force the trade to adopt it by

underselling them in their own market, which the extremely low cost of

production would enable me to do, while still retaining a very high

rate of profit on all that was produced. My partner, Mr. Longsdon,

Iand my brother-in-law, Mr. William Allen, to whom mentioned this

project, were quite willing to join me in it as a purely manufacturing

speculation, apart from any interest in my patents, which, however, the

firm were allowed to use free of royalty, in consideration of their

permitting the works to be inspected and the process fully explained to

all intending licensees.

     It will be remembered that Messrs. Galloway, of Manchester, were

the first persons who took a license to manufacture malleable iron by

my converting process, having purchased the sole right to manufacture

it in Manchester and ten miles round, prior to the reading of my paper

at Cheltenham. One of the original upright fixed converters had been

erected at their engineering works, and having, like all the rest, failed

to produce satisfactory results with ordinary phosphoric pig-iron, it had

been at once abandoned. But when the proofs of our success in steel

making, two years later, were afforded to Messrs. Galloway by the actual

use in their own workshop of steel tools of all sorts made by us in
London, it was mutually agreed that they should rescind their original

license for Manchester and join us as equal partners in the Sheffield
Iworks, which
               and Mr. Longsdon had determined to erect, with

Mr. William Allen as the resident managing partner.

     Mr. Longsdon, with his intimate knowledge of architecture, soon

designed our model works a neat white brick range of buildings with

sandstone dressings, and a tall chimney as the usual landmark. Thus

were established the first Bessemer Steel Works, and in less than twelve

months from its commencement, we had built a dozen melting furnaces
and erected the steam and tilt hammers, blast furnaces, and converting

apparatus, suitable for carrying on the new manufacture. This we com-

menced by bringing steel" into the market at 10 to 15 per ton below the

quotations of other manufacturers. In thus opposing the old-established

steel trade in its very midst, we ran the risk of " rattening," or a bottle

of gunpowder in the furnace flues, by which the workmen of Sheffield
                 THE BESSEMER PROCESS                              177

had earned for themselves an unenviable notoriety, and we had reason

to consider ourselves fortunate that we escaped. We were doubtless

indebted for this immunity to the entire and absolute disbelief, both
Itof masters and men, in our power to compete with them.
                                                                   was

this obstinate refusal to see and judge for themselves which lost the

manufacturers of Sheffield their great monopoly of the steel trade ; for,

although the steel makers refused to see, it was abundantly clear to

the ironmasters that profits could be realised by working the new

process ; hence it was speedily adopted in all the great iron districts

of the country.

Some idea may be formed of the importance of the manufacture, and

of how much the people of Sheffield lost by their prejudice and incredulity,

Iwhen state the simple fact that, on the expiration of the fourteen

years' term of partnership of our Sheffield firm, the works, which had

been greatly increased from time to time, entirely out of revenue, were

sold by private contract for exactly twenty-four times the amount of the

whole subscribed capital of the firm, notwithstanding that we had divided

in profits during the partnership a sum equal to fifty-seven times the gross

capital. So that, by the mere commercial working of the process, apart

from the patent, each of the five partners retired from the Sheffield works

after fourteen years, having made eighty-one times the amount of his

subscribed capital, or an average of nearly cent, per cent, every two

months a result probably unprecedentad in the annals of commerce.

       Remembering the keen interest which the Emperor of the French

Ihad taken in my early experiments with rifled projectiles, naturally made
Ihim acquainted with the success had achieved ; while, at the same time,
I also kept our own Government fully informed. At that period the

Foundry and Ordnance Department at Woolwich was ably presided over
by Colonel Eardley Wilmot, R.A., who had taken the deepest interest

in the progress of my invention from its earliest date.

                                                         AA
                   CHAPTER XIII

BESSEMER STEEL AND COLONEL EARDLEY WILMOT

TnvURING the time that the works at Sheffield were being erected,

        I was very busy endeavouring to discover all the non-

phosphoric iron ores in this country, and, after many analyses, the

chief were found to be the hematites of Lancashire and Cumberland,

and the Forest of Dean, and some spathose ores at Weardale and at

Dartmoor. The hematite pig irons were, however, fatally contaminated

with phosphorus, although some of these rich ores were absolutely free
                                  I found, on repeated analyses, that the
from this deleterious element.

mines of the Workington Iron Company yielded a very pure ore, but
Ithat their pig-iron contained much phosphorus. Here, at least, had
Ia field to work upon ; and
                                wrote to the Secretary of the Company,
Iasking him to name a day when could go down and meet the Directors.
IAn early date was fixed, and, at our interview told the Directors that

I, and many others, would become large buyers if they could make a

Ipig-iron as free from phosphorus as the hematite ore was before smelting.

  further said, that if they had no secrets, and would show me everything
Ithey were doing,
                   did not despair of finding out the source of con-

tamination, and of pointing out a way of producing pure pig-iron that

would command a ready sale wherever my process was carried on. The

Board expressed their willingness to afford me every facility, and sent

for their furnace-manager, who was instructed to take me over the works,

Ianswer all my questions, and furnish me with samples for analysis of all
the raw materials they employed.  went round with him, and collected

small samples for analysis of the coke obtained from different sources,
the limestones from all the pits they worked, and samples of the hard

and soft hematite ore from each of their different mines. The limestones
Icontained but few shells, and
                                  was quite at a loss to imagine where

the phosphorus came from. As we were returning to the offices near
                           BESSEMER PIG                179

one of the railway sidings, we came upon a large heap of slags and cinder.
I"What is that?" asked the manager. " Oh, that is what we flux the
"Itfurnace with," he said. "Yes, but what is it?"
                                                       is a furnace slag,
rich in iron," he replied. " We send into Staffordshire lots of our fine ore

for fettling the puddling furnaces, and after they have done with it they
send it back to us ; in fact, we could not get a fluid cinder in our blast

Ifurnaces without it." " All right !" said, " the cat is out of the bag now,
Iand the mystery is all over." And so found that the Staffordshire iron-

master, after purifying his phosphoric iron in the puddling furnace, and

transferring its impurities to the hematite ore, sent the ore back again

to Cumberland, and succeeded in spoiling the purest iron ore which this

I Icountry possessed.                                  now felt certain that
           was in high spirits at this discovery, for

we should soon have thousands of tons of British iron suitable for the

production of steel by my process.
IBefore leaving the works,
                                    arranged to take all these samples

of raw material to London, and get my own chemist to make a careful

analysis. Then, choosing the fittest materials in each case, furnace charges

could be formulated by our chemist, Professor Henry, of course omitting

the phosphoric slag, and substituting for it the dark shale of the coal

measures, so as to give a sufficiently fluid cinder. These theoretical furnace

charges were afterwards sent to the Workington Company, with the

following offer on our part, viz., the company were to use these charges

for at least twelve hours after they believed that all the old materials

had passed out of the blast furnace, so as to be quite sure that the

old impure matters had been entirely got rid of, and then they were

Ito run me 100 tons of this new pig-iron, which undertook to purchase,

whatever its quality might be. They were instructed to make a large

letter B on the mould pattern used for casting, so as to distinguish this

pig from all others. This plan of marking was duly carried out, and

I got my 100 tons of " Bessemer Pig," the first that ever was made.

This brand of iron  is,  up to the present day, quoted in all price lists,

and in all the iron markets of the world, and has placed at our disposal

millions of tons of high-class iron, such as had never before been

produced in this country.
180                  HENRY BESSEMER

      The new steel works of Henry Bessemer and Company, at Sheffield,

had been erected some months, and the first converter mounted on axes

was put to work in 1858. At first our attention was chiefly directed

to the manufacture of high-class tool steel, for which our quotation was

 42 per ton, as against 50 or 60 by other makers. All this tool steel

was made from Swedish charcoal pig-iron, costing only about 3 per ton
more than English brands. The excellence of the steel so made is best

proved by the fact that during the two years that this branch of the

steel trade was carried on by us at Sheffield, we supplied such firms

as Sir Joseph Whitworth, Messrs. Beyer, Peacock and Company, Messrs.
Sharp, Stewart and Company, Sir William Fairbairn and Company,

Messrs. Hicks, of Bolton, Messrs. Platt Bros., of Oldham, etc. A

moment's consideration will show that such firms as those mentioned

would never have continued to use this steel if it had been in the slightest
degree inferior to the best steel made by the old process. By way

of commercial proof, let us suppose that our price was 14 per ton

below that of the trade. This would save precisely five farthings on

the cost of a tool weighing 1 Ib. Now if such a tool during its

whole life occupied a workman (whose wages were sevenpence an hour)

only twelve minutes more in extra sharpening on the grindstone, the

advantage of 14 per ton would have been wholly lost. Is
                     if                                  would

                                  I
                                            iIt,
ask, probable that the eminent engineering firms quoted would have
continued to use this Bessemer tool steel the smallest shade of inferiority

had manifested itself? Our tool steel was also used at the Arsenal,

Woolwich, at the time when Colonel Eardley Wilmot, R.A., was Super-

intendent of the Royal Gun Factories, prior to the advent of Sir

William Armstrong, and in confirmation of this fact may quote the

following passage from the Proceedings of the Institution of Civil

Engineers, according to which, on May 24th, 1859, Colonel Wilmot,

in the course of  a  speech in reference to Bessemer Iron and Steel,

said  :

       As regards the steel, he had been using for turning the outsides of heavy guns
cutting off large shavings several inches in length, and he has found none other superior to
although much more costly.
                     it
                                                    a

                                                                                                      it,
Indeed, Colonel Wilmot exhibited to the meeting box full of exceptionally
                         BESSEMER STEEL WORKS AT SHEFFIELD                           181

large and heavy shavings taken off by this steel, in the ordinary course

of turning in the lathe.

        We had now a large converting vessel erected at Sheffield, and

commenced operations on an extended scale. We were very anxious

to see how one of these large ingots would behave under the steam

hammer, but a delay had unfortunately taken place in the erection of
Iour own large hammer.
                               In my impatience to see the result,

waited only until the first heavy ingot ever cast at the works had cooled

down sufficiently to prevent it setting fire to the truck on which it
Iwas carried, before sent it by rail to Messrs. Galloway, at Manchester,
Iwho had a large steam hammer in daily use.
                                                            followed by train, and

saw the ingot formed into a gun of the old-fashioned type. This gun

it is,  in many respects,      unique specimen of pure iron, and                     now
                             a                                                is
                                                         6
                                                                                               ;
      in the possession of the Iron and Steel Institute. The ingot was made

      of Swedish charcoal pig, costing                      10s. per ton delivered in Sheffield

        was converted into pure soft iron, and no spiegeleisen or manganese

      in any form was employed in its production. This was not only the

      first large ingot made at our works at Sheffield, but  it  was the first

      piece of ordnance ever made in one piece of malleable iron, without
      weld or joint. It
                         is  no less remarkable for its extreme purity. The

      metal of this gun had originally been most carefully analysed, and
      many years later, during a discussion at one of the Iron and Steel

      Institute meetings in 1879, mention was made of its purity, a state-
                                                            It was said that
      ment that was received with incredulity.                                it it  was

      so near absolute iron that there must have been some mistake in the

      analysis whereupon was proposed by the President to have again
        ;

                           it

      analysed.

            Mr. Edward Riley, the well-known analyst of iron and steel, was
      entrusted with this interesting investigation, and for this purpose the
      gun was removed from the offices of the Institute to my laboratory
      and workshops at Denmark Hill, and there put into the lathe. Shavings
      off the muzzle of the gun were received on a sheet of clean white
      paper held by Mr. Riley under the cutting tool, and were afterwards

      taken by him to his own laboratory in Finsbury Square for careful

      analysis. This occurred in the early part of March, 1879. A copy
182                               HENRY BESSEMER

of the analysis, which fully confirmed that originally made, is given

below.

                                  Laboratory and Assay Offices,

EDWD. RILEY.                      2, City Road (14A, Finsbury Square),
                                                                                    London, E.G.

     DEAR SIR,          ......... March 22nd, 1879.

                    IHerewith  beg to forward you the results of my analysis of the sample

of steel turned from a small steel gun in my presence on Monday last.

     The sample gave :

              Carbon           . . . . .014

              Silicium                            .004

              Sulphur                             .052

              Phosphorus                          .047                 .046

              Iron                                99.893 99.787

              Manganese                           nil.

              Copper           .  minute trace

                                                  100.010

                                        Believe me to remain,
                                                Yours very faithfully,
                                                         EDWD. RILEY, F.C.S.

                                  Metallurgist, Analytical and Consulting Chemist.

     Henry Bessemer, Esq.

     It is very generally known that of all the Swedish bar-irons, hoop
L Dannemora bar-iron is the purest brand to be met with in commerce.
It is these iron bars, which sell for 30 per ton and upwards, that

are used wholly, or in part, in making the highest class of crucible
steel produced in Sheffield. As an example of its purity, Dr. Percy,
in his well-known work on Metallurgy, gives the analysis of what he
justly calls "this world-renowned iron," and in order that there should

Ibe no possible mistake on this point, print below a portion of page 736

of the volume devoted to iron and steel.

                                                                              SWEDEN.

      An examination of the specimens of Bessemer steel from Sweden in the Exposition
shows us that the metal there produced is of a far superior character to that made in
England, and naturally leads to inquiry as to the cause of the difference, and whether we
may hope to attain the same success in the United States. First we observe coils of wire
of all sizes, down to the very finest, such as No. 47, or even smaller. This they have not
                        SWEDISH IRON                                         183

been able regularly to produce in England. In the next place we notice a good display of

fine cutlery, and the writer is informed by a competent authority that this metal answers

so well for this purpose that it is now used almost to the exclusion of any other. This

statement is corroborated by the fact that in the miscellaneous classes of the Swedish depart-

ment, where cutlery occurs not as an exhibition of steel, but merely as a display of

workmanship by other parties in the same manner as other articles of merchandise, cases

of razors are exhibited with the mark of the kind of steel of which they are made stamped
or etched upon them as usual, and these are all "Bessemer," but from a variety of different
works, viz., Hogbo, Carsdal, Osterby, and Soderfors. The ore used in Sweden for producing
iron for the Bessemer process is exclusively magnetic, and of a very pure quality. An
analysis of a mixture of those used for the iron employed at the Fagersta works before

roasting gives the following composition :
Carb. acid
                                                                       8.00
...............Silicium                                              17.35
                                             . 0.95
Alumina
Lime                                            6.50

.4.35Magnesia     .  .  .                 .  .

.3.35Protoxide of manganese . . . .

Magnetic oxide       . . . . . 32.15

Peroxide of iron                                27.40

      .03Phosphoric acid                        100.05

Graphite             .  .                 .  .

...........Silicium
      All the pig made from this mixture of ores the exhibitors state will give a steel without

the use of spiegeleisen, which is not at all red short.
       The analysis of gray iron from the same works, used for the Bessemer process, is

given as follows :
.Manganese
Carbon combined      . . . . .1.012

                                                3.527
                                                0.854

                                                1.919

Phosphorus                                      0.031

Sulphur                                         0.010

LFrom these examples, 2, 3, and 4 of hoop       bar-iron, we have for

No. 2, pure iron 99.863 per cent. ; for No. 3, pure iron 99.220 ; and for

No. 4, pure iron 98.605 ; giving a mean of 99.220 of pure iron in these

three samples of hoop L.
      Now, by Mr. Riley's analysis, we have only two testings of the

Bessemer malleable iron gun, the first giving 99.893 per cent, of pure

iron, and the second one 99.787, a mean of 99.840 per cent, of pure

iron, or 00.611 more than Dannemora bar.
184  HENRY BESSEMER

     Since the Dannemora iron mines achieved their deservedly high

reputation, many new mines had come into operation in Sweden, at

which pig-iron only was made, and it was the products of these mines

Ithat had analysed for my special use, and thus discovered that some
Iof them were producing pig-iron of extreme purity. Thus was enabled

to make malleable iron or steel of the highest quality from Swedish

pig, costing, delivered in Sheffield, 6 10s. to 7 per ton, and yielding,

from my converter, ingots of cast steel of great purity at a cost of

less than 10 per ton, fully equal to that made from Swedish bar

costing 30 per ton, such bar being only the raw material for the old

crucible process of making steel.

     From a consideration of these facts, it will be readily understood

how we could produce cheap high-class tool steel, while for general

uses we had obtained native pig-iron "Bessemer pig" smelted with

coke, admirably adapted for the production of steel for all structural

purposes, for which it was in every way superior to the highest brands

of iron previously known in this country.

    I had no sooner arrived at these results on a commercial scale than
I again put myself in communication with Colonel Eardley Wilmot,

the Superintendent of the Royal Gun Factory at Woolwich Arsenal,
Ifor had never lost sight of the original object of my research
Ita metal suitable for the construction of ordnance.
                                                      was, in fact, this
Iidea that had led, step by step, to the discovery of my process.

was the more pleased to communicate these facts without delay to the

authorities at Woolwich, because, in the person of Colonel Eardley

IWilmot, found a zealous officer, who took the deepest interest in any

improved materials or processes that could be advantageously employed

in the founding or construction of ordnance. He, fortunately, had no

pet schemes of his own to promote, and was neither a patentee nor a

private manufacturer ; he was, in fact, an officer whose sole aim and
ambition was to arrive at the highest perfection and development of

the department over which he so ably presided, wholly without reference

to the sources from which such improvements were derived.

    IIt was now many months since had reported myself at Woolwich,

but on my communicating the fact that we were commercially successful
           BESSEMER STEEL AND COLONEL WILMOT                185

in producing both pure and malleable iron in masses, and steel of any

degree of carburisation that might be desired, at a price far below that

of the best bar iron, and in masses of almost any assignable weight,

the information immediately riveted Colonel Wilmot's attention. His

old hopes of having a superior metal for guns seemed suddenly to revive,
Iand he became deeply interested in all that
                                              had to communicate.
IAfter a very protracted discussion, left with a promise to send him

several different qualities of our steel for analysis, testing for tensile

strength, etc.
       These investigations at Woolwich lasted over a period of several

Imonths, during which time frequently called to see Colonel Wilmot, and

sometimes to see Professor (afterwards Sir Frederick) Abel,* who was at
the head of the chemical laboratory, where a great number of analyses

were, from time to time, made and communicated to me. Many interesting
tests were also made by drawing down a portion of an ingot first, to

two-tenths in additional length, and then to four-tenths, and so on.

Some portions were elongated to five times their original length, each

piece being tested to show the true amount of increased strength given

to it by additional forging and elongation of the bar. In fact, Colonel

Wilmot left no stone unturned to arrive at the actual facts of the case, and

a full knowledge of the strength and properties of the new material.
ISome of the tests above mentioned have been lost, but
                                                        have still

twenty-nine well-authenticated records showing the extreme tenacity
Iand toughness of the metal. On one occasion
                                                 happened to remark

to Colonel Wilmot that such was the extraordinary ductility of our

Icast malleable iron and mild cast steel, that had no doubt a thick gun-

tube might be collapsed, and hammered up quite flat, under the steam-
hammer, whilst perfectly cold, without showing any tendency to crack
or burst open. Colonel Wilmot observed that, notwithstanding the
numerous proofs he had had of its marvellous tenacity, he thought that

no material could possibly undergo such a severe ordeal without fracture.
I" Well,"  said, " it will be an interesting experiment, even if it fails,
I Iand will put it to the test if you wish it."
                                                 accordingly had an

           * Died, September 6th, 1902.

                                                        BB
186                     HENRY BESSEMER

ingot of mild steel, and one of wholly decarburised iron, forged until

they were extended to about double their original length. Two portions
of each were cut off, turned, and bored in the lathe, and then beautifully

finished both inside and out, the length and diameter of each cylinder

Jbeing 6 in. and the thickness of metal in. These pieces of gun-tube were

Ibored to 4|- in., in diameter a size suitable for a 40-pounder gun.

personally took these four tubes down to Woolwich, and was present with

Colonel Wilmot when they were placed in succession (while cold) under

the large steam hammer, and crushed flat, each tube being quite closed

up. In no case was there the slightest indication of either tearing or

rupture at any part of their surfaces. Colonel Wilmot was greatly

astonished, and so was the experienced foreman of the hammer shop

I Iwho conducted the experiment, and who expressed his admiration with
a forcible adjective, which need not repeat.  gave one steel and one

pure iron cylinder to Colonel Wilmot, and retained the other two, which

were exhibited in the International Exhibition of 1862.

     After personally inspecting the crushing of the two pure iron cylinders

and the two mild steel ones, Colonel Wilmot was so convinced of the

immense importance to the State of Bessemer mild steel as a material

for guns, that he said he would no longer delay taking active steps

for its manufacture at Woolwich. On his asking me if he might go

over our Sheffield Works, and see for himself how everything was
I Adone,
     at once assented.  day was fixed, and Colonel Wilmot and
I went down together to Sheffield, where he passed the greater part

of the following day in making himself fully acquainted with all the

details of what was in reality a very simple process, and with which
                                           I cannot omit to mention a
he expressed himself perfectly satisfied.

very curious and somewhat significant fact, which more than justified

Colonel Wilmot in the strong opinion he had formed of the value

and practicability of the process. The well-known and extensive steel

works of Sir John Brown and Co. are only separated by a wall from

the Bessemer Steel Works at Sheffield, but neither Sir J. Brown, nor

any of his people, had taken the smallest apparent interest in what

we were doing, and, indeed, like the rest of the good people at Sheffield,

had a profound disbelief in the production of steel direct from pig-iron
BESSEMER STEEL MAKING AT SHEFFIELD  187

 by any conceivable process. Now Colonel Wilmot, during this visit
 to Sheffield, had occasion to see Sir John Brown on other business, and,

 so ardent a convert had he become, that he succeeded in persuading
 Sir John Brown and his partner Mr. Ellis, to go with him next door
 and see the Bessemer process in operation. They came, and had but
 a short time to wait before the cupola furnace was tapped, and a charge
 of molten pig-iron was run by a spout directly into the empty converter.
 They seemed much interested in watching the great change which took
 place in the flame and sparks emitted as the process proceeded ; but
 when the eruption of cinder, and the accompanying huge body of flame,

 were seen to issue from the converter, they were greatly astonished. In

 about twenty minutes the flame had dropped, the mouth of the huge
vessel was gradually lowered, and a torrent of incandescent metal was
poured into the casting ladle. Up to this moment they merely expressed
 surprise at the volume of flame, the brightness of the fight, and the
entire novelty of the process. But no sooner did they see the incandescent
stream issue from the mouth of the converter, than their practised eyes
in an instant recognised it to be fluid steel, and they themselves were
 " converted," never to fall back again into a state of unbelief. They
stayed to witness the casting operation, and accepted one of the hot
ingots for testing at their own works, the result being that Sir John
Brown and Company became the first licensees in Sheffield under my

steel patents.

       The moral to be drawn from these facts is simply this ; that
the state of the manufacture was at that period such, that after once

witnessing the process and testing the material at their own works,
these eminently practical steel-makers resolved, at the risk of entirely

revolutionising their old-established business, to put up plant and become

IBessemer Steel manufacturers. Now, would ask any impartial person

if this fact did not justify, and more than justify, Colonel Wilmot in

the conclusion to which he had arrived independently that this cheap
and rapid production of steel ought at once to be utilised in the manu-
facture of guns for the British Government.*

       * On the occasion of my reading a Paper at the Institution of Civil Engineers, on
The Manufacture of Iron and Steel, in May, 1859, Colonel Wilmot said, in reference to a
188                     HENKT BESSEMER

     IAfter my return to London,              waited on Colonel Wilmot by

appointment, went with him to inspect the gun-foundry at the Arsenal,

and chose a suitable spot for the erection of the Bessemer Steel plant.

It was finally arranged by us to remove one of the three large reverberatory

furnaces that had been used to melt pig-iron for casting guns, and in

its place put up a pair of converters, utilising the other two furnaces
Ifor melting the Bessemer pig.
                                took accurate measure of the foundry

and its contents, so as to enable me, at my own offices, to arrange all

the details of a converting plant to be erected in the old gun-foundry

and to make an estimate of the cost.

    IWhen this was done, handed to Colonel Wilmot an approximate

estimate of 6,000, for erecting a steam-engine, boilers, and converting

plant of sufficient size to produce 100 tons of gun steel per day, and

I guaranteed that the cost of the steel poured into their own moulds

should not exceed 6 10s. per ton, when hematite pig-iron was used,

or 10 per ton when Swedish charcoal pig-iron was employed : my

remuneration being a royalty of 2 per ton on all metal converted,

the same as charged to all private manufacturers.

very silly observation of one of the members : "As regards the difficulty of the process, as

well as the results of  he thought the best thing for member of practical society to
                        it,

                                                                      :

                                                           it

                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                    a
do was to follow his example, and go and see  for himself; nothing could be more simple

or more perfectly under control." (Excerpt Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of

Civil Engineers.)
            CHAPTER XIV

   THE BESSEMER PROCESS AND THE WAR OFFICE

WAS kept for some time in daily expectation of a reply from the

       War Office accepting my tender, but no letter arrived, and at last

I ventured on seeking an interview with the Minister of War, Mr.
ISidney Herbert. He appeared to know very little on the subject.

   took, however, the opportunity of explaining to him, in as clear and

concise a manner as possible, the great national interests hanging on his
Idecision.
            told him that steel, the strongest of all known conditions

of the metal iron, had hitherto been so costly as to considerably restrict

its use ; that by my process we produced it at a cost not exceeding

6 or 7 per ton, instead of 50 or 60, its ordinary market value ;

that instead of being made in small crucibles of 40 Ib. or 50 Ib. only
in weight, we could make five tons of it in the short space of twenty
minutes in a single operation ; and, what was still more important, instead
of being the hard and brittle material, such as is required to make cutting

implements, the new steel possessed a toughness and tenacity far exceeding
Ithe very finest qualities of wrought iron known in commerce.
                                                               also

endeavoured to impress on him the fact that Colonel Eardley Wilmot

had seen the process in operation, had amply tested and had in his officeI
                                                          it,
at Woolwich pieces of gun-tubes that had been put to such unheard-of
proofs as to afford to the meanest capacity overwhelming evidence of

its fitness for the construction of ordnance.  also told him that in the

chemical laboratory numerous analyses had been made by their own
chemist that in their rolling mill, bars had been rolled, and in their
;

testing-house an immense number of most satisfactory tests had been

made as to the tenacity and toughness.         said that the people at the
                                        I
                                           I
head of each of these departments at Woolwich could adduce abundance

of corroborative evidence of every statement had made.
190          HENRY BESSEMER

     Mr. Sidney Herbert listened to all this, and remarked that it was

a technical question which he was not prepared to deal with at that

moment ; but said that he would give the whole matter his most earnest

Iattention, and that might call on him that day week to hear his reply.
    I waited impatiently for this second interview, in full confidence that

Colonel Wilmot, and other heads of the chemical and testing departments,

would have been called on to corroborate, or disprove, the statements

I had made, and would have given him such proofs in favour of mild

Bessemer steel as would at once have secured me the contract to erect at

Woolwich the converting apparatus which Colonel Wilmot was so anxious
to see in practical operation there. But Mr. Herbert did not examine
or consult Colonel Wilmot, who could have told him all about it. He

made no enquiries at the testing or other departments at Woolwich, nor

did he take the trouble to look at the flattened gun-tubes, and other

proofs, which would have irresistibly convinced any man of ordinary

capacity and intelligence that this material was, at least, well worthy

of being put to a practical proof in the interests of the State, by the
immediate construction of a gun. He informed me that he had consulted
Sir William Armstrong, who, he said, had at once declared that " steel

was wholly inapplicable to the construction of ordnance ; " and who, if

Mr. Sidney Herbert's statements were true, had succeeded in convincing

him that it would be a waste of time and public money to put up the

Bessemer apparatus at Woolwich. It was quite evident that Mr. Sidney

Herbert had made up his mind to fling to the winds all the labours and

trials of Colonel Wilmot, and at the same time to utterly ignore me and
Ithe expense and trouble to which
                                        had been put. The strongest

protest on my part at this injustice, and my urgent request to have

my process tried, failed to move Mr. Sidney Herbert one iota from his
firm resolve to keep me and my process out of Woolwich, and to allow

Sir William Armstrong, with his immensely more expensive welded iron

Igun, to have the field to himself. There was nothing for it but to
submit, and  retired from this interview in deep disgust with Mr.

Herbert and his arbitrary proceedings.

     The event just recorded, although it had the effect of closing my

connection with Woolwich Arsenal, did not in any way determine the
            THE BESSEMER PROCESS AND THE WAR OFFICE  191

fitness or otherwise of mild Bessemer steel for the construction of
Iordnance.
            feel bound in honour, and in justice to my own name, to

vindicate, not by mere words, but by an array of well-authenticated

facts such as no intelligent person can lessen or deny, the perfect adapt-
ability of this discarded material for that purpose.

     It will be remembered by my readers that Bessemer steel, which

is now used, and its value acknowledged, over the whole civilised world,

was the direct outcome of my investigations in search of a more suitable

metal than was at that time employed in the construction of ordnance.

IIt is my present purpose to show that had succeeded in attaining the
Iresult which sought, and thus not permit the mere assertion of one
Iman to obliterate from the page of history the fact that originated a

process and produced a material which, at the time the experiments

were made by Colonel Wilmot at Woolwich, and for twelve years after

that period,* and consequently during the whole tenure of office of Sir

William Armstrong at Woolwich, stood unrivalled as a material for the

construction of ordnance. No other known process could, at that period,

produce steel with such marvellous rapidity, and at such an enormous

reduction in price ; no other known method could produce in large

masses steel of such a degree of mildness as to pass, by almost imper-
ceptible gradations, downwards until it became soft iron ; nor did there

exist any other known process by which large masses of almost chemi-

cally pure iron could be produced without weld or joint, t

Many persons who are not intimately acquainted with the early

history of Bessemer steel have fallen into great error, and honestly believe

that the Bessemer process was in itself uncertain and incapable of

perfect control, and that the excellent material commercially produced

at the present time has been the result of a long succession of improve-

ments in the process since it left my hands. Nothing could be more

Iabsolutely erroneous or more historically untrue, as shall show further

on by incontestable proofs. No doubt all popular beliefs and prejudices

      * The open-hearth process was patented in 1865, and practically introduced in 1869.

    It am speaking of a period of about twelve years prior to the manufacture of any kind

of open-hearth steel, and when the production of mild crucible steel was extremely difficult
arid pure malleable iron in large cast masses was impossible by any known process but mine.
192                     HENRY BESSEMER

Ihave some real, or supposed, good reason for their origin, and this

particular popular error was, admit, the outcome of circumstances only

too well calculated to give rise to, and perpetuate, such a belief. The

Bessemer process was sprung upon the iron trade suddenly, and in

a moment, as it were, it excited the wildest hopes and the direst
apprehensions. But it was very soon afterwards discovered that with

ordinary phosphoric pig-iron it failed to produce iron or steel of any

commercial value. It is almost impossible at this distant period to realise

the sudden revulsion of feeling which then took place, and the utter

disbelief in the whole scheme which followed, and, passing beyond all
Ireasonable bounds, has not, even at the time am now writing, entirely
              IWhen, after the labour of two years,
disappeared.                                         had succeeded in
Imaking " Bessemer Pig " from British hematite ; when from that pig

had produced steel of excellent quality for all structural purposes ; when

I had manufactured a high-class tool steel from Swedish pig ; and when

also the tipping vessel was invented with the ladle provided with a

bottom valve, the conical mould, and the hydraulic crane ; when, in fact,

the general system of the present day was a proved commercial reality

Iat my own works in Sheffield ; then, and not till then, did again

bring my process before the trade, when it still met with blank
Iincredulity and distrust. But this time
                                          was backed with proofs

that could not be denied, for there, in the town of Sheffield, in the

very heart of the great steel industry of the country, stood the Bessemer

Steel Works, in daily commercial operation, underselling the old-established

manufacturer, who still resisted its encroachment and obstinately refused

to believe in it. But the temptation to the ironmaster to become a

steel manufacturer at then existing prices was very great, and the adapta-

bility of the process to the manufacturer of rails was self evident. Rail

mills and steel works were established by people who had no previous

knowledge or experience of steel and its peculiarities, and, what was still

worse, there was not a manager or foreman, or even an ordinary workman,

to be found who had any knowledge whatever of the new process. As
Ian instance oi this difficulty,  may mention a case in point. A very
Ihandy carpenter, whom
                        had employed to assist in the works, had

acquired a certain amount of routine knowledge of the process. This
                                                       EARLY DIFFICULTIES                                                 193

made him a valuable man, and one of my licensees who had adopted

my process bid a high price for this small amount of practical knowledge,

and engaged this carpenter's services, under a five years' agreement, at
It5 per week.
               is only fair to say that he was quite worth it.

Thus it happened that those ironmasters who had adopted my process

had to struggle against difficulties quite unknown in any old-established

trade. Need we wonder, then, that the quality of their steel sometimes

differed from day to day ?                                                                                                from
       The ironmaster had been in the habit of making bar iron                                                            steel
                                                                                                                          This
every kind of pig, and he could not realise the fact that good
by my process could only be made from a special quality of iron.

he did not like to buy from other makers ; in those early days he did not
fully understand how to make it himself, and hence he would use inferior

hematite iron, or mix some of his own phosphoric pig with
                                                                                     ;                              to eke

                                                                                                                     it,

                                                                                                                              it
out and lessen the cost. The bad results so produced were all set down

to the uncertainty of the Bessemer process nor did the extreme jealousy
of the steel trade prevent such unfavourable reports from being published
with all the usual embellishments naturally arising from ignorance or

prejudice.

This adoption of my process by the ironmaster for making rails went
Iffar to discredit it.
                                                       you told  steel maker that    was being largely
                                                                 a                   it
used, he would say " Well, perhaps
                                                                      it it                                      ;
is                                                                                   good enough for rails anything
     a                                                                        is is
good enough for rails." Indeed,                                                      true that in the case of rails
          it
                                                    :
moderate variations of temper were not fatal. The rail might be a little

too hard or too soft, but in either case was immensely superior to iron,
                                                                 it
            passed muster. But                                            it
and so                                                           was when boiler plates, ships' plates

or crank-axles, were required, that the inexperienced ironmaster, with his

inexperienced workmen, began to realise the fact that steel was wanted
of certain standard of quality for special purposes and that he
                                                                                     ;

                                                                                                      is
must train his men, who were little else than mere apprentices learning
Ita new trade, to produce these several qualities with certainty.
                                                                                                                          not

at all surprising, under such conditions, that Bessemer steel acquired

the character of being uncertain and not trustworthy.                                Hundreds of

workmen who had never before worked plate of steel in their lives,
                                                                 a

and were totally ignorant of its proper treatment, were engaged in the

                                                                                                                    c
                                                                                                                       c
194       HENRY BESSEMER

manufacture of steel boilers and in building steel ships. Such workmen
had no hesitation in putting a hot steel plate down on the floor, with
one end in a puddle of water ; or in placing a mass of cold iron on a red-
hot plate to keep it flat while cooling ; or, on the other hand, in over-
heating it in a furnace, quite unconscious that no steel would bear the
same high temperature as iron. And when they had thus succeeded in
spoiling a plate originally of good quality, they did not hesitate to lay

all the blame on the Bessemer process, which they honestly believed
was the sole cause of the mischief that their own want of experience as

steel-smiths had occasioned.

     When the investigation of the character and properties of Bessemer

Steel, undertaken by Colonel Eardley Wilmot at Woolwich Arsenal,

was completed, all the early difficulties of the process had been entirely

removed.  We had become intimately acquainted by use, and by

analysis, with several brands of Swedish pig-iron, from which either soft

ductile iron, or steel of any degree of carburation, could be and in fact

was daily produced at our Sheffield works, on a commercial scale without

the employment of spiegeleisen. We had command also of a practically

unlimited supply of a very high-class non-phosphoric hematite Bessemer

pig-iron, suitable for conversion into steel. We had also magnesian

pig-iron from Germany, and Franklinite pig-iron from the United States,

the latter containing about 11 per cent, of manganese, which was greatly

preferred for deoxydising steel derived from British coke-made iron. We

had our converting vessels at that time mounted on axes ; and, in fact,

the Bessemer process was so complete, and so under command, as to enable
us to produce at will, pure Swedish steel of all tempers down to soft iron,

and also mild hematite steel, as good in all respects as we are able to make
at the present day. Above all, we had the advantage of the knowledge

and experience of Mr. W. D. Allen, Managing Partner of the Bessemer
Steel Works at Sheffield. In proof of my assertion that the Bessemer

Iprocess was at that time as perfect in results as at any later date, will

give a few examples of our products, commencing at a period several months
prior to the advent of Sir William Armstrong at Woolwich, covering

the whole five years of his official power, and extending for some years after

his departure from the Arsenal. Fig. 49, Plate XIX., is a photographic
PLATE XIX

                    H

                               H
                               13
                              co
V o- THE
UNIVERSITY

           of
STEEL GUN TUBES                                 195

Ireproduction of some test specimens, to which  have already alluded,

representing three out of four pieces of gun-tube tested at Woolwich,

two of them made of mild steel, and the others being nearly chemically

pure iron. It will be remembered that these cylinders were made at

my works at Sheffield, and were crushed flat, in the presence of Colonel

Wilmot and myself at Woolwich, while cold, under the heavy blows

of a large steam hammer. In order to give a correct idea of the nature

Iand appearance of these crushed gun-tubes and hoops, refer my readers

to the photographic reproduction, Fig. 49. The specimens illustrated

were made of Bessemer hematite pig-iron, converted into steel by the

Bessemer process, and of a quality precisely the same as we were, at

that early period, daily using in the manufacture of railway-carriage

axles, piston-rods of steam engines, and other general machine forgings.

     In the illustration, A represents a portion of a gun-tube for a

rifled gun, machined and finished ; B is one of these pieces, flattened, as

shown, and C is a larger hoop, crushed flat with the heavy blows of

the steam hammer. The two sides where the bend takes place are

immensely stretched on the exterior surface, and also greatly compressed

on their inner side, but at no point does the metal exhibit the smallest

trace of fracture. The dimensions of these specimens will be readily

seen by reference to the two-foot rule photographed with them. These

examples of the toughness and endurance of Bessemer mild steel, after

being subjected to violent and sudden strains, were exhibited in my

large glass case at the International Exhibition of 1862, and must have

been seen by hundreds and thousands of persons. When one reflects

on the extent and prominence of my exhibit, covering an enclosed area

of 1,225 square feet, and surrounded by a counter of more than 100 ft.

in length, covered with steel exhibits, and having a 24-pounder gun

forging on a pedestal at the central entrance, and an 18 pounder finished

gun in the large central case, it is difficult to believe that this gun-hoop
and these crushed gun-tubes were not seen during the time of the

Exhibition by every engineer in London, and by every employe at
Woolwich Arsenal, as well as by our Minister of War, who with a

light heart excluded Bessemer process from Woolwich.

    I desire to draw the reader's earnest attention to these crushed gun-
196  HENRY BESSEMER

tubes, for it is impossible, in my opinion, for any intelligent person to

look at these marvellous proofs of the toughness and power of extension

and distortion of the metal, and not be convinced that such a material

Iwas pre-eminently suited for the construction of ordnance. The two

similar crushed cylinders which gave to Colonel Wilmot were greatly

prized by him, and were kept as trophies, with several other experimental

proofs, on the writing-table in his private office at the Arsenal, where

I saw them on several occasions prior to his vacating the office.
    I may mention that when Colonel Wilmot inspected my Sheffield

Steel Works, he happened to see on the scrap-heap a large mass of

Bessemer malleable iron, which he wished to have for the purpose of

experiment, and which, at his request, was sent to him to Woolwich.

On May 24th, 1859, speaking of Bessemer iron and steel at a meeting of

the Institution of Civil Engineers, he referred to this piece of iron during

the discussion, and stated that a cylindrical piece of Bessemer pure iron,

when only extended by forging to twice its original length, had a

tenacity per square inch of 28 tons 13 cwt. 1 qr. and 2 lb., a tenacity
which it possessed in all directions alike, as against the best Yorkshire

iron, which was usually credited with a tenacity of 25 tons in the direction

of its length, and very considerably less across the grain, even after

being rolled and piled and again rolled into long bars. These bars,

when welded together to form a large forging of any kind, will

never afterwards possess the strength of the original bar, by two or

three tons per square inch. The analysis given by Colonel Wilmot was

issued from the Chemical Laboratory of the War Department, and can

be fully relied on as showing that no impurity but sulphur existed in

the specimen analysed in sufficient quantity to estimate, while no

spiegeleisen or manganese was used in its production.  (This metal
was converted from Swedish pig.)

     Colonel Eardley Wilmot's remarks are herewith reproduced from the

Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

      Colonel Eardley Wilmot, R.A., said he had, from the commencement of these inquiries,
taken a great interest in them, and had mechanically tested the products originally produced.
A chemical examination was also made at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich, and the result had

indicated, and it had been stated at the same time, that the Bessemer process was perfectly
                                                               COLONEL WILMOT'S EXPERIMENTS                                     197

    effectual for removing the silicon from iron, but that it did not operate upon the phosphorus

    or the sulphur. Acting on this knowledge, which was corroborated in many quarters,

    Mr. Bessemer had wisely dealt with such iron as yielded the desired result. As regarded

    the difficulties of the process, as well as the results of                             he thought that the best thing for
                                                                                           it,
                                                                                                                                           it
aa    member of practical society to do, was to follow his example, and to go and see                                                          for
                  4a
    himself. Nothing could be more simple, or more perfectly under control; and having, by
                        ; it
                                   it
      few trials, ascertained the particular kind of treatment required, with the sample of iron

    to be dealt with,  was operated upon with certainty. It was said that there was nothing

    new in the process but                                                                         not, new result, that
                                                               might be fairly asked, was  a it,
                                                                                                          it
                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                           or was

aa a  bar of iron in. in diameter could be bent cold into perfect contact, without any sign

    of flaw? As regarded the particular product in which he was most interested, namely,

      cast metal for cannon, projectiles, iron plates for shot-proof ships, and all military purposes,                                         ;
      circumstance had not being mentioned which he would name as being peculiarly instructive

    while the metal, after having being operated on to the extent required to make malleable
                                                                                                          a it,
                                                                                                                      it
    iron, was in the ladle ready for pouring into the moulds, an accident occurred to the

    tapping-hole  of the ladle, and the metal was allowed to get cold in                                   instead of being
    poured out.                                                                                           gun mould, with,
                  Here was the ordinary condition of           common casting in
                                                               a
    however, this important difference, that in this case                                  was very shallow, as compared with
                                                                   it

    the gun mould, and there was, therefore, no condensation of the material from fluid pressure.

A     ...............cylinder of in. diameter was taken out of this mass, and gave tenacity of 42,908 Ib.aa
                                                               specific gravity of 7.626. A similar cylinder was drawn out
           a
                                 2

                                                            a
on the square inch, and

    under an ordinary smith's hammer to twice its length, and then gave tenacity of 64,426 Ib.,

and specific gravity of 7.841. This portion of metal was examined by the Chemist to

the War Department, and was found to contain

      Silicon                                                                                      0.00
      Graphite                                                                                     0.00
      Combined Carbon                                                                              minute quantity
      Sulphur                                                                                      0.02
      Phosphorus                                                                                   trace

      Manganese                                                                                    trace

This appeared to him to approach more nearly to true iron than any he had seen. The

ordinary iron of the market was, in that sense, not iron, but compound of iron and certain
                                                               it

                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                   it, ;
other ingredients. The ordinary re-melting would remove, or combine, the graphite only

the Bessemer process would remove the silicon, and when applied to an iron having but
                                                                                                   If an additional process
little phosphorus and sulphur, would do all that was required.

was discovered for removing these, all the iron ores of England, instead of only                                                very

large portion of them, could be converted into pure iron.

      As regarded the steel, he had been using                 for turning the outside of iron guns,

cutting off large shavings several inches in length, and he had found none superior to

although much more costly. It was only necessary to witness the operation of the manufacture

by the Bessemer process to be satisfied that the expense of converting the pig-iron into

any of the products involved scarcely any cost beyond the labour, and that for very short
198                      HENRY BESSEMER

period of time. And as far as the price went, Mr. Bessemer had offered to supply such
sizes as it was worth his while to make at the prices stated.

     IThe above quotation serves to corroborate what have previously

said as to the deep interest taken by the Superintendent of the Royal
IGun Factories on this subject, and
                                     much regret that the numerous

analyses made from time to time at the Arsenal have not been preserved.

I I IBut find that gave in my Paper, which read in May, 1859, at

the Institution of Civil Engineers, when Colonel Wilmot was present,

a number of official tests of the tensile strength of soft Bessemer

malleable iron in its cast unhammered state, and also when hammered.

There were also several tests of highly-carburised Bessemer steel, in

hammered and unhammered condition.

       The extreme limits of tensile strength of the converted metal are
shown in the following Tables, which give the results of many trials
made at different times at the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich, under the
superintendence of Colonel Wilmot :

     TESTS MADE AT WOOLWICH OP BESSEMER STEEL.
                Tensile Strength per Square Inch.

       Bessemer Steel.   Various Trials.  Mean Tensile Strength.

          In the cast                Ib.  6 3,023 Ik = 28. 13 tons
                                  42,780
     unhammered state.            48,892        per square inch.
                                  57,295
      After hammering             61,667  152,9121b. = 68.26 tons
            or rolling.           64,015        per square inch.
                                  72,503
                                  77,808
                                  79,223

                                136,490
                               145,512
                               146,676
                                156,862
                                158,899
                                162,970
                                162,974
COLONEL WILMOTS EXPERIMENTS                                          199

                          Tensile Strength per Square Inch.

      Bessemer Iron.      Various Trials.  Mean Tensile Strength.

       In the cast                   Ib.   41,243 Ib. = 18.41 tons
                                 38,197          per square inch.
   unhammered state.             40,234
                                 41,584    72,643 lb. = 32. 43 tons
   After hammering               42,908         per square inch.
          or rolling,            43,290
                                           68,319 lb. = 30.50 tons
         Flat Ingot              64,059          per square inch.
rolled into Boiler Plate         65,253
                                 75,598
      Avithout piling.           76,195
                                 82,110

                                 63,591
                                 63,668
                                 72,896
                                 73,103
CHAPTER XV

BESSEMER STEEL: THE ARMSTRONG CONTROVERSY

nnHE late Ebenezer Parkes, of Birmingham, a well-known metallurgist

-*- and tube manufacturer, conceived the bold idea that copper tubes

for locomotive boilers of, say, 2 in. in diameter and 12 ft. in length could

be formed without a seam or joint from flat circular plates of copper
of 27 in. in diameter and about -f$ in. in thickness. He forced these
plates through an opening 11 in. in diameter, in a die under an hydraulic

press ; they thus became short cylinders. These cylinders were after-

wards drawn out longer and less in diameter on steel mandrils,

which were made for him at our Sheffield Works. He, however, found

that the strain on ordinary sheet copper was so severe that many plates

cracked and failed, and it was not until he obtained chemically-pure

copper the result of electrolysis that his manufacture was a commercial
Isuccess. On one occasion
                           met Mr. Parkes at my Works at Sheffield,

and, in speaking of the extreme toughness of our mild steel, he said

he had no doubt that he could force plates of it through his dies, as
I Ihe was doing with copper.
                           must confess that          did not think this
Ipossible ; but on his persisting in his assertion,  arranged to return

with him to Birmingham the same evening, taking five discs of our
J f Imild steel, varying from in. up to in. in thickness.
                                                           was anxious

also to try a very stout plate, and there happened, at the time, to be

some locomotive boiler tube-plates (ordered by the Lancashire and
Yorkshire Railway Company) in course of construction at our works.

One of these was found to be sufficiently large to allow us to cut off

a disc from one end, 27 in. in diameter, without spoiling the plate.

ITaking these discs, Mr. Parkes and proceeded to Birmingham, and

on the next morning we commenced operations. We succeeded in making

these steel plates into deep cylinders of 11 in. in diameter. They were
                   BESSEMER STEEL BOILER PLATES                                                                                              201

quite cold when operated on : had they been red-hot, those parts in

contact with the cold dies would have become cooled, and stretching

unequally with the hot parts, would inevitably have failed. Figs. 50

to 55 illustrate the mode of operation.                 press, and B

      In Fig. 50, A represents the ram of an hydraulic

a circular punch, the lower angles of which are slightly rounded ;

c is a circular ring, or die, having a trumpet-shaped mouth, shown in

FIG. 50            FIG. 51                              FIG. 52

                                                 'DIAMETER

FIG. 53            FIG. 54                       FIG. 55

FIGS. 50 TO 55. BESSEMER STEEL BOILER PLATE BEING PRESSED INTO A CUP (1861)

Asection, and resting on the hollow bed D, of the hydraulic press.  circular

recess of 27 in. in diameter was made on the upper side of the die to

receive the plate of steel to be operated on ; E, Fig. 50, shows the cold

plate of steel placed in the die ready for bulging. The descent of the

ram forced the plate into a dished form, shown at E in Fig. 51. The

further descent of the ram, as shown in Fig. 52, drove the plate nearly

                   however, still had its mouth slightly splayed.
through the die :it
                      it,

                                a
                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                          D
Another movement of the ram pushed the plate entirely through the

die, and made      into plain parallel cylinder, with slightly-rounded

                                                                                                                                 D
202                           HENRY BESSEMER

bottom, as represented at Fig. 55. In spite of this marvellous trans-

formation, in form and dimensions, the metal remained at all parts wholly

uninjured, as was incontestably proved by the fact that the cylinder

became a beautiful sonorous bell, in which the critical musical ear could

not detect any fault in tone, due to crack or injury of any kind.
       Now let us for one moment consider what changes the solid cold

steel underwent, as it flowed like a piece of plastic clay, and suffered so

great a change in the position of all its constituent particles. In Fig. 53

fwe have the original disc seen on edge ; it was in. in thickness, 27 in. in

diameter, and 84f in. in circumference ; both its sides were originally
of the same area. When made into a cylinder or cup it measured on

the outside 34j- in. in circumference, and on the inside 29 in. only ; the

metal which originally formed its outer circumference had been reduced

Jto 34 in. Such a change of form and flow of cold steel from one part

of the mass to another, required enormous force, and yet so great was
the toughness and resilience of this mild steel that the changes of form

Iand dimension were possible without producing a symptom of rupture.

fearlessly challenge any person of ordinary intelligence to study, however

slightly, these diagrams, and then to cast his eye on the accompanying

illustration, Fig. 56, Plate XX., which is a reproduction of this

steel cup, without coming to the conclusion that in these early days
of the Bessemer process we could, and did, produce a metal pre-eminently
adapted to the construction of ordnance : a metal that could be manu-

factured from Swedish charcoal pig-iron in homogeneous, unwelded masses
of from 5 to 20 tons in weight, at less than one-half the price paid for
Lowmoor iron bars, from which the Armstrong gun coils were made.

I cannot tell the precise date of the actual production of the cup illustrated,
Ibut know it was many months before the great Exhibition of 1862.
I can trace it back to that period by evidence that cannot be disputed.

The Engineer newspaper of the first week in May, 1862, describing my
exhibit of Bessemer steel, says :

     There are also some extraordinary examples of the toughness of Bessemer steel made from

British coke-made pig-iron, among which may be enumerated two deep vessels of one foot in

fdiameter, with flattened bottoms and vertical sides ; at the top edge, one of them is in. and
|the other in. in thickness.
                              These are formed up in a press from flat circular discs of steel.
PLATE XX
                    EXPERIMENTS WITH BESSEMER STEEL                                                                203

They can now be drawn into long tubes, either of their present diameter, or they may be reduced
to locomotive boiler tubes of 2 in. in diameter ; there is also shown an attempt to raise a piece
of the best Staffordshire iron plate by the same tools ; this only went about as deep in proportion
as an ordinary soup plate before it fractured all around the punch, and almost fell into two

pieces. It may be remembered that Mr. Parkes, who invented this beautiful system of making

unwelded tubes, has been obliged to use the very highest quality of copper for that purpose ;
the ordinary copper of commerce generally cracks, but the Bessemer steel, as seen by these
examples, stands this fearful ordeal wiflh perfect safety.

    IOn the closing of the Exhibition of 1862, presented this cup to

Dr. Percy, who placed it in the gallery of the Geological Museum in
Jermyn Street, whence it was, many years ago, transferred to the South

Kensington Museum. The Curator kindly allowed me to have a photo-

graph taken of and from this photograph the engraving on Plate XX.

has been made.
                  ; it,
Since writing the above,
                               I
                                     I

                                               I
                                     have called to memory an earlier date

on which one of these deep cups was exhibited.                                                                     refer to the occasion of

Sir William Armstrong's visit to Sheffield, as President of the Institution

of Mechanical Engineers, which held its summer meeting there on

July 31st, 1861 in proof of this     refer to the copy of my Paper

as printed and issued by that Institution. In the Proceedings of the

Institution the Secretary interpolated, between the reprint of my Paper

and the report of the discussion thereon, the announcement which
                                                                                                                   a
here reproduced.                                                                                                              aa

Mr. Bessemer exhibited an 18-pounder gun made of the Bessemer steel cast in single                                                a is

ingot of the required size and subsequently hammered, with                                                         variety of specimens of the
            a
                                                                 a

                                                                      a
                                                                                                                a

                                                                                                            a
metal, broken to show the quality of the fracture; also some piston rods, boiler plate

flanged for locomotive firebox, and  plate bulged in die without cracking or tearing;

plate of thin metal punched with     number of small holes very close together, and tube

of the metal which had been crushed flat without the surface of the metal cracking. He

showed also one of the fireclay tuyeres used for blowing the melted metal in the converting

vessel, and specimens of the ganister used for lining the vessel and ladle, both new and

after use.

The " variety of specimens of the metal broken to show the quality

of the fracture" should have been described as "specimens crushed to
show the toughness of the steel." " A plate bulged in die "
                    a                                                                                              the
                                                                                        a
                                                                                                       is
deep cup made from  flat piece of boiler plate 27 in. diameter, and

already mentioned as being illustrated in Fig. 56, Plate XX. The tube
204                           HENRY BESSEMER

of metal crushed flat without cracking (see c, Fig. 49, Plate XIX.) was

similar to the crushed gun-tubes so many years exhibited in the South

Kensington Museum, and now in the possession of the Iron and Steel

Institute. Figs. 57 to 60, on Plates XXI., XXII., and XXIII., show

other specimens exhibited at the meeting.

     It is unnecessary to multiply examples, since those already given

cannot fail to convince any unprejudiced person that in these early days

     a
                                                      is

                                                         is
                                                                                                       it,
of the Bessemer process all those manufacturers who understood                                              and

took the amount of care which                    necessary in all properly-conducted

manufacturing operations, were able to produce steel of high quality with

as great degree of regularity as                 common with any other modes of

             FIG. 61. PEESSING BESSEMER STEEL BLOCK FOR RIFLE BARREL

             however, cannot refrain from giving yet another instance
production.  a I,

                                              a
of the wonderful tenacity and endurance of this metal when subjected

to the most violent strains.

     About the year 1862,                        Mr. Thompson, of Bilston, took out                         a

patent for novel and ingenious mode of manufacturing Enfield rifle-

barrels, and after many trials he chose Bessemer mild steel as the material

most suitable for this purpose. Our works at Sheffield supplied him

with large quantities of mild steel, in the form of round bars in. in
                                                                      6
                                                                          3
diameter. These were afterwards sawn into lengths of about in., and

when made red-hot were placed on end under the steam-hammer, which

carried a cylindrical steel punch of in. in diameter, having conical
                              it                                      a
                                                  1
                                                                 B,
end resembling an armour-piercing shot, as shown in Fig. 61. The

hammer A had projecting from the punch                               beneath which was placed
PLATE XXI
   PLATE XXII

OO

02
 0Ha3
 O
 PS
PQ
 Hps
00

d
                                                   PLATE XXTIT

                                                                                                                 B
                                                                                                                00

                                                                                    o

                                                                                                                 w
                                                                                                                CO

. oo

                                                                                                                Q

o HH
    > OF THF

((  UNIVERSITY

              of
EXPERIMENTS WITH BESSEMER STEEL                                          205

the steel piece c, shown partly pierced by one or two blows. This piece
was placed over an opening in the anvil block D, and after two or three
more blows it was pierced from end to end, forming a short tube
from which no metal has been removed. This violent treatment did not

split or injure the steel in any way, but was well calculated to show

any defect if the metal operated upon was not absolutely sound. After

the operation of punching, the short tubular piece was rolled between
a pair of rollers having a series of tapering grooves formed on them,
and also an enlarged recess to form the breech part out of the solid,
so that a barrel in one piece without welding was produced. This was
afterwards finished in the usual way. The severe test to which these mild
steel barrels were subjected at the Proof House, Birmingham, is shown
in the annexed tabular statement, which is taken from a Paper read
by me at the Royal United Service Institution on May 2nd, 1864,
and published in the Transactions, from which the Table herewith

given is copied.

TRIAL OP Two STEEL GUN-BARRELS (ENPIELD PATTERN), AT THE PROOF-HOUSE, BIRMINGHAM.
                     Barrels made from Bessemer Steel by Thompson's Patent process.

Barrels, 1853 Infantry Pattern, .577 bore. Bullets used, 715 grains. Diameter, .551

Length, 1.043. Ratio of length to diameter, 1.893,

                    Result of Experiments :

1st round, charge   205 grains,  7| drachms  powder,  1 bullet.
2nd round, charge   224 grains,  8J drachms  powder,  1 bullet.
3rd round,                                            2 bullets.

4th round,                                            3 bullets.

5th round,          ,,                                4 bullets.

6th round,                                            5 bullets.

The barrels were now examined and found intact.

 7th round, charge  224 grains, 8\ drachms   powder, 6 bullets.
 8th round,                                                  7 bullets.
 9th round,           ,,                                   8 bullets.
10th round,                                                9 bullets,
                     Barrels found intact.
llth round,                                              10 bullets.
                                                         11 bullets.
12th round,                                              12 bullets.
13th round,                                                13 bullets.
                                                           14 bullets.
14th round,
15th round,                                                15 bullets.

16th round,
206                                     HENRY BESSEMER

                    17th round, charge 224 grains, 8J drachms powder, 16 bullets.

       The firing was now continued with one barrel only, the nipple having been blown out
of the other, which, still retaining its charge of 16 bullets, remained intact.

       18th  round,  charge  increased  to 269 grains,  9f drachms  ,,18powder, 17 bullets.
       19th  round,                          413                                           bullets.
     *20th   round,                                     15                          and 25 bullets.

       Length of each bullet, 1.043.                       Further test was deemed unnecessary.
       The barrel was then examined and found intact.      *in the presence of Ezra Millward, Esq.,
       Proved by Mr. Samuel Hart, Assistant Proof-Master,
Proof-Master at Birmingham, December 23rd, 1863.

     With these examples of the extraordinary toughness and tenacity

of both pure Bessemer iron and Bessemer steel, no one, with any knowledge

of the violent strains to which the test pieces were subjected, can doubt

the fact that between the copper-like toughness of the pure Bessemer

iron, and the great tenacity of the more highly carburised steel which we

were at that time supplying to engineers, for making every description of

cutlery and cutting tools, there did exist, and could easily have been

found by trial, the precise quality of steel most suitable for the construc-
                      It must be borne in mind that it was not until
tion of ordnance.

some ten years later, that in the year 1869, that any Siemens-Martin,
                     3 is
                                     is,

                                              5
                                                      ;

                                        it ;

                                                           a
                                                                               is

                                                                                                                          a
or open-hearth steel, was made, and consequently that the only varieties

of cast-steel then available for guns were crucible cast-steel and

Bessemer cast-steel.         The fact must also be recognised that both the

difficulty and the cost of producing large masses of crucible steel

increased greatly whenever the metal was required to be of the very

mild quality known as low carbon steel, which most difficult to fuse

in crucibles, as well as to retain in fusion during the time occupied in

filling a large mould from hundreds of separate small vessels. Hence

the strong temptation the steel manufacturers had to supply

more carburised, and consequently                       more easily fusible and less

tough, steel than was specified while the price of this crucible steel

was greatly augmented as the ingot became larger, increasing to over

 100 per ton. It equally notorious that not one of these disadvantages

applied to the Bessemer metal           was, in fact, cheaper to produce a single

mass of 10 or 20 tons in weight than to make the same weight in a number

of small batches of tons to tons. Nor was there any greater difficulty
                     COST OF BESSEMER STEEL                207

in making the mildest possible quality of steel, because we always began

by making pure soft iron. From the zero point of decarburisation

the hardest qualities of steel could be made, differing by almost imper-

ceptible gradations, and depending on the number of pounds of rich

carburet of iron added to the pure iron for that purpose.

The material had been proved in all respects suitable for the
Imanufacture of ordnance, and, as have already said, Colonel Eardley
IWilmot and
             had arranged, under contract, to erect a Bessemer

plant in the old gun foundry at Woolwich, which was amply large

enough for that purpose. This project, had it been carried out, would

have rendered wholly unnecessary the erection of a second arsenal

at Elswick, built under the guarantee of the British Government at
Ita cost of 85,000.
                     must also be borne in mind that by my

process we had the advantage of being able to make, if desired, malleable

iron guns in a single piece without a weld or joint, by founding,

or by the combined processes of founding and forging, with or without

hoops ; so that if malleable iron, and not steel, had in reality been the

best material for the construction of ordnance, such guns could have

been produced at Woolwich Arsenal, either as complete gun-castings,

or as ingots to be forged, at a cost not exceeding 6 or 7 per ton

if made of British iron, and not exceeding 10 per ton if made of Swedish

charcoal pig-iron ; whereas the Lowmoor iron bars used to make the

coiled guns cost over 20 per ton, and were the mere raw material to

start with. Nor did the Bessemer pure malleable iron, if used for guns,

admit of any of the charges that had been made to depreciate the value

of steel for that purpose, namely, that it was very uncertain in quality,

and could not be obtained of the precise degree of carburisation and

toughness required. Such a charge could not possibly be made in

reference to pure iron, which was wholly decarburised, a condition which

it was impossible to mistake during its manufacture, for the huge white

flame issuing from the converter suddenly drops when all the carbon

is burnt out, a result which occurs with unerring certainty. At all
events, if Bessemer steel could not be depended upon at Woolwich,

Swedish charcoal pig-iron, wholly decarburised, could have been made

in masses of 10 to 20 ton, at a cost not exceeding  10 per ton, and
208                        HENRY BESSEMER

of, at least, 5 tons per square inch greater tensile strength than Lowmoor

bars, as was proved by Colonel Wilmot's experiments at Woolwich Arsenal;
while the cost of the huge unwelded mass would have been less than

half the cost per ton of the bar-iron used to make a welded coil with

its many imperfect junctions.

    I should like to say a few words here about the broad distinctive

characters of the two materials, wrought or bar-iron, and cast homogeneous
Iiron or steel.
                 need scarcely remind the reader that bar-iron making

begins with the process of puddling, which produces a ball or mass of

iron that, in every case, is mechanically mixed with fluid scoria, and

sometimes with sand and dry oxide or iron scale. From this crude

material, puddle bars are made, and these are cut into lengths of 2 ft.

or 3 ft., and formed into a bundle or pile, which is brought up to a

welding heat in a suitable furnace, and then rolled into a merchant bar.

This process of rolling and piling is repeated more than twice, and a bar

is in this way produced, which to the eye appears, and is supposed,

to have all its separate parts welded or united so as to form an undivided
Iand indivisible mass. But this is not so.
                                            have never seen a bar of

wrought iron produced by puddling that, in two or three minutes, by
Ia very simple treatment,
                           could not separate more or less perfectly

into its component bars, which are in reality never thoroughly united,

although they adhere more or less soundly. In fact, so imperfect is this

adhesion called "welding," that whenever bar-iron is worked under the

hammer, it is necessary to forge it at such a degree of heat as will
continue the welding process ; for by working it much below this

temperature, the imperfectly coherent mass begins at once to separate

at all the junctions between the several bars of which it is composed,

and tumbles to pieces.                                             Two

    I will describe an experiment clearly illustrating this fact.

pieces of ordinary commercial bar - iron of 1 in. square were heated

to a blood-red heat, and put under a small steam-hammer, where they

received several blows on alternate sides ; the result was a complete

disintegration of the mass, as shown in Fig. 62, Plate XXIV. The lower

example was similarly treated on alternate angles, instead of on the flat

sides. It may be supposed that the far-famed Lowmoor and other
PLATE XXIV
(  JOF THF     )
   UNIVERSITY

        or r
PLATE XXV
BESSEMER STEEL V. WROUGHT IRON                            209

Yorkshire irons are exempt from this defect, but this is not so, the
simple fact being that " best-best " iron has been piled more times than

common iron, and the result of working it at a temperature that will not

continue the welding process, only divides it into more numerous filaments
Ithan a bar of common iron.
                             may mention the fact that, on one occasion,
Iduring a short stay at my works at Sheffield, had the honour of a

visit from an active partner in one of the great Yorkshire firms which stand
Iso deservedly high among bar-iron makers.
                                            mentioned this fact of

imperfect welding, and the consequent disintegration of bar-iron by simply
working it at a temperature below welding heat. My visitor laughed

I "Ifoutright at the possibility of such a thing happening to any bar-iron
that his firm had ever turned out.  said :  you will wait while

I Ione of my people goes to an iron warehouse in the town and purchases

a bar of your iron, will convince you that am right." Well, he

patiently waited until the bar was procured, and admitted at once
Athat the brand stamped on it was his own.
                                            short length was then
                                            It was put under one of
cut from it and heated in his presence.

the rapidly-moving tilt hammers at that moment being used in forging

our bar steel at the same low heat. The result was that the Yorkshire

iron bar divided, under this simple treatment, for about a foot of its

length into a mass of fibres forming a veritable birch-broom, to the utter

astonishment of the manufacturer.

     At the time when the two bars of 1-in. square iron, shown in Fig. 62,
Plate XXIV., were hammered, a similar bar of Bessemer mild steel was

treated at the same temperature under the same hammer. The illustra-

tion, Fig. 63, Plate XXV., shows how it simply became extended into

a flat undivided surface, without crack or rift in the material. These

examples of forging below a welding heat serve to show the imperfection

inevitable in all puddled or welded iron ; while the steel example also

shows the continuity of parts resulting from the Bessemer steel or homo-

geneous iron being formed into an ingot while the metal is in a fluid

state, hence producing an undivided and indivisible mass, however much

it may be hammered, hot or cold.                          was in the

    IIt will be readily understood how deeply interested

application of my invention to the construction of ordnance, and how

                                                                                                                                        EE
210  HENRY BESSEMER

I Imuch felt encouraged by the high appreciation of what had achieved
Iby so competent a person as Colonel Eardley Wilmot. Although saw

that there was an almost endless variety of applications in industry to
which this cheap and superior metal could be advantageously applied,

I nevertheless felt a strong desire to see it used in the manufacture

of guns. Its summary rejection at Woolwich, however, without even
a trial, furnished me with yet another proof of the utter foolishness
of relying on Government, and made me throw up all idea of following
that branch of manufacture as a speciality. With a still lingering desire

Ito put my material to the test of gun-making, had looked pretty deeply

into the subject, in order to see what had already been done by others,

Iand how far the road was still open to me as a gun-manufacturer.

On searching at the Patent Office found the specification of Captain
Blakeley, dated February 27th, 1855 ; in this specification, Captain
Blakeley described his invention as consisting of certain improve-
ments in the construction of ordnance, in which an inner tube or

cylinder of steel, gun metal, or cast iron, was enclosed in a case or
covering of wrought iron or steel, which casing was made in parts,

either shrunk on to a cylindrical tube, or forced cold on to a tube, the
exterior surface of which was slightly conical, so as, in either case, to

tightly grip the inner tube, adding materially to its strength and power
of resisting internal pressure. This casing, whether made of cast-iron
or steel, might itself be further supported or strengthened by one or
more outer layers of rings or hoops, also put on under tension. Here
we had clearly and distinctly laid down the vital principles embodied in all
modern built-up guns, in this and in other countries that of external
compression of the inner tube by an outer one ; and, unless it can be
shown that this patent of Captain Blakeley was anticipated by a prior

invention, he must stand before the world as the originator and father

Iof modern built-up artillery. From this patent saw at once that it would

be impossible for me to manufacture built-up guns having an internal
steel tube, without direct infringement. Captain Blakeley, at this early

period (February, 1855), had the sagacity to see that a steel tube or lining
was an indispensible condition of a perfectly built-up gun : not only because
of its homogeneous character and freedom from welded joints, and its
BESSEMER STEEL V. WROUGHT IRON                           211

greater cohesive strength, but also because of its greater hardness and

power to resist the severe abrasion of its inner surface, caused by the

studs on the projectile moving along the rifled grooves under immense

lateral pressure. Although he knew that steel was the best possible
material for the lining of the gun, he, nevertheless, thought it prudent

to claim also the use of gun-metal and cast-iron, lest he should have

his invention evaded by the substitution of either of these last-named

homogeneous metals. He, however, evidently thought it unnecessary

to guard himself against the possible evasion of his patent built-up gun

by the substitution of a welded wrought-iron tube in place of a homo-

geneous steel one. This doubtless arose from his knowledge of the great

inferiority of wrought-iron, as compared with steel, for such a purpose,

and also from his practical experience, as an artillerist, of the searching

and highly corrosive nature of the intensely-heated powder gases, which,

sooner or later, find out and deeply corrode the numerous imperfectly-

welded joints inevitable in a wrought-iron gun tube.
      The natural effects of corrosion on wrought-iron bars must have been

commonly observed. Take, as an example, an old pump-handle, and

see how the once smooth and even surface is eaten into deep grooves

and furrows by corrosion, commencing at, and following, all the lines

where the several parts, of which the bar is composed, are imperfectly

welded together. Or examine an old chain cable, the links of which
were made of smooth round iron rods, and see the indented shape it

has acquired, the once smooth surface of each link being grooved by

corrosion of the metal where the parts were imperfectly welded in the

original formation, even of the high-class iron used for cables. This
Ifis the effect of water only on ordinary wrought iron.
                                                         any one

doubts the destructive effects of fluids more corrosive than water, let

him put a bright, well-finished piece of bar-iron into water containing
only one-tenth of its weight of sulphuric acid, and he will find that in

less than one hour he will have a perfect picture of the arrangement

of parts of which the bar is composed, showing all the imperfectly-
welded fibres, like a beautifully engraved map. What, then, must be the
result from the union of the oxygen in the saltpetre with the sulphur

in gunpowder, producing sulphuric acid gas, acting under enormous heat
212  HENRY BESSEMER

and pressure within the gun, and searching out and attacking all its

welded joints ?

     IIn my search at the Patent Office, also found the provisional

petition of Mr. William George Armstrong (afterwards Lord Armstrong),
dated February llth, 1857, being two years less sixteen days after the
patent of Captain Blakeley, which is dated, 27th February, 1855.
Annexed is a copy of Mr. Armstrong's provisional specification, issued
under the authority of the Commissioners of Patents :

                             (This Invention received Provisional Protection only.}

PROVISIONAL SPECIFICATION left by William George Armstrong at the Office of the Commissioners

                     of Patents, with his Petition, on the llth February, 1857.

      I, WILLIAM GEORGE ARMSTRONG, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in the County of Northumber-
land, Civil Engineer, do hereby declare the nature of the said Invention for " Improvements

in Ordnance," to be as follows :
        The improvements relate, firstly, to forming guns with the internal tube or cylinder

of wrought iron or gun metal in one piece, surrounded by one or more cylindrical casings of
wrought iron or gun metal shrunk upon the internal cylinder.

     It will be seen that this proposal of Mr. W. G. Armstrong differs

from the invention set forth in Captain Blakeley's prior patent, by

Isubstituting a wrought-iron internal tube for a steel one. As could

not lawfully make a built-up gun with collars or rings shrunk or forced

Ion to a steel tube, and as had no intention of evading Captain Blakeley's
Ipatent by using an inferior material for the inner tube of the gun,

   abandoned all idea of the manufacture of built-up guns, and contented
myself with supplying Captain Blakeley with steel tubes, or with forged
steel guns complete in one piece, with the trunnions formed thereon out

Iof the solid ingot. This manufacture commenced as early as February,
I1861; between that date and February 5th, 1863, had manufactured

at my works in Sheffield no less than seventy forged steel guns for foreign
service, not one of which was ever returned to me, or was reported to be
in any way defective.

     All these orders for guns came to me spontaneously, and were never

sought for by travellers, advertisements, circulars, or otherwise. But
not one gun, or gun-block, was ever ordered of me by the British
Government to test the qualities of this new steel, which at that period
BESSEMER STEEL V. WROUGHT IRON                    213

was the subject of the deepest interest and most careful examination

by intelligent engineers in every State in Europe.

      In the early part of the year 1859, the Bessemer Steel Works at

Sheffield had regularly embarked in the manufacture of high-class

Isteel for tools, and also for cutlery. For this purpose had investigated

the whole question of the supply from abroad of pure charcoal pig-iron,
and had practically tried the famous Algerian iron from Bone and other

Imines, and also Indian, Nova- Scotian, Styrian, and Swedish pig-irons.

Among the latter, found on analysis, to my astonishment, that certain
brands of charcoal pig, which, when delivered in Sheffield, cost only

  6 to 7 per ton, were, when decarburised by my process, superior in
purity to some of the highest brands of Swedish bar-iron, costing in

Sheffield from 16 to 24 per ton. One Swedish brand of pig-iron in

particular, costing 6 10s. delivered in Sheffield, was capable of making

malleable iron by my process more pure than the far-famed Danemora
L bar-iron, worth 30 per ton in Sheffield, and with which particular
Ibrand the small malleable iron gun which
                                                  exhibited in May, 1859,

at the Institution of Civil Engineers, was made. The analysis of this

by Mr. Edward Riley has already been given (page 182 ante).

     It will be conceded that if we obtained malleable iron of this extreme

purity by my process, steel of very high quality could also readily be

produced from that particular class of pig-iron.

Thus fortified by practical working and by actual analysis, and

also by the purchase of a large consignment of this pure charcoal pig,

we laid ourselves out at the Sheffield works for the production of high-

class tool steel, which we put on the market at 15s. or 20s. per

hundredweight below the ordinary trade prices for this article. My

process, so admirably adapted for the production of large ingots, was not

so well fitted to make a great number of the 2f in. square ingots
generally used in the Sheffield steel trade for tilting into small bars,

which particular size of ingot had all its long-established trade rules

and prices connected with it. So we determined to convert our pig

into steel in large quantities, and to pour the converted metal into an

iron cistern filled with water, in order to granulate the whole charge,

and avoid all costs of moulds, casting, etc. By this means, and by the
214          HENRY BESSEMER

blending of different charges in definite proportions, we insured the

production of steel of any desired temper, or degree of carburation,
with an accuracy wholly unattainable by the old crucible system. For
it must be borne in mind that in the ordinary crucible process the steel

melter has to deal with bar-iron that has been subjected for several

days, in a very large closed box or chamber, to the action of charcoal

powder at a high temperature, during which treatment the iron bars absorb

about one per cent, of carbon, more or less, dependent on time and

on temperature. The amount of absorption depends also on the relative
positions of the bars in the converting-box ; hence, when the bars are

thus converted into blister steel, it is almost impossible that the ends

and the middle of any particular bar should be equally carburised,

or that bars occupying different positions should absorb an equal

quantity of carbon. After the withdrawal of the bars from the

converting - chest, they are broken into short pieces for the melting

crucible. Now the only mode of telling how far each piece of the broken

bars has been carburised is to examine the crystalline fracture by the

eye, and thus class and assort the various fragments for each quality
Itof steel.
             is wonderful how accurately a clever practised steel melter

will judge of the state of carburation of the metal ; but his judgment,

after all, can only be approximate. Such visual determination is not

like measuring or weighing the constituents of a mixture. Crucible steel

is made in separate pots of from 40 Ib. to 50 Ib. each, and the steel

maker cannot afford to make forty-five separate quantitative analyses

of every ton of steel he turns out. Even if he could do so, after he

had made the metal into ingots, he would not be more secure, since he

could not alter the ingot when once cast. As a matter of fact, the

precise degree of carburation of each 50 Ib. of steel produced in the old
crucible process depended on the judgment of a man looking at the

crystallised fracture of each piece he put into his crucible ; and all

must agree that it is highly creditable to those engaged in this mere

guesswork that they got as near as they did to the quality required.

    IIn the manufacture of tool steel, on the system which laid down

at my Sheffield works, we entirely eliminated this source of inequality,

by dispensing with ocular examination of a crystalline fracture, which
            BESSEMER STEEL MAKING AT SHEFFIELD                        215

is subject to numerous modifications in character, from causes other

than its precise degree of carburation. We converted five tons of pig

iron at one charge, and having granulated it by pouring the molten

steel into a cistern of water, we had this quantity of shotted metal in

a condition that was still practically fluid as far as the power of
Ifmixing was concerned.
                         each granule weighed, on an average, seven

grains, we had in our 50       Ib. crucible 50,000 separate pieces, the
precise degree of carburation  of which had been ascertained by careful
quantitative analysis of the
                               whole five tons, which analysis we could

afford to make and did make very carefully.

       We produced, as nearly as practicable, three qualities of converted

metal, say A, with half per cent, of carbon, B, with one per cent., and

C, with one and a-half per cent. ; we also made pure iron upon which

we could absolutely rely. These four qualities, accurately analysed,

were kept in separate bins ; the analyst who gave the order to the

steel melter to make two or three tons of steel of any precise and

predetermined degree of carburation would, say for example, weigh

4l Ib. out of bin A, and put 8f Ib. from bin B into                it,thus making

                                                                                                 a
the 50 Ib. charge, always using the nearest of the three qualities

to the one required, and making                                    little milder or a little more
       it

                             a

                                              it

                                                                a
highly carburised as desired. Most minute differences could thus, at all

times, be made with unerring certainty by the simple fusion in

crucible of two metals, the carburation of which had, in each case, been

tested by careful analysis. The mixing of these accurately-ascertained

qualities in definite weights while in the granulated state resulted in

the production of quality the exact mean of the known constituents
of the two qualities mixed. It gave a more certain and
                                                                   a  more

accurate result than could possibly be obtained on the old system of

crucible steel-making, where judgment by the eye took the place of

accurate analysis and the weighing machine, as used in my system.

Hence       was an undeniable fact that we could, and did, produce

commercially crucible cast steel of great purity, and of any precise and

predetermined degree of carburation, with greater accuracy than was

obtained by the method employed to produce crucible steel in

Sheffield.
                             CHAPTER XVI

                                           BESSEMER STEEL GUNS

              course of events now brings me to an incident connected with

 I-*- Woolwich Arsenal, which would fain pass over in silence, but,

if history is to be written at all, the historian must speak the truth.
In 1859 the firm of Henry Bessemer and Company, of Sheffield, had

qualified themselves to receive proposals to tender to Woolwich Arsenal,
for the supply of steel for cutting tools, and on June 3rd of that year,
we tendered unsuccessfully, under a form of contract sent by the War
Office, at the same price as we were obtaining from several first-class
engineers namely, 42 per ton, the ordinary trade price in Sheffield
for such tool steel varying from 50 to 60 per ton. We tendered

again for another lot of tool steel on July 8th, at 40 to 42 per ton ;

again our offer was not accepted. We tendered also on September 5th,
at prices still lower, viz., from 32 to 40 per ton; and again, on
September 7th, for some bars at 40, and for some (the greater part)
at 32 per ton. But this low tender also failed to secure us the order,
and, as we could make the highest quality of tool steel by my process
from Swedish pig-iron at an extremely low cost, we were determined
on the next occasion to get the order, or know the reason why. On
December 7th, 1859, forms of tender were sent us for two different sizes of
steel bars, and we quoted as low as 20 per ton for each of them ; our
tender was then accepted for the first time, and we commenced at once to
make the steel. Bars of each quality were carefully tested by us in
our own works, so as to prevent the possibility of a single bar being sent
out of any but the very highest quality, my managing partner
personally taking charge of these special tests. This rigid inspection
at our works was considered by our firm to be absolutely necessary
in this case, because we felt assured that our former tender of 32 to 42
                        BESSEMER STEEL AT WOOLWICH                                217

was far below that of any Sheffield house, although it was not accepted ;

hence our belief that the steel about to be sent would undergo the most

severe and rigid tests.

      In due course the steel was delivered to the carriage department

at Woolwich Arsenal, as directed, but, after several days, we were

informed that it was useless, and that we must take it back. Now,

the conditions of the tender were such that the Government officials

were the sole judges of the fitness of the material, and had absolute

power of rejection if not satisfied with it. In case of the steel not

proving satisfactory, the Government had also power to purchase a
like quantity of any other manufacturer, and charge the difference in

price to the person whose steel was rejected. Thus the Government

could send back to us all the steel which had been tendered for at 20

per ton, and purchase a like quantity at 50 or 60, making our firm pay
Ithe difference of 30 or 40 a ton. Under these circumstances was
Idetermined to investigate this matter for myself.
                                                    accordingly went

down to the Arsenal, and was shown into the office of the head of the
Icarriage department.
                        asked him in what way the steel was defective.

Before replying, he got up from his chair, opened a drawer, and took
out ten or dozen " chipping chisels," which were made, as usual, out

of an octagon bar of steel known in the trade as in. "octagon chisel

steel." All but two of the chisels were broken they were very slender
                                   ;
                                             -JJ-

and delicate, and had been good deal punished by the prover's hammer.
                      II
Notwithstanding this, was much astonished at such result, and ona
                                   I
                                                               a
                                                                         is
attentively examining the fractured parts became convinced that they
were not made of the quality known as " chisel steel," which invariably

used for this purpose.           then looked over the written contract that

had been sent to us, and found that among the specified shapes and sizes

of steel bars therein described, there was not one single bar of octagon

steel.  I  handed the list to the gentleman who received me, and asked

him to point out octagon steel, which, of course, he could not do. In

order that there should be no possible mistake on this point, have
                                                                             FI
had the entry made by my clerk at the time, in his rough order book
                                                                               F
at Sheffield, photographed, as shown in Fig. 64, thus furnishing unques-
tionable evidence of the absence of any octagon bars in the contract.
218  HENRY BESSEMER
     X^V ysyC^,
                     ^eu<^ 4,
                                    sr

     '*-Tf&S^&0&-^

     FIG. 64. PARTICULARS OF TOOL STEEL SUPPLIED TO WOOLWICH, 1859
                 BESSEMER STEEL AT WOOLWICH                                                                            219

On my pointing out the absence of octagon steel in the contract, the

gentleman touched the bell, and told the messenger to send the store-

Ikeeper to him. On the arrival of this person, his chief said : " told

Iyou to make a dozen octagon chipping chisels, in order to test the
Bessemer steel, and now  find that we had not ordered any ; what
Idid you do ? " " Oh," said the man, " gave out one of the larger bars,

and had it drawn down to octagon, and brought you the chisels."

ljNow, the nearest bar in size in the whole list that could be made into
| -in. octagon bars was in cross-section 3 in. by  in., or more than six

ftimes the area of the in. octagon chisels made from
a                                                     and was, as

       it
                    it

                                  a
                                                             a;

                                                                   a
                                                                                        a it,

                                                                                     a it
                                                                                                it
the fractures showed, of much too hard and highly carburised quality

to be made into chipping chisels not to mention the damage

must have received from the excessive heating in      common black-

smith's forge. Instead of being tilted down to the proper size, as

in steel works,  was worked with smith's hammer by an ordinary

blacksmith, and not steelsmith  fact in itself enough to endanger

this highly carburised steel, which must not be overheated or "burnt."

Hence  must be clear that this so-called test of the quality of

Bessemer steel, supplied under this contract, was, even in the

case of chisel steel, no test at all of its quality. Under these

circumstances, any fair and impartial person would have apologised for

such a gross mistake and wholesale condemnation, and would have

said that the other bars should be carefully tested as to their

suitability for the several purposes for which they were required. But,

on the contrary, the chief, who never even pretended that any other

tests had been made, insisted on condemning the whole of the bars
                                "Isaid will take back the steel
embraced under this contract.
a
                       is

                          I

                                                                                                  :

                                                  aI
                                                                                     it
                                                                                                                 is ;
which you have power under the words of the contract to reject so

unfairly, and will wash my hands of Woolwich for all time but

let me tell you that, having condemned this steel,                                                                     your

duty to your employers to purchase an equal quantity of some other

manufacturer, and make our firm pay the 30 to 40 difference in

price. But this  just what you dare not do, because   should resist

such claim, and that would bring the question into Court of Law,

where your conduct would become known to the world." The whole
220                         HENRY BESSEMER

of this steel was returned to our Sheffield works. We were at that

time regularly supplying this kind of tool steel to the most eminent
engineers in this country, among whom may be mentioned Sir Joseph
Whitworth, Messrs. Sharp, Stewart and Co., Sir William Fairbairn,

Messrs. Beyer, Peacock and Co., etc., who paid us 42 per ton for the
same quality for which we had quoted 20 per ton in the Woolwich

contract, in order to force the Arsenal authorities to accept it. Every
bar of this steel, so shamefully rejected at Woolwich, was marked

in the centre by a special punch, and sent as required to the eminent
firms above referred to, and not one of the bars was ever returned to

us or complained of.                                                                of Bessemer steel at
                                                                                    the time when Colonel
      In contrast with this summary rejection

IWoolwich, may mention that we had, during

Eardley Wilmot was Superintendent of the Royal Gun Factory, supplied

him with tool steel, which had given him every satisfaction. Indeed,

he was so pleased with it that, during the discussion which followed

the reading of my paper on May 24th, 1859, before the Institution of
ICivil Engineers, he incidentally made the remarks which
                                                                                    reproduce

below from the printed Minutes of the Proceedings of the Institution.

He said :

     As regarded the steel, he had been using it for turning the outside of iron guns,

cutting off large shavings several inches in length, and he had fo\md none superior to

                            It was only necessary to witness the operation of the
a it,
                                   it
                                                                                 a
although much more costly.

manufacture by the Bessemer process, to be satisfied that the expense of converting the

pig iron into any of the products involved scarcely any cost beyond the labour, and that for

very short period of time. And, as far as the price went, Mr. Bessemer had offered

to supply such sizes as was worth his while to make, at the prices stated.

       So exceptionally heavy were the cuts and sizes of the shavings he
referred to, that he placed on the table box full of them, to show

their unusual character.

      In the latter part of the year 1859 important changes in the control

and management of the Arsenal took place, and on November 4th
Sir William Armstrong was appointed " Superintendent of the Royal

Gun Factory for Rifled Ordnance." It was on December 7th of the

same year that Henry Bessemer and Company, as one of the authorised
       BESSEMER STEEL FOR GUNS                          221

contractors to the Government, supplied a quantity of tool steel at the

low price of 20 a ton, which was summarily rejected under the

circumstances before described. It was quite clear to me that neither
II, nor my steel, was wanted at Woolwich, and
                                               made up my mind

to leave the place severely alone in future.

      In the year 1858 we were getting fairly into commercial working

at Sheffield, and on September 8th of that year we supplied a first

sample order of steel boiler-plates to Sir William Fairbairn, of Manchester.

     It was deemed desirable to communicate these facts to the world,

through the Institution of Civil Engineers, whose members could not fail to

be deeply interested in the production of a new kind of homogeneous cast

steel, having greater toughness and cohesive strength than the best wrought

iron, and at a cost considerably less than that of cast steel made by any

other known process. I, therefore, wrote a paper " On the Manufacture

of Malleable Iron and Steel," which was illustrated by many interesting

examples of the metal that had been subjected to various tests of the

Imost severe description. This paper submitted to the Council of the

Institution about the end of December, 1858. It was accepted, and

read at a crowded meeting on May 24th, 1859.

    INow, had no intention whatever to ask Sir William Armstrong, as

a favour to myself, to adopt and use this wonderfully tough and rapidly

produced metal, for the manufacture of gun-tubes, in lieu of the weaker,

and much more costly, coiled iron employed by him for that purpose.
IBut,
       felt that, notwithstanding the summary rejection of Bessemer

steel and Bessemer iron by Lord Herbert, it was a public duty which

I owed to my country to give him a further opportunity, both

of hearing and seeing what was daily being done with welded
Imasses of Bessemer iron and with Bessemer mild steel.
                                                        knew

that Sir William Armstrong had been, for several years, a member

of the Institution of Civil Engineers ; he was, when my paper was

accepted, also a Member of Council, and, therefore, was one of the

persons by whom all communications submitted to the Institution were

examined, criticised, and finally voted worthy or otherwise of being read

before a public meeting of their members, and of being published in their

IProceedings. In the ordinary course of events, my paper would, knew,
222  HENRY BESSEMER

be examined by Sir William Armstrong, and that this would be so

appeared to me the more certain, because the careful and punctual
secretary, Mr. Forrest, was in the habit of sending the actual paper
that was to be examined to the private residences of all Members of

Council who might be absent from the Council meetings. It was also

his custom to invite important persons, who were supposed to be specially
interested in the subject, to attend and take part in the discussion which

follows the reading. Here again it seemed certain, if everything else failed,

that Sir William Armstrong would be invited to come and join in the
discussion of a subject in which he, as a paid servant of the State, must, or

should, take the deepest interest. It was in this way that Colonel Eardley

Wilmot was invited, and was present during the reading of my paper. But
the one man in all Great Britain who was or who ought to have been

most deeply interested in the subject, was not present at this important

I Imeeting ; and thus lost the unique opportunity so much desired of

bringing before him, while in the presence of the most eminent engineers
of Great Britain, the proofs of the fitness of my metal for the construction
of ordnance. But, such was the impression made on the other members

Iof the Council of the Institution by the facts brought before them,

and by the marvellous proofs afforded by the specimens exhibited, of the
value of this new kind of mild steel for constructive purposes, that they
voted me the Telford gold medal ; later, they made me a member of the
Institution, and they also, " as the originator of the greatest improvement
in the Iron Manufacture of Great Britain during the preceding five years,"
presented me with the Howard Quinquennial Prize, a massive gold

cup, intrinsically worth 120 guineas. Finally, when advancing years
rendered my duties as a Member of Council too arduous, they further
conferred on me the great and distinguished position of Honorary

IMembership.
           will not trouble my readers with any lengthy abstracts from this
paper, but it may be of interest to show some important portions

of it. The following is one of the extracts referred to, which has been
reproduced from the report of my paper, and the discussion thereon,
printed by the Institution of Civil Engineers, and sent to all its

members.
                               BESSEMER IRON AND STEEL                                                                                 223

In the early part of this Paper it was shown that the process of puddling unavoidably

introduces into the metal more or less cinder, and other mechanically-mixed impurities ;

also, that the different degrees of refinement and decarbonization of the numerous lumps of

metal which compose a puddle ball, render the production of a homogeneous mass, by that

means, a desideratum not yet achieved.  It has likewise been pointed out how, in the

working of the other malleable metals, all these difficulties are avoided by casting the metal

in a fluid state into moulds.  Now this is precisely what the Bessemer process proposes to

is
                                  is,

                                                                    a
                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                            a
accomplish that  to bring malleable iron, or steel, into the same category with the other

malleable metals, and by its purification, in fluid state, to avoid the diffusion of cinder

throughout the mass; so that when cast into an ingot, or into                                                                  single homogeneous mass

of any desired form, or size,  metal of equal hardness in every part may be produced,

without the necessity of welding or joining of separate pieces. That this can be accomplished,

shown by the specimens exhibited. The iron bars of inches square, which have been bent

and doubled-up cold, the twisted bars, and the collapsed cylinders which do not split, but
Ifyield like copper to the blows of the hammer, prove this.
                                                                                               assurance be required, that

there are no hard ribs, or sand cracks, the examples of the malleable iron gun, or the iron

and steel cylinders may be taken. With reference to the tensile strength of iron bars, or

boiler plate, so made from English coke pig metal, the careful testing of plates made of

puddled iron, according to Mr. W. Fairbairn, has given an average of 45,300 Ibs. per

square inch for Staffordshire plates, 45,000 Ibs. for Derbyshire, and 57,120 Ibs. for Yorkshire

plates. Now, four samples of the Bessemer iron plate, tested at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich,

according to the report of Colonel Eardley Wilmot, gave an average of 68,314 Ibs., or

63,591 Ibs. as the least, and 73,100 Ibs. as the highest proof for boiler plates fths of an inch in

thickness.  Here, then,        result showing greater amount of tensile strength above Low
                          is

                             is
                                  a
                                                                   a
Moor, or Bowling iron boiler plates, than those plates possess above the ordinary quality

of Staffordshire plates.

      Here there proof that Bessemer iron plates, tested at Woolwich

Arsenal by Sir William Armstrong's immediate predecessor in office,

gave an average tensile strength of 68,314 Ib. per square inch = 304 tons,
quite five tons over the best Yorkshire plates. Also, the fact
                                                                                                                               a
demonstrated that this superior iron could be made from Swedish                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                            a
charcoal pig iron at about one-half the cost of Yorkshire iron bars, and
                                                                                                                                                     it
that        could be made with great rapidity into masses oi any form ol                                                                                         is
      it

          I

                                                                    a
                                                                                            :
several tons in weight without welding.

      Again quote from the paper

In order to show the extreme toughness of such iron, and to what                                                               strain  may be

subjected without bursting, several cast and hammered cylinders were placed cold under the

steam hammer, and were crushed down, without the least appearance of tearing the metal.

Now these cylinders were drawn from round cast-iron ingot, only in. larger in diameter

than the finished cylinder, and in the precise manner in which                                                                 gun should be treated.

They may, therefore, be considered as short sections of an ordinary 9-pounder field gun. Iron
224                                  HENRY BESSEMER

so made requires very little forging; indeed, the mere closing of the pores of the metal

seems all that is necessary. The tensile strength of the samples, as tested at the Royal

Arsenal, was 64,566 Ib. per square inch, while the tensile stress of pieces cut from the

Mersey gun gave a mean of 50,624 Ib. longitudinally, and 43,339 Ib. across the grain ; thus

showing a mean of 17,550 Ib. per square inch in favour of the Bessemer iron.

     If it be desired to produce ordnance by merely founding the metal, then the ordinary

casting process may be employed : with the simple difference that the iron, instead of

running direct from the melting furnace into the mould, must first be run into the converting

vessel, where in from ten to twenty minutes it will become steel, or malleable iron, as may

be desired ; and the casting may then take place in the ordinary way. The small piece of
ordnance exhibited will serve to illustrate this important manufacture, and is interesting in

consequence of its being the first gun that ever was made of malleable iron without a weld
or joint. The importance of this fact will be much enhanced when it is known that

conical masses of this pure tough metal, of from five to ten tons in weight, can be produced

at Woolwich at a cost not exceeding  6 12s. Od. per ton, inclusive of the cost of pig iron,

carriage, re-melting, waste in the process, labour, and engine power.

     It will be interesting to those who are watching the advancement of the new process to know

that it is already rapidly extending itself over Europe. The enterprising firm of Daniel Elfstand

and Company, of Edsken, who were the pioneers in Sweden, have now made several hundred

tons of excellent steel by the Bessemer process. Another large works has since started in their

immediate neighbourhood, and two other companies are making arrangements to use the process.

The authorities in Sweden have most fully investigated the whole process, and have pronounced
it perfect. The large steel circular saw-plate exhibited was made by Mr. Goranson, of Gefle, in

Sweden, the ingot being cast direct from the fluid metal, within fifteen minutes of its leaving the

blast furnace. In France, the process has been for some time carried on by the old-established

firm of James Jackson and Son, at their steel works, near Bordeaux. This firm was about to

go extensively into the manufacture of puddled steel, and indeed had already got a puddling

furnace erected and in active operation, when their attention was directed to the Bessemer

process. The apparatus for this was put up at their works last year, and they are now greatly

extending their field of operations by putting up more powerful apparatus at their blast furnaces

in the Landes. There are also in course of erection, four other blast furnaces in the South of

France, for the express purpose of carrying out the new process. The long and well-earned

reputation of the firm of James Jackson and Son is in itself a guarantee of the excellent quality

of the steel produced by this process. The French samples of bar steel exhibited were manu-

factured by this firm. Belgium is not much behind her neighbours in the race, as the process

is being put in operation at Liege. While in Sardinia preparations are being made to carry
it into effect, Russia has sent to London an engineer and a professor of chemistry to report

on the process, and Professor Miiller, of Vienna, and M. Dumas and others, from Paris, have

visited Sweden to inspect and report on the new system in that country.

      These facts will serve to show how, on the Continent of Europe,
the fame of this new metal was spreading, and its manufacture extending.

     It will be seen from the foregoing that Colonel Wilmot fully
                    STEEL-MAKING AT SHEFFIELD  225

Icorroborated what  have previously stated, and gave the results of

some experiments of his own with a mass of iron he happened to see

lying with other waste scrap at my works at Sheffield. This mass of iron

(see page 196 ante) he desired to be sent to Woolwich, and from it were
cut the two cylindrical pieces which he described to the meeting; he
proved that Bessemer pure iron, only slightly hammered, showed in the

proving-house a tenacity of 64,426 lb., or 28.76 tons per square inch.
       Another year or more slipped away, almost unnoticed in the

ardour and excitement created by the rapid development and progress of
my invention. Our own works were crammed with orders for locomotive

double-throw cranks, which had hitherto been exclusively made at
Lowmoor, or at some other of the justly-celebrated Yorkshire ironworks,

but which were now being constructed of Bessemer steel. We were also

busy with plain engine and carriage axles, marine engine and screw-

propeller shafts, steel guns and gun blocks, locomotive engine and
carriage tyres, etc. Our works were daily engaged in superseding
welded Lowmoor tyres, and we were turning out, as fast as the mills

could roll them, mild steel weldless tyre-hoops from 4 ft. 6 in. to 5 ft.

in diameter, to be shrunk on to locomotive engine driving-wheels, and

also 3 ft. tyres for carriage wheels, of which many thousands were

ceaselessly running on our railways.  All these hoops were tightly

shrunk on to the wheels with a firm grip, just in the same manner as

hoops are shrunk on to built-up guns. These thousands of hoops were

daily responsible for the lives of tens of thousands of passengers seated

immediately above them. Every train of twenty-five carriages would

have a hundred of these steel tyres supporting their heavy load of

wood and iron, and their still more valuable living freight, rushing over

the steel rails at a high speed, and tending, by their rolling motion and

heavy pressure at a single point of their circumference on the steel

rail, to become elongated and loosened from the wheel, a tendency

which this strong elastic steel most successfully resisted. It must be

borne in mind that the loosening of this firm grip on only one of these

hundred hoops, or the fracture of any one of them, might have

wrecked a whole train, and killed more people than the bursting of a

gun an instrument that may be required to do duty for a few hours,

                                                                                                                                                           GG
226                        HENRY BESSEMER

at intervals of many years, or, perhaps, never be used at all. That

these thousands of Bessemer steel tyres did not fail in constant

service, and did not lose their grip upon the wheels, furnished no

proof to those obtuse intellects who could only recognise the virtues
of welded iron. Bessemer steel hoops, so extensively used with the full
sanction of the eminent engineers of our British railways, found,

however, no favour at Woolwich or at Elswick. They were, nevertheless,

employed by Captain Blakeley, the original inventor of built-up guns,

and also by the Blakeley Ordnance Company of London, for the manu-

facture of built-up guns which were being made for Russia, and other foreign

governments, while Woolwich and Elswick were rapidly manufacturing

welded iron guns with welded iron hoops, for home use.
      As a practical proof of how far weldless steel tyres would resist

fracture under the most severe trials, a locomotive engine-tyre, turned

and finished, was placed up on edge under a steam hammer, and received

blow after blow until its two opposite sides touched each other, when

its elasticity again allowed it to spring back a few inches. This large

tyre was thus formed into a long flat loop (see Fig. 65, Plate XXVI., in

which its dimensions are indicated by the foot-rule lying in front of it).
With all this ill-usage it showed no sign of cracking or fracture. This

tyre has for the last thirty -five years been exhibited in South Kensington

Museum, and is undeniable evidence of the toughness and endurance of

Bessemer steel under the most violent and abnormal strains. It also affords

a good example of the tough mild steel manufactured at our Sheffield

works at that early date.

     In the summer of 1861, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers

held a provincial meeting at Sheffield, and, as a member of this Institution,

Iit was only natural that should read a paper on the occasion of their
Ivisit to the town where my steel works were located.
                                                       was still most

anxious that my own countrymen should use Bessemer steel for the

manufacture of ordnance : for this, as my readers are aware, was the
Iexpress purpose to which
                           had devoted myself for so long a period,

and striven so earnestly to accomplish.

    IThe fact that had succeeded in making a special mild steel, in

every way adapted for the purpose, was proved by a report of the
                              PLATE XXVI

                                       oo

                                                                         00

                          j

                                                                         H
                                                                        pq

H

                                                               p-
                                                      O

.o

 6
      GUN-MAKING AT SHEFFIELD                                                         227

Belgian Government, which had spontaneously applied to me to make

Ithem a trial gun, thirteen months before the date on which read my

paper before the Sheffield meeting : a meeting which was presided over

by Sir William Armstrong. This gun was made at our works, and
sent to the Fort, at Antwerp, on the 16th June, 1860, its receipt being

acknowledged in the following letter.

                                                                  Brussels,

                                                                  August 19th, 1860.

SIR,

      I have the honour to inform you that the conical steel forging, rough

from the forge, which was manufactured in your establishment, and of which you advised

the shipment in your letter (stated in the margin), was received by the Commander of
Artillery, in the Fort of Antwerp. Being submitted to the examination of a commission

composed of officers of the cannon foundry of Liege, it was found to weigh 840 kilos, (equal

16 cwt. 2 qrs. and 22 Ibs.), and to be of good quality of steel.

Be pleased, Sir, to accept the assurance of my distinguished consideration.

                                   (Signed) THE MINISTER OP WAR.

This gun-block was bored and finished under military inspection,

at Antwerp, and went through the regulation proofs in a perfectly

satisfactory manner. It was afterwards determined to bore it to a much

larger size, viz., 4.75 in. in diameter, suitable for 12-pounder spherical
shots, and to fire larger charges of powder and to increase the number

of shots, each of such additions being repeated three times, until the

gun should at last give way, the charges of powder rising from 2 Ib.

up to 6f Ib., and the shots from one to eight. On firing the second
round of eight shots the gun gave way, apparently by the over-riding

of the spherical shot.

    I have annexed an accurate scale engraving of the gun as altered

to a 4.75 in. bore, suitable for 12-pounder spherical shot (see Fig. 66,

Plate XXVI.). In re-boring, the gun was reduced to 9 cwt., only

about ten times the weight of the eight shot, the thickness of metal
Ifat the breech being 2f in., and
                                   in. at the muzzle.                        In fact, it was

little more than a mere gun lining, but it nevertheless afforded the

most incontestable proof of the extraordinary endurance of this metal

under conditions of extreme severity. The fact that the Belgian

Government should seek out a foreign manufacturer, and put this new
228  HENRY BESSEMER

material to the test, only makes it more extraordinary that our own
Government should have passed it by.

      Nor was this Belgian gun an isolated case, for, up to the date of

Iwhich am writing (Midsummer, 1861), several agents of foreign Govern-

ments had spontaneously applied to the Bessemer Steel Works, at Sheffield,
for steel guns. But our firm could not manufacture built-up guns with

a steel barrel or inner tube, because this would have manifestly been a
direct infringement of Captain Blakeley's patent of February, 1855; and
knowing that iron, in any welded form, would be vastly inferior to steel
for the inner tube of a gun, we declined to manufacture such an inferior

article, and confined ourselves to making simple solid-forged steel guns

                             FIG, 67. FORGED BESSEMER STEEL GUN WITH TEST PIECES

and gun-tubes. Up to this time we had 'supplied twenty-eight guns,
consisting of 12-, 18-, and 24-pounders, forged, and ready for the boring

mill, at 45 per ton, a price about three times their actual cost, but
still very considerably below that of crucible steel forgings.

    I may here mention that every gun, after being forged by our firm,

had its quality tested in the following simple and practical manner.
The gun when being forged had a part of both ends drawn down
under the hammer, into a flat bar of some 12 in. or 15 in. in length

and 3 in. wide by 2 in. in thickness this was our standard test. A
gun so forged is shown in the annexed engraving, Fig. 67. In this

illustration the view A shows the gun with these test pieces still
projecting from each end ; they were cut off and bent, when cold, into
            OFTHF

([ UNIVERSITY
                    OF
PLATE XXVII
                           GUN-MAKING AT SHEFFIELD                                        229

the form shown in c, while B shows the gun-block ready to be turned

and bored. A group of these test pieces is reproduced to a scale of
half the actual size in Fig. 68, Plate XXVII., and this engraving

prepared from a photograph clearly shows how wonderfully these

pieces bore the enormous strain due to the cold bending of so large

a mass, the metal in each case bulging out laterally on the inside of

the bend, and contracting in width on the outside of
                                                              a

                                                                                     it,
                                                                                                                      is
                                                                thus supplying

the material forming the greater length of the outer surface. Notwith-

standing this interchange of parts, not                         sign of tear or breaking

visible in any one of their sharply-defined angles.
      Mr. A. L. Holley's remarks on our steel guns, published in his

book on Ordnance in 1863, are subjoined, and form an independent

testimony to their value.

141. Bessemer Steel Guns. The Bessemer process of making steel direct from the ore, or

from pig-iron, promises to ameliorate the whole subject of Ordnance and engineering construction

in general, both as to quality and cost. This product has not yet been used for guns to any

great extent, although Mr. Krupp, the leading steel-maker, has introduced it. Captain Blakeley

and Mr. Whitworth have also experimented with            a it,and expressed their faith in its ultimate

adoption.  Messrs. John Brown
                        3               Co., Sheffield,       have made over 100 gun-forgings, some

of them weighing above               &                        of this steel. During the present year,
                        tons, from solid ingots               tons per week. With the two new con-

their production of Bessemer steel will exceed 400

verting vessels then in operation, solid ingots of 20 tons weight can be fabricated.
                                                                a                     large

                                                                      IA
establishment about to be started in London, with 50-ton hammer, and capacity to pour
30-ton ingots, will afford the best possible facilities for the development of this process.

As point of special interest in connection with the paper was
           a

             I
going to read at the Sheffield meeting of the Institution of Mechanical

Engineers,      determined to take strict account of the time occupied

in making, at my steel works, an 18-pounder gun, and to put the

finished weapon on the table in front of the Presidential chair. By

this means the Superintendent of the Koyal Gun Factory at Woolwich

could not help being placed in possession of all the facts and arguments

was going to put forward in my paper, and which intended should
I
                                                 I

                                                       I
be illustrated with plenty of actual specimens.                 have reproduced here

pages 144 and 145 from the published Proceedings for 1861 of the

Institution of Mechanical Engineers, in order to show what words
Sir William Armstrong actually heard, and what facts were brought
230                HENRY BESSEMER

to his knowledge    at that meeting, and   also  what mechanical     proofs
of the marvellous  toughness of Bessemer  mild   steel were placed  on the
                   in front of him.
table immediately

        The special aim of the author during the first year of his labours, which throughout

the last six years has never been lost sight of, was the production of a malleable metal
peculiarly suitable for the manufacture of ordnance. By means of the process that has been
described solid blocks of malleable cast steel may be made of any required size from 1 to 20
or 30 tons weight, with a degree of rapidity and cheapness previously unknown. The metal

can also with the utmost facility be made of any amount of carburation and tensile strength
that may be found most desirable : commencing at the top of the scale with a quality of
steel that is too hard to bore and too brittle to use for ordnance, it can with ease and

certainty be made to pass from that degree of hardness by almost imperceptible gradations
downwards towards malleable iron, becoming at every stage of decarburation more easy to
work and more and more tough and pliable, until it becomes at last pure decarbonised iron,
possessing a copper-like degree of toughness not found in any iron produced by puddling.
Between these extremes of temper the metal most suitable for ordnance must be found ; and all

qualities are equally cheap and easy of production.
       From the practice now acquired in forging cast steel ordnance at the author's works in

Sheffield it has been found that the most satisfactory results are obtained with metal of the
same soft description as that employed for making piston rods. With this degree of toughness
the bursting of the gun becomes almost impossible, its power of resisting a tensile strain being
at least 15 tons per square inch greater than that of the best English bar iron. Every gun
before leaving the works has a piece cut off the end, which is roughly forged into a bar of
2 inches by 3 inches section, and bent cold under the hammer in order to show the state
of the metal after forging. Several test bars cut from the ends of guns recently forged are

exhibited.
        The power of this metal to resist a sudden and powerful strain is well illustrated by the

piece of gun muzzle now shown, which is one of several tubular pieces that were subjected
to a sudden crushing force at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich, under the direction of Colonel
Wilmot ; the pieces were laid on the anvil block in a perfectly cold state, and were crushed
flat by the falling of the steam hammer, but none of them exhibited any signs of fracture
when so tested. Probably the best proof of the power of the metal to resist a sudden
violent strain was afforded by some experiments made at Liege by order of the Belgian
government, who had one of these guns bored for a 12 Ibs. spherical shot of 4f inches
diameter, and made so thin as to weigh only 9 cwts. This gun was fired with increasing
charges of powder and an additional shot after each three discharges, until it reached a

maximum of 6| Ibs. of powder and eight shots of 12 Ibs. each or 96 Ibs. of shot, the shots
being thus equal to about one tenth of the weight of the gun. It stood this heavy charge

twice and then gave way at about 40 inches from the muzzle, probably owing to the
jamming of the shots. The employment of guns so excessively light and charges so extremely
heavy would, of course, never be attempted in practice.

        Some idea of the facility of this mode of making cast steel ordnance is afforded by
the time occupied in the fabrication of the 18 pounder gun now exhibited, which was made
            GUN-MAKING AT SHEFFIELD                       231

in the author's presence for his experiments on gunnery.  The melted pig iron was tapped

from the reverberatory furnace at 11.20 A.M., and converted into cast steel in 30 minutes;

the ingot was cast in an iron mould 16 inches square by 4 feet long, and was forged while

still hot from the casting operation.  By this mode of treating the ingots their central

parts are sufficiently soft to receive the full effect of the hammer. At 7 P.M. the forging

was completed and the gun ready for the boring mill.

The erection of the necessary apparatus for the production of steel by this process, on a

scale capable of converting from crude iron enough steel to make forty of such gun blocks per
day, will not exceed a cost of 5000, including the blast engine; hence the author cannot

but feel that his labours in this direction have been crowned with entire success : the great

rapidity of production, the cheapness of the material, and its strength and durability, all
adapt it for the construction of every species of ordnance.

      Sir William Armstong had thus another opportunity of seeing and
trying, if he chose to do so, a quality of steel which he himself told

the meeting that he had never tried ; a kind of steel that for constructive

purposes had attracted the serious attention of the most- eminent

engineers in every country of Europe ; a kind of steel invented and

perfected expressly for the manufacture of ordnance ; a kind of steel that

Iwas much sought after abroad for military purposes, and from which
     had, up to that period, made twenty - eight guns for foreign

governments ; a kind of steel that could be made in masses of 5 to

10 tons in less than half an hour, at a cost of 10 per ton, if

made from pure Swedish charcoal pig-iron. These important facts were

not new facts they were known to thousands of people. But this was

the one opportunity that was left, after many others had failed, when

Iby force of circumstances, had Sir William Armstrong before me face
Ito face, and also in the presence of a public audience ; and there made

him look at these things, and hear my statements, which were backed

with substantial proofs on the table before him, such as could not be

denied or set down as exaggerations. But my efforts were again entirely

fruitless.

In the early days of the Bessemer steel manufacture, many persons

who had no love for steel, and saw in it a most formidable rival to iron,

had with much perverted ingenuity raised a bogey to scare and alarm

the uninitiated. They asserted that although many splendid specimens

of steel were produced, the metal was very uncertain in its quality,

                                                      as had the fault of failing
and reliance could not be placed on    it,
                                                it
232               HENRY BESSEMER

unexpectedly. Like all other trade prejudices, or mere creations of the

imagination, this only required looking at steadily in open day, and in

the light of well-ascertained commercial facts, to show how hollow and

without foundation it really was. In fact, this crusade against steel was

entirely unsuccessful in influencing engineers who took the trouble to

inquire into the real facts. It did not prevent the use of thousands

of steel railway tyres, which, by their great superiority, rapidly dis-
placed the Lowmoor welded tyres previously almost exclusively relied on.

It did not prevent hundreds of steam boilers being made of Bessemer

steel for private establishments, nor did it stand in the way of

our locomotive engine-boilers being made of this material, in place of
the high-class Yorkshire iron previously used for that purpose. Those
clever people who set up this bogey of " uncertainty " in the quality
of steel, simply for self -protection, dared not assert that occasional

bars of bad iron were unknown in commerce.         The same persons

who so strenuously advocated the building up of heavy masses of

wrought - iron could not pretend that the welding of many parts to
Itform a whole was exempt from uncertainty and failure.
                                                         was even

then a well-known fact that the welding of large masses of wrought

iron involved more risk and uncertainty in its results than any other

of the processes used in the manufacture of iron.

       The question of the uncertainty in quality of the Bessemer mild cast
steel simply resolved itself into a question of cost, because the quality

was easily ascertainable in the earliest stages of its manufacture, and

thus the loss of working up bad material into a costly finished article
                               ITo show this fact,
could be most easily avoided.                       will take as an

example the production of a Bessemer steel gun-tube, suitable for a
40-pounder gun of 4.75 in. calibre. Such a forging would simply be a plain

solid steel cylinder, 8 in. in diameter and 10 ft. long, weighing 15 cwt.

and 20 lb., and, with a flat test piece formed on each end, it would
Aweigh 15|- cwt.
                  10-ton converter would cast eleven ingots of 1 ft.

square, weighing 18J cwt. each, and if 3 cwt. were cut off the top end

of each of these ingots to ensure absolute soundness of the part

used, we should then have the requisite weight in each ingot to make

the gun-tube, and 3 cwt. of scrap metal worth something, but which
                            COST OF BESSEMER STEEL                                                 233

may be discarded in this case. Now, if this forging, when tested by

bending the flat bars formed at each end for analysis, should turn out

not to be of the precise standard quality for use as a gun-tube, let

us see what would be the loss. The highest quality of Swedish

charcoal pig-iron would be used, costing from 6 10s. to 7 per ton

      7),
                             a
                                                                                            a
(say          and with small quantity of ferro -manganese, the 10 tons of

steel ingots would not cost 10 per ton, and could be utilised for engine

or tender axles, steam engine shafts, piston rods, plates or other articles.

As the ingots were made of this pure Swedish iron, they could be

sold for more than than their prime cost, at                                                   time when steel axles

and engine shafts, made from British iron smelted with coke, were sold

at 16 to 20 per ton. But suppose, for the sake of argument, and to

give no excuse for rejecting these figures, that 20 per cent, reduction was

necessary to ensure the ready sale of the ingots, there would then be a loss

of 20 on the 10 tons. Now, all experience showed that not one out of

every ten charges converted was made of the wrong quality, and
                                                                                               a
almost inconceivable that converting-house could be so grossly mis-                                   8
                            a
                                                                                                              it
                                          it
                                                                                                                        is
managed as to make one charge out of every five of the wrong quality.

But  if       had been so mismanaged,         would simply have diminished the

output of the converting house 20 per cent. and atit                                           period when
                                              ;
             a
railway bars made from British coke-iron were selling at 12 per ton,

such Swedish steel ingots would surely have realised                                           per ton,

entailing loss of  2  on one-fifth of the steel made, thus bringing the

cost per ton of ingots up from 10 to 10 10s. per ton.

      It must be borne in mind that this particular manufacture of

Bessemer steel had one most important element of certainty as to its

composition or quality not possessed by any other iron or steel known

in commerce at that period, viz., the contents of the converter when

poured into the casting ladle, and well stirred by the revolving agitator,

would cast ten separate ingots of ton weight each that were absolutely
                            :a
identical in quality, so that after testing one of them, the other nine

could be used with certainty. This absolute identity in quality was

unattainable by any other system a fact which none of those persons

who watched with dismay the daily encroachment of steel on the domain

of iron were able to deny.

                                                                                               HH
234                           HENRY BESSEMER

     The 18-pounder gun exhibited on the occasion of Sir William Arm-

strong's visit to Sheffield sufficed to show that in the short period of eight

hours a gun-bock of forged steel could be obtained from pig-iron. The

gun-ends bent cold, which were placed on the table to illustrate rny paper,

bore testimony to the quality and toughness of the steel of which this
Igun, and many others, had been made. Some of these
Idealt with, and                                          have already-

XXVIIIPlates      have selected for illustration, in Figs. 69 and 70,
Ithe number   and XXIX, two more striking specimens from among

            displayed.

     Month after month rolled on, and no application came from Woolwich

for any of the Bessemer steel, which Sir William Armstrong admitted

he had never tried for guns. Nevertheless, we continued making guns

to go abroad.
       The managers of the International Exhibition of 1862, fully appre-

ciating the importance of this new steel process, allotted me a very large

space, measuring no less than 35 ft. by 35 ft., equal to 1225 square
Afeet area, with a free passage 8 ft. wide all round it.
                                                          photographic
reproduction of my exhibit is given in Fig. 71, Plate XXX ; it was

taken from an imperfect print made in the dark days near the close

of the Exhibition. It will be seen, however, that on a pedestal in front

of the central case is a rough forging of a 24-pounder gun with trunnions

formed out of the solid; inside the case is a finished 18-pounder gun, a

large and massive gun-hoop, etc., etc. There were also shown an

embossed steel shield, a star formed of bayonets, a group of revolvers,

cavalry swords and sheaths, military rifles, projectiles, a model breech-

loader, etc. On the external counter was placed a 4-inch diameter bright

steel shaft, 35 ft. long, in one piece, steel hydraulic press cylinders,

railway axles and carriage and engine tyres, a circular saw, 7 ft. in

diameter, every size of steel wire for ropes, steel bars and rods of all

sizes, and, in fact, an immense number of other interesting objects that

would fill a long catalogue.

     The enumeration of these objects may seem commonplace enough

at the present day, but at that time they were undoubtedly marvellous

industrial results, and an immense excitement was caused by this display

of the new steel, which attracted engineers, ironmasters, and steel manu-
PLATE XXVIII
   or THE

DIVERSITY
PLATE XXIX
PLATE XXX

                       Col

                               X)

                    ft

                               cHe
fi ^
THE BESSEMER PATENTS                                           235

Ifacturers from every part of Europe and America. Indeed, exhibited

beautiful specimens of steel made, under my patents, both in France and

in Sweden.

    I cannot refrain from comparing the small effect which my exhibit

made upon the stolid inertness and indifference ot the War Office,

with the results it produced on the active mind and business instincts

of one of the most important and most intelligent Lancashire engineers,
Ian employer ot some 5000 workmen.
                                    refer to the late John

Platt, M.P. for Oldham, where his large works were situated. This

successful engineer visited the Exhibition on the opening day, and at

once grasped the importance of my steel process from an engineering
point of view ; he pointed out its value to some of the heads of depart-

ments in his own works, who made the same high estimate. Mr. Platt,

on the fourth or fifth day after the opening of the Exhibition, had a

long interview with me, and said that he himself, and nine of his immediate

friends and connections, wished to join in the purchase of one-fourth

Ishare of my patent. It was very natural that should entertain an

offer to recoup me for my large expenditure, and at the same time to

afford a handsome profit, thus avoiding some of the risks to which all patent

Iproperty is subject. But had so strong a faith in the great future of
Imy invention a faith based on proved facts that felt bound to decline
Ihis offer, as desired myself and my friend and partner, Robert Longsdon,

to retain the absolute control of the patents, and thus be able at any time

Ito raise or lower my royalties as thought best. Mr. Platt, however,

approached me again on the subject a few days later, saying that he and

his friends were prepared to waive all right to control the patents so long as

I Iretained one half, trusting that in the interests of that half should

do what was best for myself, and consequently what was best for them.

This proposal quite met with my approval, in principle ; that
a                                                              was

                                         is,I
willing to enter into bond with these gentlemen to hand over to them

five shillings out of every pound paid to me by way of royalty by my

licensees, the patents, price of royalties, etc., being governed by myself

and my partner, Longsdon, just as though no such bond were in existence.

     It therefore became only a question what the purchase price should

be. To fix this, these ten gentlemen met us by appointment at the
236                HENRY BESSEMER

Victoria Hotel, Westminster, about ten days after the opening of the

Exhibition. Mr. Longsdon left this delicate negotiation entirely to me,

Iand at the meeting pointed out the peculiar difficulties we had met

to discuss. The thing to be purchased could neither be measured nor

weighed ; there was no analogous case to use as a guide or precedent ;

the patents might bring in a very large sum of money, or a

quibble of the law, or some other invention, might render them of little

Ivalue. Thus had to propose a sum which might fairly be estimated

as a very profitable purchase for them, if all went well. At the same
Itime was to realise a considerable present profit, while my future
Iaction was wholly untrammelled, as my partner and
                                                    still retained

three-fourths of the whole property intact. Having thus briefly reviewed
Ithe position, said : "Gentlemen, we have thought this matter thoroughly
Iover, and
            have come to a fixed resolution to accept a certain sum

in cash for this one-fourth part of the proceeds of my invention ; or,
I Iotherwise, will keep the whole and run my course uninsured.
                                                                must
Itherefore beg you to give me a distinct " Yes " or " No " to my offer.

cannot haggle, for no one can demonstrate it is worth so much more
Ior so much less.
                   have fixed on an easily divisible sum among ten
Igentlemen, which has all the advantages of round numbers.
                                                                have

fixed on 50,000 as the purchase price." Mr. Platt, who occupied the

chair, said : " We have heard your definite proposal, and if you will be

so good as to go into the adjoining room for a few minutes, we will

discuss your proposition, and give you a reply."

    I then left the meeting ; after a lapse of not more than ten
Iminutes was called back, when the chairman said they had talked

the matter over, and had unanimously agreed to accept my offer.

      In the course of a few days, a formal and satisfactory document

was prepared by the joint industry of the solicitors on both sides, and

IMr. Longsdon and were invited to dine with Mr. Platt and his friends

at the Queen's Hotel, Manchester. This was about three weeks after
the opening of the Exhibition. We had a very pleasant and friendly

dinner ; we were all mutually pleased with our bargains, and in a

bumper the company drank to the success of the new steel process, and
Ilong life to the inventor, a toast to which
                                              had ,the pleasure of
THE BESSEMER PATENTS  237

responding. Then came the formal reading of the bond, and its sig-
nature, after which there was still another interesting ceremony, which
was performed in a genuine Lancashire fashion, each gentleman producing
from the depth of his pocket a neat little roll of Bank of England
notes of the value of 5,000, which was handed to us in the proportion
of our respective shares, viz., 40,000 to myself and 10,000 to my

partner Longsdon. The meeting then broke up in a most cordial manner,

and the friendly feeling thus inaugurated was never for one moment
clouded by a single expression of dissent or dissatisfaction in the whole

Iten years of our business intercourse, during which time had the great

pleasure of handing over to my friends their 5s. in the , amounting
on the whole to something over 260,000. As a further testimonial
of our mutual friendship and regard, Mr. Platt presented to Lady
Bessemer, in his name and those of our Manchester friends, a

portrait of myself painted by Lehmann, and exhibited in the Royal

Academy.

    I have mentioned these facts because it is almost impossible to

conceive higher testimony to the value of my processes than this
purchase of a share of the invention with all its risks ; a testimony
which was justified by the results obtained, while our War Office
officials did not venture to purchase even a few ingots of our steel
sufficient to make half a dozen 40-pounder gun-tubes.

     At last there came a time when the British Government aban-

doned welded-up iron gun-tubes, and they and Sir William Armstrong

parted company (on February 5th, 1863), the Government paying the
Elswick Ordnance Company 65,534 4s. as compensation for breaking
the contract with that Company, as well as paying the other sums
which are given at page 5 of the Report of the Select Committee on

Ordnance, ordered by the House of Commons to be printed, July 23rd,

1863. The following copy taken from that Report accurately gives these

amounts.

       The whole supply of Armstrong guns and projectiles has been obtained from the Royal
Arsenal at Woolwich and the Elswick Ordnance Factory.

                 1st. The sum of 965,117Z. 9s. Id. has been paid to the Elswick Ordnance Company
           for articles supplied.
238  HENRY BESSEMER

            2nd. After giving credit for the value of plant and stores received from the Company,
     a sum of 65,534f. 4*. has been paid to the Elswick Ordnance Company as compensation
     for terminating the contract.

            3rd. The outstanding liabilities of the War Office to the Elswick Ordnance Company,
     for articles ordered, amounted on the 7th May last to the sum of 37,143?. 2s. IQd.
     The whole of these payments and liabilities amounts to the sum of 1,067,794?. 16s. 5d.

            4th. The sum of 1,471,753?. Is. 3d. has been expended in the three manufacturing
     departments at Woolwich on the Armstrong guns, ammunition, and carriages, making
     altogether a grand total of 2,539,5 47 J. 17s. 8d.

     On May 4th, 1862, Sir William Armstrong was examined by the

Select Committee on Ordnance, on which occasion the Right Hon.

William Monsell occupied the chair ; in reply to his question, No.
3163, Sir William Armstrong gave a somewhat lengthy description of
his system of making guns of coiled iron tubes, etc. He also gave his
reasons for not using steel instead of iron, which he admitted was too
soft for that purpose.

      The reason which Sir William Armstrong gave to the Ordnance

Committee for not using the superior metal quite astounded me when
I Isaw the printed report of his evidence before that Committee.
                                                                              read

it over and over again, each time with increasing astonishment ; a feeling

Iwhich will, doubt not, be shared by every person who has read the

preceding pages.

      The three quotations herewith reproduced are part of Sir William

Armstrong's evidence, as printed in the Report of the Select Committee

of the House of Commons, 1863.

     I IFrom the very first saw, and still feel, that steel is the proper metal for the barrel

of a gun, if it can be obtained, and my only reason for not persevering in the use of steel

was the difficulty of getting it of suitable quality. There can be no question that wrought
iron is too soft, and that brass is still more objectionable than wrought iron, and if we can

only obtain, with certainty and uniformity, steel of the proper quality, there can be no question

as to the expediency of using it.                                       you, of " the gun witli the

    I5004. Then, in speaking in the answer to which have referred       Ibetween the two guns ?

barrel of steel," you did not intend to rely on that as the difference

merely stated it as the fact. We could not get steel suitable for the barrels ; the steel was not
I I Ito be had ; would have used it without hesitation if could have got it.
                                                                              am quite sure

that no patent Captain Blakeley held would have been adequate to prevent my using steel.

    I5007. Then am right in inferring, that your system of construction " as it was then and is

now," involved an internal lining of steel, with twisted cylinders of wrought-iron tightly con-
                                  BESSEMER STEEL FOR GUNS         239

I Itracted ? When the steel is to be obtained.
                                  do not think can possibly be more explicit than
I Ihave been already ; have stated that if the steel can be obtained, it is unquestionably the best

material, and it is the proper mode of construction ; but if steel cannot be obtained, the alternative

is to use coils for the barrels.

IIt was only natural that should be astonished at such a declaration,
Ifor could not forget the numerous proofs of the fitness of Bessemer
Imild steel, which
                                  had given to Sir William Armstrong's immediate
Ipredecessor, Colonel Wilmot, at Woolwich ; nor could forget the display
I had made of crushed gun-tubes, the malleable iron gun produced, in

one piece without weld or joint, and other examples of steel, on the

occasion of the reading of my Paper on the manufacture of iron and

steel, at the Institution of Civil Engineers ; to say nothing of the indis-

putable proofs of the suitability of Bessemer mild steel for the manufacture

of ordnance, brought before the Institution of Mechanical Engineers at

their meeting at Sheffield, on July 31st, 1861.

With regard to the reasons assigned by Sir William Armstrong, in

his evidence before the Ordnance Select Committee, for persisting in

Ithe use of welded-iron gun-tubes, must remain absolutely silent ; such

admissions and declarations as he there made do not admit of discussion,
Iand hence
            dismiss for ever this unsatisfactory episode in the long
Istruggle had maintained to induce the British Government to avail

themselves of the immense advantages which my invention offered.
IIn closing this portion of my history,
                                                           have the satisfaction of
Ifeeling that have done my duty to my country, untainted by personal
Iand selfish motives ; and in this hard struggle have had the satisfaction

of seeing the survival of the fittest successfully demonstrated by the

universal acceptance of mild cast steel for the construction of ordnance.
                        CHAPTER XVII

CAST STEEL FOR SHIPBUILDING

A MONG the almost endless variety of useful purposes to which

**> Bessemer mild cast steel has been applied, there is none more

important than its employment in the construction of steam ships for

the conveyance of passengers and merchandise, and also of ships of war

and fast cruisers. The great strength of this material, as compared

with the best brands of iron ; its even and homogenous character ; its
great power of elongation before rupture ; and its unequalled amount of

elasticity under severe strains ; all combine to form a material not only

admirably adapted for the plates, beams, and angles of the ship itself,

but equally suitable for the construction of her masts and spars, her

boilers and her machinery ; and for the still more important manufacture

of the heavy armour-plates necessary to protect ships of war from the

assaults of the enemy.
IFrom a very early period
                           had become deeply impressed  with

the importance of the application of my new steel to shipbuilding, and

my first impulse was naturally to try and force my own conviction
on the British Admiralty, and induce them to employ it in the con-

struction of ships of war. But the remembrance of my treatment at

IWoolwich came upon me as a warning, for there had given, at much

cost and labour to myself, the most irrefutable proofs of the perfect

applicability of my mild steel to the manufacture of ordnance, and all

these proofs had been overlooked and thrown aside by the Minister of

War in favour of an inferior substitute for steel. This experience deter-

mined me not to be foiled a second time by attempting to convince
the " How-not-to-do-it " Government official. 1 therefore preferred to

await the more certain and -reliable action of mercantile instinct.

IPrivate shipbuilders, had no doubt, would soon find out the merits
BESSEMER STEEL FOR BOILER PLATES                       241

Iof steel, and feel a personal interest in its adoption. Boiler-makers,

also felt assured, would recognise its value, and use it instead of iron,

many years before the Admiralty officials would wake up and become

conscious of the advantages it possessed over the weaker material. Nor

Idid have long to wait for the verdict of practical men on the value

of Bessemer mild cast-steel plates, as applied to the construction of

steam boilers ; an application which in itself is a sufficient guarantee of

their high quality, and their superiority over plates made of the highest

brands of British iron. Every person connected with the iron trade

is well aware that the articles known to the trade as boiler-plates

are superior in quality to those known as ship-plates ; in fact, iron

ships were never built with the high-class iron used for boilers.

    I have already stated that, on the occasion of the Institution of

Mechanical Engineers holding one of their annual meetings at Sheffield,

Iin July, 1861, under the presidency of Sir William Armstrong, read a
paper on " The Manufacture of Cast Steel and its Application to Con-
Istructive Purposes."
                       now refer again to that paper, simply to quote

a few lines from the speeches made in its discussion, by two eminent

practical Lancashire engineers, in order to show what had been done

up to that early date in the application of the new steel to the construc-

tion of steam boilers. This discussion, be it observed, took place no

less than fourteen years prior to the date on which Sir Nathaniel

Barnaby, then the Chief Naval Architect at the Admiralty, read

his paper before the Institution of Naval Architects, in which he

criticised adversely the use of Bessemer steel plates for shipbuilding and

boiler-making. Hence it will be interesting to see how far this material

had already been employed for boiler-making.

     At this meeting of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers above

referred to, Mr. Daniel Adamson,* the well-known engineer and manu-
facturer of steam boilers, whose works were at Hyde, near Manchester,

exhibited some beautiful specimens of deep and difficult flanging in
some fire-boxes for locomotive boilers. Mr. Adamson said he had

already used 200 tons of boiler-plates made from the new steel, and

                       * Died January 13th, 1890.  II
242  HENRY BESSEMER

was about to procure a further supply of 70 tons. He found the
metal of excellent quality, and of regular character throughout, and
it was an admirable material for working. The flanged fire-box plates
shown were duplicates of a number that he had used in the manu-

facture of boilers for very high pressure, with the most satisfactory
results. The metal flanged beautifully, and was like copper in this
respect,* but with the advantage that it was not so liable as copper
to be damaged by overheating. He could fully confirm the statements
given as to its strength, having tested it severely. As a precaution
every plate had been ordered with a 1-in. margin all round, which
was sheared off, and bent double, as a test of the quality of the plate.
The metal was found to stand this test well, and bent double, like the

specimens exhibited, without cracking at any part of the surface.
       The other engineer referred to, who took part in the discussion of

my paper, was Mr. William Richardson, the active practical partner
in the firm of Messrs. John Platt and Company, Engineers, Oldham,
in which firm Mr. Richardson had, for over twenty years, the direction
and supervision of some five thousand workmen. In the course of the
discussion on my paper, Mr. Richardson said, " He had made trial
of the Bessemer steel plates for some time in boilers at Messrs. Platt's
works at Oldham, where, some years ago, a higher pressure of steam

was adopted than was then usual. At that time they frequently found

distress at the joints of the boilers, and had adopted double riveting ;
the furnace plates were frequently blistered, though of a good make
of iron. Subsequently three boilers were made of plates of ' homogeneous

metal/t which had been at work three years, but since the Bessemer
steel had been produced at a cheaper rate and equally reliable in strength
and quality, they had used it extensively, and had now six boilers con-
structed of the new plates. They had no more trouble from blistered

plates and strained joints, while a great saving was effected, owing to
the reduced thickness of the metal requiring less fuel to produce the

       * Copper is thus frequently referred to by metallurgists as an example of extreme

toughness.

     t A beautifully tough, but very expensive kind of iron, made of charcoal bar-iron melted

in crucibles, and first introduced by Messrs Howell and Company, of Sheffield.
BESSEMER STEEL FOR BOILER PLATES                                  243

same heating power. * * * They had had only two years' experience of
the new plates, but during that time the results had proved thoroughly

satisfactory."

      This latter remark of Mr. Richardson shows the high opinion
formed, from personal observation, of the new steel, at least two years
prior to the date at which it was spoken. Thus, as far back as July,
1859, Mr. Richardson had erected, at the works of Messrs. John Platt,
of Oldham, no fewer than six Bessemer steel boilers, of 6 ft. 6 in. in

diameter by 30 ft. in length, each having one flue-tube of 3 ft. 10 in. in
diameter, with plates $ in. thick, and working at a pressure of 85 Ib.
per square inch.

       These facts will serve to show the high reputation acquired by these

mild cast-steel plates, even at this early period : a reputation that steadily
increased throughout the country, and which, in the early part of 1863,
had so fully convinced the firm of Messrs. Jones, Quiggins, and Company,
shipbuilders, of Liverpool, of the suitability of steel as a shipbuilding

material, that they determined to put it to a practical test by building a
small steam-ship. For this vessel the firm of Henry Bessemer and
Company, of Sheffield, produced the steel, which was afterwards rolled
by Messrs. Atkins and Company, of Sheffield, this being the first of

many extensive orders given us by this enterprising firm for the Bessemer

mild cast-steel ship-plates.

    I am indebted to the Chief Surveyor of Lloyd's for the following

list of Bessemer steel ships, classed by them during the years 1863,

1864 and 1865.

Name of Vessel.                                   Tonnage.             Built in

Screw steam-ship, "Pelican" ... ... ...                329  ... 1863
                                                       325  ... 1863
Screw steam-ship, "Banshee" ... ... ...                330  ... 1864
                                                       377  ... 1863
Screw steam-ship, "Annie"      ...   ...    ...     1,251   ... 1864
                                                    1,000   ... 1864
Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Cuxhaven"  ...    ...        467  ... 1864
Sailing-ship, " Clytemnestra"        ...    ...        637  ... 1864
                               ...          ...        637  ... 1864
                                                       289  ... 1864
Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Kio de la Plata"             536  ... 1864

Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Secret"    ... ...

Screw steam-ship, "Susan Bernie" ... ...

Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Banshee"   ...    ...

Screw steam-ship, "Tartar"     ...   ...    ...

Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Villa de Buenos Ayres"

                                                            S/Tv
244                              HENRY BESSEMER

     Name of Vessel.                                        Tonnage.             Built in

     Sailing-ship, "The Alca"                                  1,283  ... 1864
                                                 ... 1,095            ... 1863
     Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Isabel"   ...     ... 1,095            ... 1865
                                                 ... 410              ... 1865
     Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Curlew"   ...     ... 184              ... 1865
                                                 ... 1,622            ... 1865
     Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Plover"   ...     ... 1622             ... 1865

     Screw steam-ship, "Soudan"  ...     ...

     Paddle-wheel steam-ship, "Midland"  ...

     Paddle-wheel steam-ship, " Great Northern"

     At the time when the " Clytemnestra," a steam sailing-ship of

1,251 tons, was in course of construction, it was found by the builders

Ithat want of capital would prevent it being finished, and result in the
shutting-up of the shipyard.             was so anxious that the application of
Imy new steel to shipbuilding should not receive a sudden check, that

was induced to lend the firm 10,000, to put their financial affairs in

order. This, however, did not effect the desired object, and, unfortunately

for me, the prior claims of secured creditors converted my loan into an
Itabsolute loss.
                  had, however, one good effect ; it enabled the firm

to continue for a while ; and by the end of 1865 no less than eighteen

steel ships, aggregating 13,489 tons, had been built of Bessemer steel,

classed at Lloyd's, and duly placed on the Register. Every person con-

nected with shipping is fully aware that the careful examination of Lloyd's

experienced surveyors is an absolute guarantee of the strength and

structural good qualities of all ships passed by them. But these steel

ships had more than the ordinary credit of going through this ordeal,

for, on a thorough investigation of the whole subject, Lloyd's surveyors

became so satisfied of the much greater strength and reliability of

Bessemer steel, compared with ordinary commercial iron ship plates, that

they considered it unnecessary for shipbuilders to use the same thickness

of steel that was required for iron ; therefore, they permitted a reduction

of 20 per cent, to be made in the weight of steel used in the con-

struction of every steel ship : a concession of vast importance for high

speed or great carrying capacity. Thus, if a ship of certain size and form

would require say, 1,000 tons of iron for the construction of its frames

and shell, Lloyd's would give the same class to a steel ship of precisely

the same form and dimensions, containing only 800 tons of steel, and

therefore capable of carrying 200 tons more merchandise than could an
                            STEEL FOR SHIPBUILDING   245

Itiron ship of the same form and size.  is difficult to conceive a higher

testimonial to the strength and fitness of Bessemer steel for shipbuilding
than is afforded by this reduction of 20 per cent, by Lloyd's. Prior to

Ithe construction of steel ships at Liverpool, in 1863, had introduced

the last of the important improvements in my steel process, by inducing
Mr. Henderson, of Glasgow, to manufacture ferro-manganese for me, so

as to produce steel of exceptional mildness for plates and rivets. Hence,

at that date, 1863, Bessemer steel was regularly made of as high a
Iquality as it ever has been, or can be, made. Thus
                                                     established

my claim to have successfully introduced the use of mild cast steel

for the construction of ships of every class and description no less

than thirteen years prior to the construction of the first Siemens-Martin
steel-built ship, the sailing vessel " Stormcock," 466 tons, built in 1878,

and registered at Lloyd's.
IIt will be seen from the foregoing that
                                                    had formed a pretty

accurate estimate of the inertness and inactivity of the British Admiralty,
Iwhen
       decided on not wasting my time in endeavouring to awaken

them to a sense of the vast national importance of employing mild cast

steel for shipbuilding.
IPrivate shipbuilders and shipowners had, as
                                                    felt assured they

would, availed themselves largely of the many advantages possessed

by this material, and had set an example of alertness and activity to the

officials of the Admiralty, an example which they wholly disregarded.

Thus, year after year rolled by, and still there were no signs of the

Admiralty waking up to the consciousness of the great metallurgical

revolution that was rapidly spreading over Great Britain and the whole

continent of Europe, and that had already extended in full force to the

energetic people of the United States. In fact, everywhere steel was

replacing iron for innumerable structural purposes, varying from viaducts

and bridges of large span, down to such small items of domestic hardware

as milk-cans and saucepans.

      After ten years of indifference on the part of the Admiralty, it was

discovered that, notwithstanding the fact that the Bessemer process was a

British invention, the more active and more enterprising officials of the

French Admiralty had fully recognised the value of steel for the con-
246  HENRY BESSEMER

struction of ships of war, and that the French Government were far
advanced with the large iron-clad, "Redoubtable," then being built of

steel at L' Orient, and that they were also pushing forward two other

large steel vessels of war, the " Tempete" and the " Tonnerre," which were

then being built of steel in French ports. When this important fact
came upon our quietly-sleeping Admiralty officials, then, and not until
then, did they rub their eyes, and wake up sufficiently to recognise their
position. They knew that this important fact could not long be concealed
from the public press, and would thus come to the ears of John Bull,

who is apt to demand a scapegoat when he finds that his country has
allowed itself to be beaten in the race with other nations. Possibly
it was felt by the Admiralty that some reason or other ought to be
advanced for their not having commenced to build a single steel war ship,

while our nearest neighbour had nearly completed three magnificent steel

ironclads. Whether this surmise be accurate or not, it is certain that, with
the consent of the Admiralty, Sir Nathaniel Barnaby, then the Chief Naval
Architect of the Royal Navy, read, in 1875, a paper on " Iron and Steel for
Shipbuilding," before the Institution of Naval Architects, in which paper
the alleged " uncertainties and treacheries of Bessemer steel in the form
of ship and boiler plates" were explained to the public. This compre-
hensive summing up of the uncertain quality and undesirable characteristics
of the material was still further emphasised by Sir Nathaniel Barnaby
holding up to the meeting an isolated example of the failure of a thin
piece of plate metal, said to be a part of a Bessemer steel ship-plate,
which had cracked when it was bent to a very small angle. As repre-

sented in Fig. 72, Plate XXXI., this shocking example proved too
much ; it was, in fact, so bad a plate that, if originally made of such an

unheard-of quality, it could never have been either rolled or sheared

in the makers' works without proclaiming its utterly valueless character

to every workman engaged in its manufacture. It must not be forgotten

that it is physically impossible for the Bessemer process to produce a
single isolated plate of such a bad quality, for the simple reason that

Bessemer steel is never made in less than 5 -ton batches, every part

of each "blow" being equally good or bad. Now, after deducting
20 per cent, for waste in shearing, these five tons of homogeneous
                                                                    PLATE XXXI

FIG 72. ALLEGED FAULTY BESSEMER PLATE, 1875
STEEL FOR SHIPBUILDING  247

fluid steel will produce twenty-three ship-plates, 8 ft. long by 3 ft. wide

fand in. in thickness. All of these twenty-three plates must, therefore,

be equally good or bad, so that one bad plate alone could not be
made, though any number of good plates may be spoiled by an ignorant,
careless, or designing workman. The exhibition at a public meeting of
such an unheard-of specimen of steel plate, and the proclamation of the
" uncertainties and treacheries " of Bessemer steel, together with other

damaging statements, by a person holding high authority, compels me

to discuss the above-named paper at some length, and in justice to myself,

to show that Bessemer steel is now and was then, in reality, a metal

immensely superior to ordinary puddled iron, and that the example

exhibited at the meeting in no way represented its true character and

properties.

      In order to clearly understand this question of bad plates, it is

important to bear in mind that the iron plates used by shipbuilders were
infusible in any of the heating furnaces that were to be found in ship-
yards at that date. Hence an iron plate worker could leave an iron plate

in the furnace, and make it very hot with impunity. But cast steel, as
its name implies, has undergone fusion, and if ever it again be subjected
to an unnecessarily high temperature, approaching its point of fusion,

its molecules rearrange themselves, and the valuable qualities conferred

on the cast ingot by hammering and rolling are lost in proportion to the
amount of overheating it may have been subjected to ; so that, at a
temperature quite possible to be given to it by a careless or ignorant
workman, it becomes almost like the normal unwrought ingot from which
it was formed. But this property of cast steel is so well understood by the
practised steel-smith that he will pass hundreds of plates, or other articles,
through any of the processes of heating in the furnace, tempering,
hardening, or annealing, without the smallest injury to any one of them.

It is the unpractised iron- worker, who does not understand the properties

and mode of working steel, who makes mistakes of this kind.

     IIt must also be observed that neither at the date about which

am writing, nor at any subsequent date, has it been possible to make

 cast steel which could not, either by ignorance, carelessness, or design,
be rendered unfit for use by overheating it. Such liability to damage
248                                   HENRY BESSEMER

is not peculiar to steel made by the Bessemer process, since this quality
is common to cast steel, however manufactured. When the molten

cast iron in the Bessemer converter has been decarburised by blowing

air throughis    and has been poured into an ingot mould, the Bessemer
             it,

                                   ;
process complete and such an ingot, like every one made in crucibles,

or by the Siemens or open-hearth process, may be treated properly

and make an excellent plate, or       it  may be treated improperly and

be rendered worthless. The Bessemer process, like all others, may

also make bad steel,                  raw material of inferior quality be used in its
                 it if
manufacture. Sir Nathaniel Barnaby neglected to use the most perfect,if

and, at the same time, the only possible, means at his disposal of proving

beyond dispute the particular piece of plate, which he held up to the

meeting, owed its bad quality to the Bessemer process, or to improper
                                                                                                                                  If he had had
treatment after  had left the converter in pure state.
                                          it a
                                                                  it
this sample of steel carefully analysed before he condemned                                                                       publicly, he

and his audience would have known whether contained such an amount

of phosphorus, sulphur, or any other deleterious matter, as would account

for the extraordinary cracking at so slight an angle, or whether the

steel was free from these deleterious matters or                    was of excellent
                                                      ;

                                                            if
                                                                it

quality when left the converter, and had been spoiled afterwards by
             it

its treatment in the shipyard. Unfortunately, nothing was told us in

this incomplete paper as to how, or by whom, this little sample was

prepared for exhibition. Was the workman who made                   it                                                            steel-smith,

                                                                        a

or was he an iron-worker, ignorant of the nature and proper treatment
of cast steel?

    If an actual plate, which had failed in the course of shipbuilding,

had been shown at the meeting, would have been much more satisfactory
     a

                         ;

                                          it
                                          if

                                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                        is
than sample-piece, by whomsoever made, and such an actual plate could

have been most easily produced, such plates were common enough to

justify what was said of the material in Sir Nathaniel Barnaby's paper.

In the early part of this paper, the author damned Bessemer steel with
faint praise he said, " No doubt, excellent steel
                                                                                                                                  produced in

small quantities by the converter." Quite so the small quantity of

Bessemer steel made in England alone was, during the year in which

this paper was read, over 700,000 tons, or more than one hundred times
                       STEEL FOR SHIPBUILDING       249

the total production of cast steel in Great Britain prior to the introduction
of the process. These 700,000 tons were worth 6,000,000 or 7,000,000

sterling ; so that the great commercial importance that Bessemer steel
had attained at the date when Sir Nathanial publicly denounced it as
a treacherous material, could not be hidden by calling it a "small

quantity" Or did Sir Nathaniel Barnaby desire his hearers to understand

that only very little of this 700,000 tons was good steel ? One per cent,

of this small quantity would have supplied the Admiralty with 7000

tons, or enough to build two of the largest ships of war ever up to

that time constructed ; so the smallness of the quantity was no excuse

for not using it.           Barnaby said : " Our distrust of it is so

      Again, Sir Nathaniel

great that the material may be said to be altogether unused by private

shipbuilders, except for boats, and very small vessels, and masts and

yards." This statement was absolutely unwarranted.
       We were also told that " Marine engineers appear to be equally

afraid of it." Every Englishman who reads this will be surprised at

this confession of want of courage, on the part of our marine engineers.
However this may be, it was very gratifying to know that we had

among us eminent practical engineers in Great George Street, who had

the courage of their opinions, and under whose sanction and advice

hundreds of thousands of tons of Bessemer steel were at that time

being used for structural purposes. At the meeting, when this paper

was read, there was present Mr. Francis William Webb, the well-known

Chief Mechanical Engineer of the London and North- Western Railway,

who was kind enough to bring for exhibition several test-pieces illustrative

of the tests to which every plate of the locomotive boilers made under
his supervision at Ore we was subjected before it was used. These

test-pieces consisted of strips of boiler-plate, doubled up quite into close
fcontact while cold ; and other pieces of plate, each having a hole in. in
                            which hole was then expanded or " drifted "
diameter punched into  it,
                                                 a
out to 2J in. in diameter, by driving conical punch or " drift," with a

hammer, into the small hole first made.

Mr. Webb told those present at the meeting, that in their testing-

house at Ore we they had 11,000 sets of these test-pieces, all duly

                                                                                                                        KK
250  HENRY BESSEMER

stamped and numbered, each one referring to a corresponding number
stamped on 11,000 Bessemer steel plates that had been worked up into
locomotive boilers at Crewe, all of which had stood the ordeal of these

bending and "drifting" tests. Further, he said that Bessemer steel

had entirely superseded iron plates for boiler-making at Crewe, although
his company had previously bought the best iron that could be found

in this country. He also said that the London and North- Western

Railway Company had, at the time this paper was read, no less than
three hundred locomotive boilers in daily use, and that they were

building at Crewe rather more than six steel boilers every week. All

the steel plates were punched and worked, and then flanged into various
shapes with steel hammers ; they were not tickled with copper hammers,

as Sir Nathaniel Barnaby had told his audience was a necessary
precaution in French shipbuilding.

    I may add that the London and North- Western Railway Company

had, at that date, established extensive Bessemer steel works at Crewe, and

made their own steel ; thus demonstrating what could be accomplished

for a great commercial company, advised by a thoroughly practical

engineer, not given to fear and doubting.

    INow, would ask any reasonable man what there was to prevent

the Admiralty from using such a simple and infallible mode of testing

every steel plate brought into the shipyard, the responsible officials
thus assuring themselves, beyond the possibility of doubt, that every
plate in their ships was of the high standard quality contracted for,
and so ending all the ridiculous suspicions of the treacherous nature
of a material that was being daily used so successfully ? The simple
mode of testing used by the London and North- Western Railway
Company in 1875 is illustrated by Fig. 73, where (1) shows the irregular-

shaped plate as it leaves the rolls ; (2) shows it when sheared on three
of its sides, a dotted line indicating where the fourth side is to be
sheared ; and (3) shows the plate sheared on all four sides. Now, if
the Admiralty had ordered every plate delivered to them from the steel-
maker to have one side left unsh eared, as shown in (2), their own people

could have sheared this one side, and cut three pieces, numbered respectively

5, 6, and 7, as marked on the sheared-off piece shown on an enlarged scale
          TESTS OF BESSEMER STEEL BOILER PLATES '                      251

at (4). Having done so, the prover would have taken (5) and hammered it
into close contact while quite cold, as shown in (8); he might then have

taken the piece marked (6), made it red-hot, and while at the proper

                                                   3.

          8. 9.

FIG. 73.  SYSTEM OP TESTING BESSEMER STEEL PLATES ADOPTED AT CREWE BY

                                      MR. F. W. WEBB

temperature for working, hammered it into close contact, as shown in

(9) ; these two tests would have proved or disproved the workable
quality of the plate, both hot and cold. The piece marked (7) would
252  HENRY BESSEMER

                                       and conical steel plug, or
then have had a f-in. hole punched in  it,

                                                     ;

                                                      a

                                                           it
" drift," would have been driven into this hole until          was expanded

to a given standard size, as shown at (10) this would have proved

whether the plate would, or would not, bear punching. Any failure

to stand these three usual tests would have justified the return of the

plate to the manufacturer, and thus no loss would have been incurred by

the Admiralty. With the certainty of perfect safety which these proofs

afforded, the London and North -Western Railway Company, acting

under the advice of their engineer, and under the responsibility of the

directors, did not hesitate to stake the lives of many thousands of

persons every day, for whole years together, daily transporting them

over hundreds of miles of Bessemer steel rails, over which rolled

thousands of Bessemer steel tyres, drawn by hundreds of locomotives

having Bessemer steel boilers, steel axles, steel cranks, steel piston-rods,

steel guide-bars, steel connecting-rods, etc., etc. All this went on hourly,

weekly, and for years, and had been going on for ten years under the

eyes of the British Admiralty and their officials. Mr. Webb and his

directors were fully justified in this extensive use of Bessemer steel,

for they had carefully and tentatively put to a long and continuous
                                   ?
practical test, and proved to demonstration that no iron made in this
                                               it
country was equal to this Bessemer steel in toughness, strength, and

endurance under severe strains.

     It would be very instructive to the British taxpayer to know

how many hundreds of thousands of pounds were expended by our

Admiralty in the construction of iron ships of war during their ten

years' abstention from the use of steel, and how much the efficiency

of the vessels was reduced by the extra weight involved.

      In his paper, Sir Nathaniel Barnaby further stated that the steel
shipbuilders at L' Orient scrupulously avoided the use of iron hammers,

and that they had various mechanical devices for "coaxing and humouring

this material." Why did not the author give the meeting some account

of what had been done nearer home      Why did he steer clear of Liver-

pool, where the material of eighteen steel ships had been shaped and

fashioned with steel hammers wielded by the powerful arms of the
practised steelsmith, without any " coaxing and humouring?" The meeting
        OFTHiT '

UNIVERSITY
 ^c,idnrFcRNi^
PLATE XXXII

                       pq
OF THE  N\

$S( UNIVERSITY |
                       F
PLATE XXXIII

                          Oi
                          0100
                       W
                            b1-0
                       TESTS OF BESSEMER STEEL                              253

was also informed that the ordinary steel angles in use at L'Orient

cost 27 per ton, and the double-tee bars about 41 per ton ; and

to this there was to be added the cost of such careful labour as he

had described.     But private shipbuilders and ship-owners were not

deterred by the price of Bessemer steel from using it even ten years

before the date at which this paper was written, when Bessemer steel

was at least 30 per cent, dearer than in 1875. Would it not have

been far better to have quoted the then prices of Bessemer steel in

England, instead of giving the absurdly high prices said to obtain

in France ?

    I was present at the reading of Sir Nathaniel Barnaby's paper, when

he held up to the meeting the piece of steel plate, which he called " the

Itreacherous Bessemer steel," illustrated in Fig. 72, Plate XXXI.

invite my readers to compare this illustration with the various examples
I have had photographed of Bessemer steel tests of gun-forgings (see Figs.
XXVIII.69 and 70, Plates
                               and XXIX.) and with the 11,000 test
pieces then accumulated at Ore we. But even more striking than these
Iwere the specimens
                       had prepared thirteen years before. Few would

believe, without ocular demonstration, the extraordinary fact that a

^thin steel plate, 11 in. in diameter and           in. thick, can be brought
without rupture into the forms shown in Fig. 74, Plate XXXII., while
Fig. 75, Plate XXXIII. shows various pieces of Bessemer steel, of our

regular daily manufacture at Sheffield, tested cold. The former are
                                            "
examples  of what  is  called  " spinning      the  cold  steel  plate  is  made
                                           ;

to revolve in a lathe, and is pressed heavily upon by a blunt instrument

as it revolves, just as a piece of soft clay revolving on a potter's

wheel is pressed upon by his thumb and fingers, and is fashioned into

a vase. As the thin cold steel plate revolves it yields to the pressure

exerted upon it by the blunt instrument forced dexterously against
a

                                                                                                                   it,
and by degrees its particles are expanded in some directions and contracted

in others, the solid cold steel flowing, like its prototype the potter's

clay, and forming almost any variety of circular form which the work-

man desires to give it. This wondrous change of position of the several

parts of the original flat plate takes place without the smallest symptom
of crack or failure at any part of its surface. These examples
254                               HENRY BESSEMER

demonstrate the marvellous toughness of the Bessemer cast steel when

manipulated by a skilful workman.

      The small vase on the left, 4j in. in height and 3j in. in diameter

(Fig. 74, Plate XXXII.), is by no means a solitary example. It was

one of a group of vases of various forms exhibited by me at the Inter-

national Exhibition of 1862, that                 thirteen years before Sir Nathaniel
                     a
                                             is,
Barnaby held up to the public meeting an isolated example of                         a

maltreated plate as  representation of the " treacherous Bessemer

steel," which he seemed to think was sufficient to excuse the British

Admiralty for their ten years' indifference and apathy. During those

ten long years, twenty-four Bessemer steel works had been erected in

England alone, having 112 converting vessels with their powerful blast

engines, steel-rolling mills, and other expensive plant and buildings,

producing annually 700,000 tons of Bessemer steel.

     At the time at which write (1896), when we look into the present
                     I

                                              is
state of British shipbuilding, we find that merchant sailing-ships and

passenger steam-ships are, in all cases, built of mild cast steel, which

is  admitted to be the most suitable of known materials for their con-

struction. The way in which mild cast steel (Bessemer and open-

hearth) has absolutely superseded iron            proved by the annexed extracts

from Lloyds Register of British Shipbuilding for the year 1895.

       During 1895, exclusive of war ships, 579 vessels of 950,967 tons gross (viz., 526 steamers
of 904,991 tons and 53 sailing vessels of 45,976 tons) have been launched in the United
Kingdom. The war ships launched at both Government and private yards amount to 59
of 148,111 tons displacement. The total output of the United Kingdom for the year has,

therefore, been 638 vessels of 1,099,078 tons.

     As regards the material employed for the construction of the vessels included in the

United Kingdom returns for 1895,   found that, of the steam tonnage, nearly 98.8
                                  it
                                        is
                                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                         is
per cent, has been built of steel and 1.2 per cent, of iron. The iron steam tonnage

practically made up of trawlers, and comprises no vessel of more than 425 tons. Of the

sailing tonnage, 97.0 per cent, has been built of steel, and 3.0 per cent, of wood. No iron

sailing vessel appears to have been launched during the year.

     Can any evidence more clearly show how the opinions of shipbuilders

and shipowners, including the great passenger steam-ship owners and the

Admiralty itself, have practically condemned iron as           shipbuilding
                       STEEL FOR SHIPBUILDING                                255

material, with the consequent adoption of mild cast steel in its stead?

In considering this evidence it must not be forgotten that mild

Bessemer steel has not undergone the smallest alteration in manufacture,

or any improvement in quality, since the completion of the eighteen

Bessemer steel ships which were built at Liverpool. All that we did

then we do now, and consequently the steel was as well adapted for

the building of ships at that period as it is at the present day. From

                       period of twenty years the London and
1875 up to 1896 thataI
                   I
North- Western Company have built no less than 4000 Bessemer steel
                                  is,
locomotive boilers, and during these twenty years of constant wear and
                          Ia
Ittear, not one of these has ever been treacherous enough to burst.I

may further be recorded that the London and North- Western Railway       it

Company made all the Bessemer steel plates used for building their

splendid fast Dublin and Holyhead passenger boats, which have so long

been in constant use.

Although    have unavoidably used words of censure in speaking

of that abstraction, the British Admiralty, no one can doubt that its

officials are gentlemen of honour and integrity. They are liable, like

the rest of humanity, to errors of judgment, while the traditions of

the office, and the conditions under which they work, must tend to

develop the conservative side of their character, and render them averse

to experiment. But the course they pursue, whether                           be technically

the wisest or not, represents, am sure, their honest opinion, and under

no circumstances whatever would they stoop to the meanness

of attempting to escape the consequences of any errors of judgment

by making   scapegoat of the man through whose energy and

perseverance the construction of mild cast-steel ships was rendered

commercially possible, and whose invention has so greatly benefited

the nation generally, and the British Admiralty in particular.

Although that great department of the State failed for so long to

recognise the merits of my steel,  have received the most ample

recognition of the value of my inventions, alike from reigning sovereigns,

from the learned societies, and scientific institutions of every State in

Europe, all of which   acknowledge with every expression of profound

gratitude.
                    CHAPTER XVIII

                    MANGANESE IN STEEL MAKING

TN giving a brief account of the more salient points of my life's history,
-- I have deemed it desirable in some cases not to keep strictly to the

chronological order of events, which would so entangle different subjects

with each other as to render each incident difficult to be understood.

I have therefore preferred sometimes to follow up the details of a series

of connected events, and thus trace each subject to its natural conclusion,

afterwards retracing my steps to recall other incidents which have thus

been unavoidably displaced and left to some extent in the background.
IIn accordance with this plan,
Imonth in which                 now go back to August, 1856, the

IAssociation.       read my to me memorable, paper at the British

               have mentioned on another page* that one of the immediate

results of that paper was the application for a large number of patents

by various people, either bond-fide though unpractical inventors, or

others who deliberately planned to take advantage of the premature

publication of my invention, by obtaining patents which should hedge

me round and force me to divide with them the fruits of my labours.

I Ithink have already made it clear that none of these efforts, bond-fide

or otherwise, ultimately interfered with the triumphant development of
Imy own patents.
                    am treading on very delicate ground, and although
Ithe events have to refer to occurred many years ago, and are entirely
I I Idone with so far as am concerned,
                                feel that even now may not
Ibe able to write without prejudice, much as
                                                  should desire to do so.
I shall therefore confine myself entirely to a narrative of facts, and

keep my own individuality    and personal feelings  as far as possible
                            in this Chapter bears   intimately upon the
in the background.
IAs all
               have to say

                            * See page 166 ante.
                 MANGANESE IN STEEL MAKING                         257

employment of manganese in the manufacture of cast steel, it will be

Iin the natural order of things if commence with a short review of

the use of manganese in this industry.

      In all the old published accounts of steel making, we find that

steel works were located in places where manganesian iron was found.
The ancient steel manufacturers of Styria produced the famous German
" Natural Steel," which was so much used in this country before Sheffield

had achieved its present high reputation. The manganesian iron ore,

known here as spathose, or white carbonate, was in Germany known as

stahlstein, a term indicative of its well-known special aptitude for the
production of steel from the pig-iron known in Styria as spiegel eisen,
then and now so much used in steel making. Towards the end of
the eighteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth, efforts were
made in this country to combine the metal manganese with our British
iron, and thus obtain pig-iron so alloyed with manganese as to give it
those qualities which enabled the Germans to produce with their
manganesian iron ores the finest steel in the market in those early

days.

       The first in the long list of inventors and patentees is one William

Reynolds, who, in December, 1799, obtained a patent in this country
" for a new method of preparing iron for the conversion thereof into

steel," by employing oxide of manganese, or manganese (that  is,metallic

manganese), which was to be mixed either with the material for making            ;

the pig or cast-iron, or with the cast iron, to be converted into malleable

iron in the finery, bloomery, puddling furnace or otherwise.

      In either case, ordinary British pig-iron would be converted into

manganesian pig-iron, or spiegeleisen, by the employment of Reynolds'
patent process of preparing cast-iron " for its conversion into steel "

process that has, at the time     am writing, now been public
a                              I

              I
property for a period more than eighty years. Thus had acquired, inI
common with all other persons in this country, the right to put oxide of

manganese into the blast furnace witli the iron-making materials, and so

produce manganiferous pig-iron of any desirer^uality for conversion into
malleable iron or steel. By the falling into public use of this long-

expired patent had, in common with all other persons, also acquired

                                                             L
                                                                L
258                                    HENRY BESSEMER

the right to add manganese (that
                                 it                                                     the metal manganese) to cast-

iron in order to render                                   is,
                                       more suitable for conversion into steel.         II

had the full right to use such alloyed cast-iron for making steel by

my process; and by my patent, bearing date October 17th, 1855,

had the right, after the blowing process, to recarburise, or alter the
state of carburation of, the converted metal by the addition thereto of

molten pig-iron    right of which no subsequent patent could deprive me.
                 a

                      :

                       a

                            it

                                                                                   a
     This patent of Mr. Reynolds' started host of imitators, who all

laid claim to improve iron for steel making, or to improve steel when

made, by alloying                with manganese.                                        In case any of my readers
should desire to see how these very " numerous inventors " tried to

claim this valuable material for their own special use and advantage,

I  give below list of most of them for easy reference to their respective

specifications.

                                 MANGANESE PATENTS.

   Reynolds, Wm., A.D. 1799. "For New Method of Preparing Iron for Conversion
                                       a
thereof into Steel." Oxide of manganese    is  to be mixed, either with the materials for

making the pig, or cast iron, or with the cast iron, to be converted into malleable iron, in

the Finery, Bloomery, Puddling Furnace or otherwise.

      John Wilkinson, A.D. 1808. "Making        Pig, or Cast Metal, from the Ore for the
Manufacture into Bar Iron equal to Russian     or Swedish," by manganese, or ores containing

manganese in addition to iron-stone.

      John Thompson, A.D. 1819. "Extracting Iron from Ore."                             The inventor smelts  a
mixture of iron ore and oxide of manganese.

       Charles Schafhautl, A.D. 1835.  " Manufacturing                                  Malleable Iron," by using oxide of
manganese.

   Josiah Marshall Heath, A.D. 1839. "Manufacture of Iron and Steel." Manufacture
                  furnace with deficient fuel uses oxide of manganese. " Carburet of
of cast steel in  a
                                                                                     ;

manganese may be used in any process for the conversion of iron into cast steel."

       William Vickers, A.D. 1839. Bfanufacture of Cast Steel." Wrought-iron borings and
scraps are melted with oxide (A ^Qpiese and carbon in crucibles to produce cast steel.

        Charles Low, A.D. 1844.  "Manufacture of Iron and Steel." Uses oxide of manganese
and charcoal in pots.
                          PATENTS RELATING TO MANGANESE IN STEEL MAKING                                                               259

               John D. M. Stirling, A.D. 1846. "Alloys and Metallic Compounds, and Welding the
        same to other Metals." Molten cast iron and malleable iron and metallic manganese are used.

               Moses Poole, A.D. 1847. "Manufacture of Cast Metal, Iron and Steel." Chromate of
        iron, oxide of manganese, etc., are used.

        Alexander Parkes, A.D. 1847. " Manufacture of Metals containing Iron and Steel."                                                  To

        improve iron, some metallic manganese may be melted with
a                                                                                                                etc.
                         is
                                                               5
                                                                                                            it,
              John D.     M. Stirling,  A.D. 1848. "Manufacture of Iron and Metallic Compounds."
        Molten iron       mixed with     to 30 per cent, of scrap and one per cent, of manganese in
                          furnace.
           reverberatory

               Josiah Marshall Heath, A.D. 1848. " Manufacture of Cast Steel."                                   Granulated de-oxydised
        pure iron, mixed with manganese and carbon.

          Richard A. Brooman, A.D. 1853. "Producing Castings in Malleable Iron."                                                Manganese
        used with wrought scrap in crucibles with carbon.
is
      is     J. Leon Talabot, A.D. 1853.  "Manufacture of Cast Steel."                                           Blister steel        melted
                                                                                                                             is
        with oxide of manganese.                                                                                                  is

              John D. M. Stirling, A.D. 1854. "Manufacture  of Steel."                                           Cast iron      repeatedly
        melted with iron oxides containing manganese.

       C. A. B. Chenot, A.D. 1854. "Manufacture of Steel, Iron, and different Alloys." Iron

ore roasted, pulverised, and converted into "sponge." lt then mixed with manganese,

and fused.
                                          a
                                                                     s

                                                                     is

        Auguste E. L. Bellford, A.D. 1854. "Manufacture of Steel and Wrought Iron directly

from the Ore." Iron ore mixed with manganese and other substances, and                                                       roasted. It
                           is                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                                                   is

then melted in crucibles.

       Charles Sanderson, A.D. 1855.      "Manufacture of Iron."  Sulphate of iron and manganese
are added to molten iron.

       Abraham Pope, A.D. 1856. "Manufacture of Iron."            Iron ore, boghead coke, and oxide
of manganese are melted in reverberatory furnace.
                                        a
                                                                                                                         is     and other
       Richard Brooman, A.D. 1856. "Manufacture of Cast Steel."                                                  Manganese
materials are added to wrought iron to make steel.

      John D. M. Stirling, A.D. 1856. "Manufacture          of Steel."   Manganese                                           used in the
manufacture of steel from cast iron and iron ore.
260                              HENRY BESSEMER

       Joseph Gilbert Martien, A.D. 1856.  "Manufacture of Iron." Manganese is blown into
molten iron.

     "William Clay, A.D. 1856. "Manufacture of Wrought or Bar Iron." Uses manganese.

       Abraham Pope, A.D. 1856.  "Manufacture of Steel." Manganese is used in the
cementation process.

       From the foregoing long list of claimants to the use of manganese
in various ways in steel making, it must be evident that a knowledge of

of its beneficial effect was widely known and highly appreciated nearly a

century ago ; but the most prominent, and the most practically

successful, of all these patentees was a Mr. Josiah Marshall Heath, a

civil servant under the Indian Government, who, noticing in the native

Wootz steel -making of India the marvellous effect of manganese,

conceived the idea of producing steel of superior quality from

inferior brands of British iron by its use in the cast-steel process then

extensively carried on in Sheffield. Heath came over to this country,

and obtained a patent, bearing date the 15th of April, 1839, for the

employment of carburet of manganese (that  :            manganese in the metallic

                                                   is,
state) in the manufacture of cast steel an invention of very great

utility, as by its use cast steel of excellent quality could be produced

from British iron that had been smelted with mineral fuel. Such steel

possessed the property of welding either to itself or to malleable iron.

The Sheffield cutlers were thus enabled to weld iron tangs on to the

cast-steel blades of table - knives, and also to weld many other similar

articles a process which was not successfully carried on previous to
is
                   :the use of metallic, or carburet of, manganese under Heath's patent.

     Mr. Heath, in his specification, does not confine his claim to the

use of carburet of manganese in crucible steel melting, but distinctly

claims "the use of carburet of manganese in any process whereby iron

   converted into cast steel." All that Heath claimed lapsed and

became public property when his patent expired, and the right to use
carburet of manganese " in any process whereby iron
                                                        converted into
                                                        is

                                                                     if
cast steel" became common property by this publication, even             the

patent were invalid. Heath was fully justified in making this general

claim, because the results obtained depended on an inevitable chemical
                             \XUi<NIVTECRRSNIT^YX]J

                   HEATH'S PATENT AND USE OP MANGANESE                                                                                                              261

law, viz. : whenever metallic manganese, with its powerful affinity for

oxygen, is put into molten iron containing disseminated or occluded

oxygen, a union of the       oxygen and the manganese follows as an
inevitable consequence of    their strong affinity for each other, wholly
irrespective of the process  employed in the manufacture of the iron or

steel so treated.

      In consequence of this successful invention of Heath's, no British

iron that has been smelted with mineral fuel is ever made into cast

steel in Sheffield without the employment of carburet of manganese.

In the early days of Heath's invention, he supplied the carburet

in small packages to his licensees ; he made this by the deoxyda-
tion of black oxide of manganese mixed with coal-tar, or other carbon-
aceous matter, in crucibles heated in an ordinary air furnace. This

was a costly process, and as the demand increased he suggested to his

licensees that it would be cheaper to put a given quantity of oxide of
manganese and charcoal powder into their crucibles, along with the
cold pieces of bar iron or steel to be melted. These materials would,

when sufficiently heated, chemically react on each other, and produce

the requisite quantity of carburet of manganese in readiness to unite
with the steel as soon as the latter passed into the fluid state. But
Heath's licensees said, " This is not precisely your patent, Mr. Heath,"

and they claimed the right to carry out this suggestion without

paying him any royalty. This was the cause of some eight or nine
years of litigation, by which poor Heath was ultimately ruined, although

his patent was established by a final decision of the House of Lords

alas ! only too late ; for Heath died a broken-hearted, ruined man,

wholly unrewarded for his valuable invention.

Thus we see that both in the use of a carburet, and also by the use

a mixed powder, consisting of oxide of manganese and carbon, Heath's

process has been successfully and commercially carried on from the date

of his patent, in 1839, up to the present hour.

Now, as my converting process was specially intended to deal with

iron that had been smelted with mineral fuel, it will be readily under-

stood how disastrous it would have been to me,          by the action of
                   I
                                                                               if,

                                                                                                                                                                 ;
another patentee,  had been prevented from using manganese for
262             HENRY BESSEMER

if manganese, in some form or other, were absolutely necessary for the

production of steel of good quality from iron smelted with mineral

fuel, it would follow that if the use of manganese, in all its known

forms and combinations when applied to the Bessemer process, could

be patented, thus becoming the exclusive property of some other persons,

Ithen should have been rendered utterly powerless, and my invention

could not have been worked without the permission of the holders of

Ithese patents, and should consequently have been wholly at their mercy.

     This part of my narrative turns upon a patent obtained by Mr.

Joseph Gilbert Martien, on September 15th, 1855, about a month before

I took out my first steel patents. Mr. Martien's invention referred to

improvements in the manufacture of iron and steel. He was at that

time engaged at the Ebbw Vale Works, either on the staff of that

company or as an independent experimenter. There would have been

no need for me to refer to Mr. Martien's patent of 1855, but for subse-
                                             It was really a valueless
quent events with which it was associated.
Ipatent, and one which found no practical application ; nevertheless,
Imust describe it briefly here, and cannot do better than reprint some

passages from Mr. Martien's specification.

Specification.  A.D. 1855. No. 2082.

                Martien's Improvements in the Manufacture of Iron and Steel.

     This Invention has for its object the purifying iron when in the liquid state from

a blast furnace, or from a refinery furnace, by means of atmospheric air, or of steam, or
vapour of water applied below, and so that it may rise up amongst and completely penetrate

and search every part of the metal prior to the congelation, or before such liquid metal is

allowed to set, or prior to its being run into a reverberatory furnace in order to its being

subjected to puddling, by which means the manufacture of wrought iron by puddling

such purified cast iron, and also the manufacture of steel therefrom in the ordinary manner,

are improved.

      In carrying out my Invention, in place of allowing the melted iron from a blast furnace

simply to flow in the ordinary gutter or channel to the bed or moulds, or to refinery or
Ipuddling furnaces, in the ordinary manner,
                                             employ channels or gutters, so arranged that

numerous streams of air, or of steam, or vapour of water may be passed through and amongst
the melted metal as it flows from a blast furnace.

      Thus we are distinctly told that the crude metal, after treatment
in the gutter, is made into malleable iron or steel, by puddling in the
          MARTIEN AND MTJSHET's INVENTIONS                                               263

ordinary manner, and not by the action of the steam, air, or vapour of

Iwater blown through it. In evidence of this give another quotation

 from Mr. Martien's printed specification.

       In treating the liquid or melted metal as stated, either as it directly comes from a blast
 furnace or from a finery fire, it is left in the form of pigs, plates, or in a granulated state,
' as may be desired ; or it may be conducted after such treatment directly and without material

 loss of heat to a reverbatory or other furnace or furnaces, and there subjected to intense
 heat and manipulation, and speedily converted into balls of malleable metal of iron and steel.

Martien was under the impression that he could, in part, supersede

the ordinary finery fire, and render the crude iron more suitable for

puddling, there being no new method or process of making malleable

iron or steel described, or even in the most remote manner suggested,

in this patent. In fact, in the last quotation, he tells us "the metal

is left in the form of pigs, plates (that
                             if             presume, finer's plate metal),
                                it
or in granulated state, and                                                           into malleable
                                      is,I
a                                     be desired to make                          it

      I
iron or steel, the old process of puddling must be resorted to.

Possibly  think probably we should never have heard any more

of Mr. Martien's invention had not been for my Cheltenham paper
                                  it

of August, 1856. This paper, as we have seen, was fertile in suggestions

to many would-be inventors. Amongst them in the records of the

Patent Office we find, on September 16th, 1856, the applications for two

patents connected with the manufacture of steel one of them was taken
                                  is,

                                                                              ;;
out in the name of Robert Mushet and the other by Joseph Gilbert

Martien. Six days later that on September 22nd two other patents

were applied for by Robert Mushet, all four of the patents named being for

the use of manganese in the manufacture of steel and therefore they were,

intentionally or otherwise, obstructive patents from my point of view. It

must be remembered that these patents were applied for in the fourth

and fifth weeks immediately following the reading of my paper at

Cheltenham, at which period the whole iron trade of this country

was in state of extreme agitation and excitement in reference to my
a

invention, which, at that moment, was believed would effect complete
                                  it

                                                                                      a

revolution in the iron industry.

Now, at this period, hundreds of men in Sheffield knew perfectly

well that cast steel made from iron that had been smelted with mineral
264               HENRY BESSEMER

fuel was so much improved in quality by being alloyed with manganese,

that such iron was never made into cast steel in Sheffield without the

addition thereto of oxide of manganese and carbonaceous matter in the

form of powder, which was put into the crucible or vessel in which cast
Isteel was made.
                  have, however, already dwelt at length on Heath's

invention, and have shown that his patents, which had expired long years

before, had given to the world the free use of manganese in steel-making,

and that its general application was a matter of universal knowledge.

      Mr. Mushet's specification commences, " Now know ye that I, the

said Robert Mushet, do hereby declare the nature of my said invention,

and in what manner the same is to be performed to be particularly

described in and by the following statement. When cast iron, including

grey and white pig iron and refined metal, has been decarburised or

purified by forcing air through or amongst its particles, either in the

manner described in the specification of Letters Patent, dated the 15th

day of September, 1855, granted to Joseph Gilbert Martien, or in any

other convenient manner, with a view to convert it into malleable iron,

etc." Now, it is clear that Martien did not blow air through molten

iron, in order to convert it into malleable iron, but simply in order to

prepare such cast iron for the after-process of puddling, by which

process, and not by the air blown througha                                  was to be converted into
                                                           a

                                                              is
                                                                       it,

                                                                    is it
malleable iron. Further, any addition of pitch and oxide of manganese

could not possibly convert into steel iron treated in the manner

described in this patent of Martien so specifically referred to. There

was at that time no commercially-known process of converting pig

iron direct into malleable iron or steel, while still retaining its fluidity,

except that patented by me, to which alone Mr. Mushet's patent could

possibly be applied.

      Any attempt to carry into practice Mr. Mushet's process, in the

manner described in his patent of September 16th, 1856, would have been

attended with great danger, and failure must have inevitably followed.

In the manipulation of cast steel small quantity of oxide of manganese

and charcoal in the form of powder put into the bottom of covered

crucibles, nearly filled with cold broken-up steel bars. In such crucibles

only very small amount of atmospheric air present, consequently the
                                     MANGANESE AND PITCH                              265

     charcoal at the bottom of the covered crucible is not consumed. But as

a it,soon as a very high temperature is attained the carbon present gradually
     deoxydises the manganese, producing a fluid carburet of that metal,

     which unites with the steel as soon as the latter is fused. Now, Mr.
     Mushet proposed a somewhat different method of procedure. In this
     first patent for improvements in the manufacture of steel he stated

     that he preferred to use pitch as the carbon element, and having melted
          to put into the fluid pitch an equal weight of oxide of manganese

     in the form of powder, and to stir them well together. This mixture was

     to be allowed to cool, after which the brittle mass was to be reduced to

     state of powder, and quantity equal to one-fifth, or to one-tenth, the
                            aI a
     weight of the converted metal was to be used before, during, or after
                                           ;
     the conversion. Now, have found on testing the specific gravity of

     this fine powder that           cubic foot of         weighs, as near as may be,
                                                    it

                                                              5
     62J Ib. (the same as water) hence the minimum charge of one-tenth of
     the weight of the contents of an ordinary -ton converter, or 10 cwt.,

     would have bulk of 13.9, or nearly 14, bushels we may call 13 bushels
                a                                                      it

                                                                            :

                                                                               a
       while the maximum charge would be 26 bushels. Let us see how such

     an addition would behave        if       put into Bessemer converter             vessel
                                              a
     with an interior lining brilliantly red-hot, and containing about 90 toa

                                                        a
     100 cubic feet of atmospheric air, at temperature of about 1000 deg.

     Fahr. Certainly the first shovelful of such highly-combustible powder

     thrown into this red-hot chamber filled with heated air would result in a

     dangerous gas explosion, and the instant rejection of the unreduced

     manganese powder present in the mixture. How, then, were the 13

     bushels, or the 26 bushels, of this explosive powder to be got into the

     red-hot vessel        For even           were possible to put in only the smaller
                it                   if

                       5?                it
                                                  it

                                                       it
     quantity of 13 bushels, of this powder, would form for few minutes
                                                                 a
     a huge bath of molten pitch, and                                       a

                                                                                  is
                                              would require very bold man to

     pour into             tons of molten iron. The whole proposition                 so abso-

     lutely unpractical that requires no further comment.it
           Six days later (September 22nd, 1856), Mr. Mushet applied for

     another patent, which did not differ from the use of carburet of

     manganese as patented by Josiah Marshall Heath in 1839, for years used
     by Sheffield steel manufacturers, and in which patent Mr. Heath claims,

                                                                                                                                            MM
266  HENRY BESSEMER

fourthly, " the use of carburet of manganese, in any process whereby

Iiron is converted into cast steel," to which have previously referred.

Now, it is obvious that this use of carburet of manganese, even if it

Icould not have been claimed by Heath in his patent of 1839, had as

have already stated become, by mere publication,  common property
for a period of no less than sixteen years prior
patent of September, 1856. The only plea that     to Mr. Mushet's

                                                  could possibly be

advanced to justify Mushet's claim to a long-ago expired patent,

which had been extensively used, was that the steel into which

this carburet of manganese was to be put had been made by a

different process. Now, let us see to what a deadlock all improved

manufactures would be reduced if once we admit such a claim. Let

us take an example which is strictly analogous. Some fifty or more
years ago a great discovery was made by Mr. Pattinson, of Newcastle,
who invented a most ingenious mode of extracting metallic silver from

ordinary commercial pigs of argentiferous lead. Previous to this, silver

had been almost exclusively obtained from silver ore, amalgamated with

mercury, and afterwards refined, melted, and cast into ingots. There
was no analogy whatever between the old process of extracting silver

and that discovered by Mr. Pattinson. It had long previously been

found that silver, though a very beautiful metal in appearance, was
almost useless, either for the manufacture of utensils or for current

coin, on account of its extreme softness ; articles made from pure silver

being easily bent or misshapen, and coins losing their impression by

wear and abrasion. But it was fortunately discovered that an addition

of 10 Ib. of copper to every 90 Ib. of silver, so hardened and strengthened
the silver as to render it eminently adapted both for the manufacture
of utensils, and also for current coin. This valuable alloy of copper and

silver was accepted by all European Governments as a standard alloy to

be stamped as " silver" and it has been in universal use for many years,

just as steel alloyed with carburet of manganese passes current as steel,
                                                          But the
the alloy having also been in public use for many years.

silver obtained from lead pigs by Mr. Pattinson's new process, like that

obtained from silver ore, was, of course, too soft to be used in that

state. Now, if some speculative patentee had, on the first announcement
SPIEGELEISEN IN STEEL MAKING  267

to the world of Mr. Pattinson's great discovery, rushed to the Patent
Office to claim the sole right to put 10 per cent, of copper into silver
obtained by Pattinson's process, under the plea that this silver had been
produced by a new method, it is self-evident that the claim could not
here be substantiated. To admit it would have been simply to destroy
all future great inventions ; the whole idea is too absurd to require
further argument.

       On September 22nd, 1856, Mr. Mushet took out yet another patent,
claiming the employment of one of nature's compounds : a compound
which steel - makers have used for the production of steel as far back
as the history of steel-making extends, and which consists of iron found
in the mine associated, or combined, with manganese and oxygen. Such
ore, when smelted, produces a pig iron which contains iron, carbon,

manganese, silicon, and generally phosphorus, sulphur, and other matters

in small quantities, in combination with the iron. In his third patent
Mr. Mushet did not mention my name, or designate any patent of mine,

as the invention which he proposed to improve by the use of spiegeleisen ;
and again the Crown and the public were told that, for the purposes
of his invention, " the iron may be purified by the action of air in the
manner invented by Joseph Gilbert Martien," as will be seen by the
following quotation, reproduced from a printed copy of Mushet's
specification, published by the Commissioners of Patents :

      The iron may be purified by the action of air, in the manner invented by Joseph
Gilbert Martien, or in any other convenient manner. The triple compound or material which

I prefer to use is pig or cast iron made from spathose ore, such ore and the pig or cast iron

made from it containing a proportion of manganese, as well as the iron and carbon of which
cast iron is usually composed.

    If Mr. Mushet had taken the trouble to examine my early patents

for the manufacture of steel, he would have found that the re-carbura-
tion of converted metal by the addition thereto of molten pig iron, was
perfectly well understood, and had been patented by me more than a
year prior to the date of either of his three manganese patents.
Mr. Mushet also appears to have entirely overlooked my description
of the several modes of making alloys in my process, as set forth in
my patent, dated May 13th, 1856, sixteen weeks prior to the date
268             HENRY BESSEMER

of either of his three patents. This description was not given for the
purpose of claiming any such alloys, but, on the contrary, its object
was to disclaim the right to make alloys in my converter of any
metals previously used in the trade to form an alloy with steel, and

by such disclaimer and publication to prevent anyone from obstructing

me in the free use of all such well-known alloys. In order to show

I Iwhat really did say in my patent, give a copy of the paragraph from

my specification.

     IWhen employing fluid metal for alloying with malleable iron or steel, pour it through

an opening in the converting vessel, so that it may fall direct into the fluid mass below;
Ibut when employing metal in a solid form,
                                            put it into the upper chamber through the

door g, and allow it to acquire a high temperature, after which it may be pushed with a

rod, through the opening d, into fluid iron or steel ; and when using salts or oxides of

Imetals for the purpose of producing an alloy or mixture with the iron or steel, prefer to

introduce such salts or oxides in the form of powder at the tuytres, or to put them into the
I Ivessel previous to running in the fluid metal.
                                            would observe, that am aware that zinc,

copper, silver, and other metals have before been combined with iron and steel otherwise
Imanufactured,
                therefore make no general claim thereto.

      This paragraph clearly points out how such alloys are to be made,
Iand mention as examples, silver alloys, once used and greatly esteemed
as " silver steel "; also alloys of zinc, patented as a detergent to carry
Ioff phosphorus from steel ;
                                  also mention copper as used in stereo

metal for the manufacture of guns in Austria, and other metals
                                  ISurely, after
heretofore used in steel-making.                          had thus published

and disclaimed the use of any alloys previously used, no one could

obtain a valid patent for alloying steel in my process with metals used

to alloy steel then in common use.

      IThe result of my early experiments in re-carburising confirmed the
view  had taken from the first, viz., that it was best to stop the

process as soon as steel of the proper quality was arrived at, for the

continuation of the blowing process until malleable iron was obtained,

had the disadvantage of consuming from 2 to 3 per cent, more

iron than when steel was made ; and, what was still worse, the metal

got very much overcharged with oxygen, causing violent ebullition in
Ithe mould.
                had an idea that this occluded oxygen could be got
Irid of without any addition to the metal.
                                                          had noticed that when super-
FLUID COMPRESSED STEEL                                          269

oxydised molten malleable iron came in contact with the cold-iron mould, it

boiled and threw off large quantities of gas, as its temperature was reduced,

the action being similar to that which takes place in the cooling of large

masses of molten silver, which sputter and make a sort of little volcanic

mound on the top of the ingot, owing to the spontaneous disengagement

of occluded oxygen. In the case of steel, this throwing off of carbonic

acid, or carbonic oxide, gas was a source of great unsoundness in ingots,
                                                                I
and appeared to be a very important subject for investigation.

consequently had a small apparatus constructed, with a view of seeing

how far this gaseous matter could be prevented from escaping in the

form of bubbles by being surrounded with a dense atmosphere, to

suppress ebullition ; and also how far it could be removed by con-

siderably lowering the pressure of the surrounding atmosphere, thus

favouring ebullition and the removal of the gas from the metal.

    I may here mention, incidentally, that these experiments were the

starting-point of my patents for casting under gaseous pressure, and

Ialso under the pressure of an hydraulic plunger, acting direct on the

fluid metal. Under this latter patent, granted a license to Sir Joseph

Whitworth to make his compressed steel. The experimental apparatus

for removing gas in vacuo just referred to, was simply a short cylindrical

vessel, on to which a conical cover was fitted ; the flanges which formed

the junction between the two were accurately surfaced, and formed an

air-tight joint. At the top of the apparatus a small circular piece of

plate glass was inserted, through which the eye could, by means of

the light emitted by the incandescent metal, see distinctly whatever

was going on inside the chamber.

       This apparatus is shown in section in Fig. 76, page 270. Having
converted some pig iron into highly-carburised steel by means of a fire-
clay blow pipe, a crucible about half filled with this steel was put into the
chamber. The pipe and stop-cock shown on one side of it were made
to communicate with an exhaust pump, or with an exhausted vessel, the
effect of which was at first to cause a few bubbles to rise to the surface

of the metal ; but only a comparatively gentle ebullition was produced,
Ifhowever high a vacuum was attained.
                                       mild steel, however, was so

treated a much more violent ebullition took place ; and if a 20-lb.
270                      HENRY BESSEMER

crucible containing about 10 Ib. only of wholly decarburised pig iron
was put into the chamber, and a high vacuum was produced, the
ebullition set up by the rapid escape of gas caused the steel to boil
over the top of the crucible, and occupy the lower part of the chamber,

as shown in the engraving.
       Many experiments were made with this simple apparatus, and they

convinced me at the time that it was far preferable to blow the metal
only to the condition of steel, using the recarburising process to as
small an extent as possible. Thus it happened that in my early patent*

     FIG. 76.  EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS FOR EXPOSING MOLTEN STEEL
                            TO THE ACTION OP A VACUUM

Iof October 17th, 1855,  described the recarburising process in the
Iwords which
               reproduce from my printed specification, which dates

more than one year prior to Mr. Mushet's patents.

       During the decarbonizing process, the state of the metal may he tested by dipping out

a sample with a small ladle, as practised in refining copper; if too much carbon is retained,

the pipe G may be again introduced for a short time, or a small quantity of scrap iron may

be put into it; but if too much carbon has been driven off, an addition may be made of

some melted iron from the finery or cupola furnace : a little experience will, however, enable
the workman to regulate his process so as to produce the different qualities of steel which

he may require.

    IThis quotation shows that, from the earliest date, fully understood
THE DISADVANTAGES OP SPIEGELEISEN                            271

and appreciated the facility which molten   carburet of iron gave for
regulating the state of carburation of the
used any kind of manganese pig iron for     Iconverted metal ; and if
                                            Iconverting into steel, as

had a perfect right to do, the addition of some of this molten iron
" from the cupola furnace " to my converted metal, would of necessity
involve the recarburising, by the use of a " triple compound of iron,

carbon, and manganese."

      Now the particular manganese pig iron, called in Styria spiegeleisen,
the use of which Mr. Mushet claimed by his patent, may in round

numbers be fairly stated to consist of 4 per cent, carbon,   8 per cent,
manganese, 2 per cent, of some half a dozen other elements,  and 86 per
cent, of iron. These proportions are by no means well        adapted for

the deoxydation of mild steel, and it is impossible to use such a metal

when soft decarburised iron is desired, as steel, and not malleable iron,

Iwould be produced.
           have before stated, that in my earliest experiments the quantity

of oxygen taken up by the metal was but small, if the process was

Istopped when the desired quality of steel was arrived at. But if
Icontinued the blowing process until soft iron was produced had a
I Idouble disadvantage : burnt and destroyed as have already stated

from 2 to 3 per cent, more of the iron than was lost when making steel,
Iand immensely increased the quantity of oxygen absorbed.    It was

this fact that induced me to persevere in decarburising only to the

extent necessary to make steel of the precise quality desired ; and
where this system has been pursued in Sweden and in Austria, it

has proved commercially a great success.

     It will at once be seen how ill-adapted are the proportions of carbon,

manganese, and iron, in spiegeleisen, because enough of the per cent, of

manganese present cannot be put into the converter to deoxydise the
malleable iron, without introducing at the same time so much of the
4 per cent, of carbon present as would make the whole of the malleable

iron treated, into cast steel. For this reason the very soft or mild

quality of steel required for ship and boiler-plates should be recarburised
with an alloy of something like the following proportions : 60 per cent,
of manganese, 4 of carbon, and 36 of iron.
272  HENRY BESSEMER

      Now, if Mr. Mushet had invented a new triple compound of iron,

carbon, and manganese, in somewhat about the proportions indicated,
and had shown a cheap and ready way of producing it on a commercial
scale, he would have been entitled to a patent for his mode of producing
such an alloy, and also for the use of such an artificial compound

in any other process to which it might be applicable. But it was
not new to improve steel by alloying it with manganese : a method long
before known to, and daily practised by, hundreds of workmen in the

steel trade.

      This patent of Mr. Mushet, claiming the sole use of manganiferous
pig iron, had simply the effect of calling the attention of steel-makers

to a makeshift alloy, and thus diverted for some years my attention,
and doubtless that of many other persons, from the pursuit of a
ready means of producing such an alloy of manganese as would be
better suited for the purposes for which spiegeleisen had been

employed. All the difficulties in making boiler and ships' plates

of the degree of mildness necessary to ensure their safety under

the severe strains to which they are subjected, arose from the
excess of carbon and the deficiency of manganese in the natural alloy

Ispiegeleisen.
           may here state that, very soon after commencing the manufacture

of steel at my Sheffield works, this difficulty about mild steel plates was
Istrongly felt when using British coke-made iron.
                                                   attained complete

success with Swedish charcoal iron, and thus could make tool steel and

gun steel as good as, or better than, any in the market. On these

steels there was a large profit, and the cost of the material was

not important. But when the steel had to be sold in competition

with iron plates, it was necessary to use cheaper pig iron, and it
Iwas with this iron that the difficulties arose. However,
                                                           found

that another of Nature's compounds, wholly differing from spathose

ore, or white carbonate of iron, from which spiegeleisen is obtained,

existed in large quantities in New Jersey, in the United States. The

mineral referred to is a ferriferous oxide of zinc, and on its discovery
it was given the name " Franklinite," in honour of Dr. Franklin. When

the zinc is driven off, in the form of vapour, there results an alloy
           THE MANUFACTURE OF FERRO-MANGANESE                               273

of iron and manganese, usually containing from 11 per cent, to 11^ per
cent, of manganese, which is far better adapted for the deoxydation

of mild steel than spiegeleisen, containing only 8 per cent, of that
metal. Consequently, " Franklinite " was much used at my works in

Sheffield, pending my introduction of ferro-manganese into the trade.

This, unfortunately, from a variety of circumstances, was delayed

Iuntil 1862, when induced a Glasgow firm to go into the manufacture

of ferro-manganese, both for our own use at Sheffield, and for the

benefit of my licensees. The subjoined extract will show how valuable

this ferro-manganese was, more especially for plate-making, and how much

the Bessemer mild steel plates of that early date suffered in reputation

by the undue introduction of carbon into the metal from the use of
Ispiegeleisen, so rich in carbon, and so poor in manganese.
                                                                            quote

one of the highest living* authorities, a gentleman who enjoys both

an American and a European reputation as an iron and steel manu-
Ifacturer and metallurgist.
                               refer to Mr. Abram S. Hewitt, the United

States Commissioner to the Universal Exposition at Paris in 1867, who,

in his able report to the American Government, commented on the

Bessemer process and its application to the manufacture of plates as

follows :

                               MANUFACTURE OF BESSEMER PLATES.

The application of the Bessemer process to the production of plates either for boilers

or for ships, girders, etc., is one of the most important that could be made. Nevertheless

the amount of metal used for this purpose in England falls much below that employed

for other purposes. This is due to a certain amount of distrust of steel plate, doubt as

to its reliability under varying strains of tension and compression, its capability of being

punched and sheared without injury to itself, and of its action under the influence of heat

and water as in the fire-box of a boiler.  In other countries, as for example Austria, as

will be shown when we come to speak of the manufacture as carried on in that country,

this has not been the case, and large quantities of plates have been produced and successfully

applied to a variety of uses.

       The secret of the distrust in regard to Bessemer plates in England is that in nearly

all cases the percentage of carbon contained in the metal has been too large. The spiegeleisen
used in England is not particularly rich in manganese seldom exceeding nine per cent, of
that element, while it generally contains from four to four and a half per cent, of carbon.

It is difficult, therefore, with such materials to deoxygenate the metal sufficiently without

           * Living, 1896; died, January 18th, 1903, in his 81st year.  NN
274                            HENRY BESSEMER

introducing also a considerable percentage of carbon. About 0.4 per cent, of the latter is

as large an amount as is proper for plates which are to resist severe strains, and though a

greater proportion adds materially to the tensile strength of the metal when measured simply by
a direct pull, it renders it also much harder and more liable to crack under the treatment

to which it is exposed in the ordinary methods of construction. The difficulty in the way

of producing good soft plates for boilers or other uses appeared at one time to have been

satisfactorily overcome by the substitution of ferro-manganese in the place of the ordinary

spiegeleisen. The manufacture  of this substance was commenced by a firm in Glasgow as
a branch of another business   in which they were engaged, and plates made with it as a

deoxygenator gave most excellent results. Unfortunately, however, the firm who had undertaken

the manufacture shortly afterward became insolvent, and the patentee of the process has

not as yet re-established the manufacture (which requires a considerable expenditure for
suitable furnaces) elsewhere in England. Had the use of this substance continued for a
longer time, so as to make the excellence of the steel produced with it fully appreciated by

the public, there would have been a demand for plates urgent enough to have immediately

secured the re-establishment of the manufacture.

       This unbiassed judgment of the United States Commissioner amply
endorses my views on the subject, and shows how much my process
suffered by the adoption of a rough-and-ready mode of supplying a want,
which scientific inquiry into the relative proportion of the elements

present in spiegeleisen would have at once condemned.

      Before dismissing Mr. Hewitt's report, it will be interesting to

briefly notice what he had to say to his Government as to the carrying
out of the Bessemer process both in Sweden and in Austria.

      Under the head of Sweden, Mr. Hewitt made the following

remarks :

                               SWEDEN.

     An examination of the specimens of Bessemer steel from Sweden in the Exposition

shows us that the metal there produced is of a far superior character to that made in England,

and naturally leads to inquiry as to the cause of the difference, and whether we may hope

to attain the same success in the United States. First, we observe coils of wire of all sizes,

down to the very finest, such as No. 47, or even smaller.  This they have not been able

regularly co produce in England. In the next place we notice a good display of fine cutlery,

and the writer is informed by a competent authority that this metal answers so well for this

purpose that it is now used almost to the exclusion of any other. This statement is corroborated

by the fact that in the miscellaneous classes of the Swedish department, where cutlery occurs

not as an exhibition of steel, but merely as a display of workmanship by other parties in the

same manner as other articles of merchandise, cases of razors are exhibited with the mark of

the kind of steel of which they are made stamped or etched upon them as usual, and these
are all " Bessemer," but from a variety of different works, viz. : Hogbo, Carlsdal, Osterby
            .......Garb, acid SWEDISH BESSEMER STEEL                         275
            ......Silicium

            Alumina
and Soderfors.        The ore used in Sweden for producing iron for the Bessemer process is

exclusively magnetic, and of a very pure quality. An analysis of a mixture of those used for

the iron employed at the Fagersta works before roasting gives the following composition :

                          .                                           8.00
                                                                    17.35

                                                                     0.95

            Lime.                                                   6.50
            .4.35Magnesia
                          .      .     .     .                   .
            .3.35Protoxide of manganese . . . .
            Magnetic oxide . . . . . .32.15

            Peroxide of iron                                        27.40

                                                                    100.05
                       .0.03Phosphoric acid. . . .
            .................. ..Graphite
All the pig made from this mixture of ores, the exhibitors state, will give a steel without

the use of spiegeleisen, which is not at all red-short.
       The analysis of gray iron from the same works, used for the Bessemer process, is given
            .Sulphur
as follows :

            .1.012Carbon combined.  .     .                   .

                                                                    3.527

            Silicium   .      .     .                               . 0.854

            Manganese                                               1.919
           ......Silicium
           Phosphorus                                               0.031

                                                                    0.010

           ......Phosphorus
The analysis of mottled pig (la fonte truiti), consisting of two-thirds gray and one-third

white, is

           .2.138Carbon combined.   .     .                   .

           Graphite                                                 2.733

                                                                    0.641

           Manganese                                                2.926

                                                                    0.026

           Sulphur                                                  0.015

Of each of these it is stated that the steel produced without the employment of

spiegeleisen is not at all red-short (cassant h chaud). The most noticeable feature in the
composition of these irons is the large percentage of manganese which they contain, together

with the extremely minute proportion of sulphur.                    a fixed form of vessel is

      In the process of conversion, from motives of economy,

employed, instead of one mounted on trunnions, as in England and elsewhere. The tuyeres,

about nineteen in number, are placed horizontally just above the bottom of the vessel, and are

inclined a little from a radial direction so as to give a rotary motion to the mass of

molten metal.
276                    HENRY BESSEMER

       Here we see that fine cutlery was exhibited in 1867 with the
name "Bessemer steel" conspicuously stamped upon it as a mark of
superiority. Wire of the finest numbers had been produced of superior
quality, etc. ; the crude metal was run direct from the blast furnace
and blown to steel in a fixed converter ; no spiegeleisen or re-carburation
was needed. This was precisely my original mode of operating, as

described in my Cheltenham paper.

      Again, Mr. Abram S. Hewitt, in his report, gives an interesting
account of the manufacture of Bessemer steel as represented by exhibits
in the Austrian Department of the Paris Exposition of 1867, and from

Ithis account give the following quotation :

                       AUSTRIA.

     The conditions under which Bessemer metal is produced in Austria are in many respects

similar to those existing in Sweden. The iron employed is smelted with charcoal, is nearly

free from sulphur and phosphorus, and contains a large percentage of manganese. There are

differences in the manner of conducting the process, but these important conditions insure

the production of a metal of similar excellence to the Swedish, and, like this, much superior

to the ordinary metal produced in England.

     The principal works in Austria are at Neuberg, in the province of Styria, and are carried

on by the government.  The iron is obtained from spathic ores smelted in two furnaces

43 feet high, and yielding from 100 to 150 tons per week. The iron produced is found by
analysis to contain 3.46 per cent, of manganese, and, as in Sweden, it is used for recarbonizing
in the place of the usual spiegeleisen. Originally a fixed vessel was erected at these works similar

to those used in Sweden, but this has been superseded by a pair of three-ton vessels of

the ordinary construction. Fixed or Swedish vessels are, however, still in use at other

Austrian works. The metal is run directly from the blast furnaces into the converters.

     Here we have a full confirmation of the successful working of the

original fixed vessels in Austria, the metal being used direct from

the blast furnace. In those cases where it was recarburised, this

was not done with spiegeleisen, but by using the same metal as that
Ifused for conversion, as described in my patent of 1855.
                                                                                        my
Iinvention had gone no further than this, and had never introduced any

of the mechanical improvements, which together constitute an entirely

new system of steel manufacture, the accomplishments of such results
as Mr. Hewitt saw and described would have been by itself a new

departure in steel-making, and would have profoundly altered the condi-
                 THE BESSEMER PROCESS IN AUSTRIA                                                                                           277

tion of the crucible steel trade of this and other countries. Also, the

facts recorded show how far the Bessemer converter and the Sheffield

crucible are in one essential feature in perfect accord, viz., the Sheffield
crucible process can make excellent cutlery steel from Swedish charcoal
pig iron without the use of manganese in any form.

      But the Sheffield crucible process cannot make good steel from
British iron smelted with mineral fuel without the employment of
manganese in the steel pot. Nor can the Bessemer converter make
good steel from British iron smelted with mineral fuel without the
employment of manganese in its converter.

       Nothing can more clearly show that the application of manganese
to Bessemer steel was not a discovery or novel invention, for with what
kind of iron it was necessary to use manganese, and with what kind
of iron it was not required, was perfectly well known to Sheffield steel-
makers many years before Mr. Mushet claimed the use of it.

       The perfect success that was obtained from the very first working
of my process*, both in Sweden and in Austria, excited the greatest

       * Referring to the development of the Bessemer process in Europe, Mr. Abram S. Hewitt

said, in his Report on the 1867 Exhibition: "It will be interesting to those who are

watching the advancement of the new process, to know that it is already rapidly extending

itself over Europe. The enterprising firm of Daniel Elfstrand and Co., of Edsken, who

were the pioneers in Sweden, have now made several hundred tons of excellent steel

by the Bessemer process. Another large works has since started in their immediate

neighbourhood,  and two other Companies are making arrangements, to use the process.

The authorities in Sweden have most fully investigated the whole process and have

pronounced it perfect. The large steel circular saw-plate exhibited was made by Mr.

Goranson, of Gefle, in Sweden; the ingot being cast direct from the fluid metal, within

fifteen minutes of its leaving the blast furnace. In France, the process has been for some

time carried on, by the old established firm of James Jackson and Son, at their steel works, near

Bordeaux. This firm was about to go extensively into the manufacture of puddled steel,

and indeed had already got a puddling furnace erected and in active operation, when their

attention was directed to the Bessemer process. The apparatus for this was put up at

their works last year, and they are now greatly extending their field of operations, by putting

up more powerful apparatus at their blast furnaces in the Landes. There are also in course
of erection four other blast-furnaces in the South of France, for the express purpose of

carrying out the new process. The long and well-earned reputation of the firm of James

Jackson and Son  in itself, guarantee of the excellent quality of the steel produced by
         is
                           is,
                                                a

                                                                                                                                       is
this process. The French samples of bar steel exhibited, were manufactured by this firm.

Belgium  not much behind her neighbours in the race, as the process                                                                        being put into
278                HENRY BESSEMER

interest in those countries. My first licensee in Sweden, Mr. Goran sen,

of Gefle, came over to England as soon as the printed notice in the

press of my Cheltenham paper had reached him. He was a man

possessed of great energy as well as practical knowledge ; he saw the

converting process at my experimental works in London, and he erected

a fixed vessel like the one he saw. In this he used the molten iron

direct from his blast furnace, and converted it into steel without recar-

burising ; in fact, he kept strictly to the mode of operating described

in my Cheltenham paper. In a very short time he had his steel works

in operation, and sent over some ingots to show me what splendid

\steel he was making. One of these ingots was rolled in Sheffield into

a circular saw -plate, T in. thick and 5 ft. in diameter. So great
was the interest excited in Sweden by the successful production of

high-class steel by the Bessemer process, that Prince Oscar took a

journey of over 200 miles to see it in operation at the works of
Mr. Goransen, and the impression made on the Prince's mind was so
favourable that it resulted in my being made an honorary member

of the Iron Board of Sweden, in recognition of the value of my

Iinvention : a compliment which shall ever highly esteem.

     The circumstances attending the introduction of my process into

Austria were very different, but were equally satisfactory.

    I had no Austrian patent, and therefore did not take any steps

to introduce my process into that country. The principal iron works

are at Neuberg, in Styria, and belong to the Government. The intelligent

managers of those works early applied to me for information regarding
Imy steel process, and, as had no patent, they desired to know under
Iwhat terms would supply all such plans as would enable them to put
Iit in operation.
                   offered them detailed drawings of all the apparatus,

a written description of the process, and a trial of their pig iron at the

Sheffield Works, in the presence of one of their own employes, for which

I asked a fee of 1000. This offer was at once accepted, and the

operation at Liege. While in Sardinia preparations are making to carry it into effect, Kussia
has sent to London an Engineer and a Professor of chemistry to report on the process, and
Professor Miiller of Vienna, and M. Dumas and others from Paris, have visited Sweden,
to inspect and report on the working of the new system in that country."
THE NEUBERG WORKS IN AUSTRIA  279

agreement thus entered into was carried out to our mutual satisfaction ;

in due time, the works at Neuberg were got into active operation, and

were entirely successful. In fact, with their splendid pig iron, it would

have been difficult to have made a failure. Prince Demidoff inspected
the works, and gave such a favourable report to the Emperor that His
Majesty conferred on me the honour of " Knight Commander of the
Order of His Imperial Majesty Francis Joseph," which, with the scarlet

collar and gold and enamelled cross of the Order, was presented to
me by His Excellency the Austrian Ambassador in London. This

I Idecoration highly prize, and have worn it on many public occasions.*

       * The following extract from Men and Women of Our Time (Koutledge and Co.),
summarises the many distinctions conferred on Sir Henry Bessemer :

       " The first honorary recognition of the importance of the Bessemer process in this country was
made by the Institution of Civil Engineers about 1858, when that body awarded Mr. Bessemer
the Gold Telford Medal, for a paper read by him before them on the subject. A knowledge
of the new process soon spread to Sweden, Germany, Austria, France and America, and the
inventor has received from these countries many honours and marks of distinction. In
the early days of the invention, Prince Oscar of Sweden travelled many miles to witness
the process in operation, and, as a mark of his approval, made the inventor a member of
the Iron Board of Sweden. In Austria, the honour of the Knight Commander of the Order
of his Imperial Majesty Francis Joseph was presented to him by the Emperor, together
with the gold and enamelled cross and ribbon of the Order. The Emperor Napoleon desired
to present him with the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour, but the British Government
would not allow him to accept it. The Emperor in person presented him with a superb
gold medal instead. He also received the Albert Gold Medal, which was awarded by the

Council of the Society of Arts, presented to him by the Prince of Wales at Marlborough
House. The King of "Wurtemburg also presented to the inventor a handsome gold medal,
accompanied by a complimentary testimonial. His Majesty the King of the Belgians, who
has always taken a deep interest in the Bessemer process, has on several occasions honoured
the inventor by personally visiting him at his residence on Denmark Hill. The Freedom
of the City of Hamburg was also presented to him in due form. He was also made a member
of the Koyal Academy of Trade in Berlin, and a Member of the Society for the Encouragement
of National Industry of Paris ; and in England he was made a member of the Koyal Society
of British Architects, and a member of the University College, London, a member of the
Society of Mechanical Engineers of England and America. He succeeded the late Duke of
Devonshire as President of the Iron and Steel Institute of Great Britain, and during his

presidency he instituted the Bessemer Gold Medal, which has since been awarded annually

for the most important improvement in the iron and steel manufacture made during the year.

He also instituted the Bessemer Bronze Medal and five-guinea prize of books, annually presented

to the most successful student at the Koyal School of Mines at South Kensington. The
280  HENRY BESSEMER

     IIn the latter part of 1856 and the commencement of 1857,

steadily pursued my experiments, with a view to improve the quality
I Iof the steel
     was making, and to get rid of red-shortness.

sought for information on this point in old books and encyclopaedias,
Iwhere very little information could be gained.
                                                  also re-perused such
Imetallurgical works as possessed, and had already skimmed over too
Ilightly, and in one of them
                              found some most valuable information,
I Itwhich at once saw was applicable to my case.
                                                  related to an invention

that had been introduced into the Sheffield steel trade, about sixteen

years previously, by means of which iron of inferior quality was made

to produce excellent steel, and to receive the property of welding. The

article referred to was written by my old and esteemed friend, Dr. Andrew

Ure, and appeared in a supplement to the third edition of his Dictionary

of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines, published by Longmans and Co.
in 1846.

     It has many times been remarked that some of the most important

events which shape and control our lives or fortunes, arise from fortuitous

circumstances which apparently have no possible connection with the

Institution of Civil Engineers awarded him a splendid Gold Cup, being the Howard
Quinquennial Prize. He was also presented with the Freedom of the Cutlers' Company of
London, and the Freedom of the Turners' Company; and, at a specially-convened meeting
at the Guildhall, on May 13th, 1880, Sir Henry Bessemer was presented with the Freedom
of the City of London, beautifully illuminated, and contained in a massive gold casket, " in
recognition of his valuable discoveries, which have so largely benefited the iron industry
of this country, and his scientific attainments, which are so well known and appreciated
throughout the world ; " the same evening he was entertained at a banquet given in his
honour, at the Mansion House, by the then Lord Mayor, Sir Francis Wyatt Truscott. But
it may be truly said that in no part of the world has the Bessemer process been developed
to the extent and with the energy that has marked its progress in America. In several
different parts of the United States, where nature has richly endowed them with those
aids to civilisation, coal and iron, manufacturing cities have been established, to which,
by common consent, they have given the name of Bessemer. Thus we have the rapidly-
increasing and important City of Bessemer, Gogebec County, Michigan ; the City of Bessemer,
chief town of the County of Bessemer, Alabama, with its Mayor and Corporation, its street
tramways and electric lighting, and its large manufacturing works, public schools, and numerous
churches. There is also the City of Bessemer, Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, the seat
of the great Edgar Thompson Steel Works, the largest in America. There is also the City
of Bessemer, Botetourt County, Virginia; the City of Bessemer, Natrona County, Wyoming;
and the City of Bessemer, Gaston County, North Carolina."
                                                                                             PLATE xxxiv

          234 STEEL.

          solid iron end ol the press, made to resist great pressure ; it is strongly bolted to the
          cylinder a, so as to resist the Force of the ram ; g, g, iron rods, for bringing back the
          ram b, into its place after the pressure is over, by means of counter weights suspended
          to a chain, which passes over the pulleys h, h ; i, i, a spout and a sheet-iron pan for re-

          ceivSinTgEEthLe.oilyOnfleuid.of the greatest improvements which this valuable modification of
          iron has ever received is due to Mr. Josiah M. Heath, who, after many elaborate and

          costly researches, upon both the small and the great scale, discovered that by the
          introduction of a small portion, 1 per cent., and even less, of carburet of manganese
          into the melting-pot along with the usual broken bars of blistered steel, a cast steel was
          obtained, after fusion, of a quality very superior to what the bar steel would have
          yielded without the manganese, and moreover possessed of the new and peculiar pro-
          perty of being weldable either to itself or to wrought iron. He also found that a
          common bar-steel, rmde from an inferior mark or quality of Swedish or Russian iron,
                      would, when so treated, produce

                      an excellent cast steel. One im-
                      mediate consequence of this dis-
                      covery has been the reduction of
          161         the price of good steel in the

                      Sheffield market by from 30 to 4O

                      per cent., and likewise the manu-

                      facture of table-knives of cast

                      steel with iron tangs welded to
                      them ; whereas, till Mr. Heath's

                      invention, table-knives were ne-
                      cessarily made of shear steel, with

                      unseemly wavy lines in them,

                      because cast steel could not be

                      welded to the tangs. Mr. Heath
                      obtained a patent for this and

                      other kindred meritorious inven-

                      tions on the 5th of April 1839 ;
                      but, strange and me)anc.holy to

                      say, he has never derived any
                      thing from his acknowledged im-

                      provement but vexation and loss,-
                      in consequence of a numerous
                      body of Sheffield steel manufac-

                      turers having banded together to
                      pirate his patent, and to baffle

                      Jhim in our complex law 'courts.
                          hope, however, that eventually
                      justice will have its own, and the
                      ridiculously unfounded pretences '

                      of the pirates to the prior use of
                      cfianrablluyretatofremsat.ngaInteseis  will be set
                                                               supposed
                      that fifty persons at least are em-

                      barked in this pilfering conspiracy.
                         The furnace of cementation in

                      which bar-iron is converted into
                      bar or blistered steel is
                      in figs. 161, 162, 163.    reIptreissenretectd-

                      angular and covered in by a
                      groined or cloister arch: it con-
                      tains two cementing chests, or
                      sarcophaguses, c, c, made either
                      of fire-stone or fire-bricks : each
                      is 2 feet wide, 3 feet deep, and
                      12 long ; the one being placed on
                      the one side, and the other on the
                      other of the grate, A B, which
                      occupies the whole length of the
                      furnace, and is from 13 to 14 feet
                             The grate is 14
                      long.                                                                  inches
          broad, and rests from 10 to 12 inches below the inferior plane or bottom level     of the
          chests; the height of the top of the arch above the chests is 5* feet; the bottom  of the

FIG. 77.  KEPRODUCTION OF PAGE FROM THE SUPPLEMENT TO DR. URE'S "DICTIONARY OF
                                       ARTS, MANUFACTURES, AND MINES"
                 THE EFFECT OF MANGANESE ON STEEL                 281

events they have in reality brought about. My readers will remember
Ithat in the early part of this volume (page 13)
Iacquaintance with Dr. Ure, and related how       gave an account of my
                                                   had shown him some
Imedallions which had coated with a thin deposit of copper from its
Iacid solution.
                 told of the great interest Dr. Ure had taken in my

discovery, and how, in November, 1846, he published a supplement

to his work, in which he gave an account of my invention under the
Iarticle " Electro-Metallurgy." Hence,
                                        naturally purchased a copy of
this, to me, most interesting volume. It was an article on the manu-

facture of steel, contained in this supplement, which first enlightened

me on the subject of manganese and Heath's invention ; this culminated
in the production of ferro-manganese.

    I read this account of Heath's invention with deep interest, and
Iat the same time scored a line under a few of the sentences which very

forcibly struck me ; in order that my readers may see precisely the
Ikind of information this article furnished,
                                              have had the whole page
Iphotographed, and reproduce it in Fig. 77, Plate XXXIV.
IOn reading this well-authenticated account of Heath's invention,
Iat once saw that red-shortness would be cured by its use, for had

found that my red-short steel crumbled away under the hammer if

raised to a welding heat. Here, in the book of my old friend, Dr. Ure,

was ample proof that inferior brands of iron could be made into weldable

cast steel simply by alloying them with 1 per cent, of carburet of man-

ganese. This fortunate discovery of what had already been practised for

years came like a revelation to me ; and as this patent of Heath's had
Ilong expired, and his invention had become public property,
                                                              at once

investigated  Ithe whole subject, commencing with inquiries into the law
proceedings
information.  referred to by Dr. Ure, where gained much additional
Inventions,"
               In the reports of " Noted Cases on Letters Patent for

              Iby Thos. Webster, barrister-at-law, published in 1855,

found the complete specification of Heath's patent, and also much

evidence given in the Exchequer Court, in the case of "Heath v. Unwin,"

Hilary Term, 1844, by experts who had studied the subject both

Itheoretically and practically. From these reports subjoin the following

extract :

                                                              oo
282                     HENRY BESSEMER

       Evidence was given on behalf of the plaintiff by manufacturers of steel, and of long
experience in the trade, to the effect that cast steel suitable for the manufacture of
cutlery, before the introduction of the plaintiff's process, could only be made from high-priced
foreign iron, that the use of carburet of manganese in the manufacture of welding cast steel
was new at the date of the plaintiff's patent ; that the introduction of the plaintiff's

invention caused a revolution in the trade; that the plaintiff had, after long investigation
and experiments, discovered that when black oxide of manganese was combined in such
proportions with carbonaceous matter as to form a carburet, it enabled the manufacturer to
produce a welding cast steel suitable for the manufacture of cutlery from low-priced British
iron, which had never been done before, and which reduced the price of the steel from about
701. to about 35. per ton.

     IHere was the remedy     was in search of, clearly pointed out ;

experienced Sheffield steel-makers had testified on oath that the use of

carburet of manganese, added to the cast steel, enabled the latter to

produce welding cast steel suitable for the manufacture of cutlery from

low-priced British iron, which had never before been done. No sooner

I Ihad ascertained these facts than commenced experiments on the

production of Heath's carburet of manganese in crucibles, using the air-
Ifurnace which
                had many years previously successfully employed to

produce all the various alloys of metal required in my bronze-powder

manufactory at Baxter House.
     I Iwell remember how much trouble
Iexperiments, in which                  had with the first few

                        used charcoal and black oxide of manganese,

the charcoal, ground to a very fine powder, being much in excess of the

quantity actually required. This was a great mistake, as the reduced

oxide remained in minute metallic particles, intermixed with the

overdose of charcoal powder. This mistake was afterwards remedied,
Icoarse granular charcoal in suitable proportion being used.
                                                              have
Inever publicly referred to these early experiments, simply because was
Iunaware that had, or could show, any evidence of the fact; and, as is
Imy rule in all such cases, preferred to remain absolutely silent, not

only in reference to these early experiments to produce carburet of

manganese, but also as to my initiation of the manufacture of alloys

of iron rich in manganese, which are now so well known under the

name of ferro-manganese. But a purely accidental circumstance has,

within the last few years, furnished me with such conclusive evidence of
                   CARBURET OP MANGANESE                    283

Ithe fact as to make me no longer hesitate to show how far  was

instrumental in the production of that valuable alloy, ferro-manganese.

    IIn searching through the contents of an old box had brought to

IDenmark Hill from Queen Street Place on my retirement from business,

  came upon six old pocket-memorandum books, in which I, from time to

time, had recorded many experiments on alloys, mechanical contrivances,

suggestions for new patents, etc. In one of these old books, bearing

on its flyleaf the date January 8th, 1852, written forty-five years
Iago by my deceased partner Longsdon,
                                       found several memoranda

relating to my first attempt to make Heath's carburet of manganese,
Iwhich were the direct outcome of the information
                                                   had obtained

from Dr. Ure's book. These researches were made about a month

before any one of Mr. Mushet's patents was published or could

possibly be known to the world. It will be seen that these memo-

randa were roughly made on the spur of the moment, and were

simply for my own guidance, or to prevent ideas and experiments

from being forgotten.

    I give a facsimile of some of them in Fig. 78, page 284.

     It will be remembered by many members of the Iron and Steel

Institute that it was in one of these old memorandum books that

I came upon my notes relative to the manufacture of what were

designated "Meteoric Guns," to be made by alloying malleable iron or
steel with 3 per cent, of nickel; a photograph of these notes was com-
municated by me to the Institute, and published in their Journal,
Vol. 18. Had it not been for this accidental discovery of memoranda

made at the time, and the existence of which had been entirely for-
Igotten,
          should never have reverted to this subject, since the mere

adoption of Heath's process could in no way add to whatever credit

I may be entitled to for the discovery and development of the

Bessemer process.

These old records of experiments will serve to show the difficulties

that one meets with from the most trivial circumstances.  The fact

was that my air-furnace, which was designed for making bronze alloys,

was deficient in temperature when treating such a refractory ore as
oxide of manganese, and produced only a few buttons of reduced metal.
284                      HENRY BESSEMER

    I had found, in making alloys of copper and tungsten for bronze

powders that the mineral wolfram was most difficult to bring to

     OjA,*i**Ji M *W0*.

     FIG. 78. FACSIMILE KEPRODUCTION FROM BESSEMER'S NOTE-BOOK

the metallic state, but was reduced easily if crushed and mixed with

oxide of copper, or with refuse "copper-bronze," that  is,  a fine powder

with pure copper. Thus copper, alloyed with tungsten, was readily

obtained. This fact of the union of metals in the act of simultaneous
        OF THF

UNIVERSITY
                                                            PLATE XXXV

                    ^//u*          ^

                                        r//tx

                                                  xx / Cv^

                                   (O

**                                        ,                       v

                                   C*a*U. /U?

y^//A^;/i  (ty/fj?S/*^>,i!;^           r

           i .fit,  4V

                               wf

           FIG. 79. FACSIMILE OP PAGES PROM BESSEMER'S NOTE-BOOK
                      ALLOYS OF IRON AND MANGANESE             285

Ireduction from their oxides, of which had some practical experience,

at once suggested to me that the difficulty in reducing oxide of

manganese would be removed, by combining it in the form of powder

with oxide of iron, which is so easily fused, and then reducing
Ithe two metals simultaneously.
                                 clearly saw, at the same time, that

this system of alloying the manganese with iron would prevent the

spontaneous decomposition of pure metallic manganese when exposed to

ordinary atmospheric influence, as the manganese would be protected

by the iron present.  This mode of producing an alloy of iron and

manganese, in almost any assignable proportions, appeared to me to be

such an important step in advance as to render all further experiments

in making Heath's pure carburet of manganese quite unnecessary ; these

ideas were at once jotted down in my pocket-book, and simply embody

the first rough views taken of this important manufacture. The

memoranda referred to are photographically reproduced in Fig. 79,

Plate XXXV.
IWith reference to Bethel's patent coke,
                                                may mention that this

coke is made by the destructive distillation of coal-tar in closed retorts,

which leaves a porous hard coke which is almost pure carbon. This

process would have been excellently adapted for the reduction of oxide

of manganese on a large scale, and such a system of coke-making in a

retort would have been far less expensive than Heath's crucible process.
I IWhat wanted to obtain, however, was the substance
                                                      had designated

"artificial ore of manganese and iron." Such artificial ore could be

smelted like other iron ores, and thus offered all the prospective
Iadvantages of quantity and cheapness. This particular scheme
                                                               never

lost sight of until it culminated in the production of ferro-manganese

at Glasgow. Since my invention was kept in abeyance, so far as
Isteel-making from British iron was concerned,
                                                was desirous of making

a series of experiments on all the rich alloys of iron and manganese.

II, therefore, had my furnace enlarged and the draught improved.

   then applied to Messrs. Bird and Company, of London, who were

agents for the Workington Hematite Iron Company, to obtain for

me some of their pure hematite ore for my experiments. There was

some delay in getting this ore, and in the meantime both Mr. Martien's
286                      HENRY BESSEMER

and Mr. Mushet's patents were published. Then, for the first time,

I realised that an obstacle had been created, which might prevent

my using manganese in my process in any and every form in

which that metal was known, or had previously been in public use.
INevertheless,
                   felt not the slightest hesitation in making use of

Ispiegeleisen, or any other manganesian pig-irons, which were covered by
my prior patents.  was, however, unfortunately diverted for the time

from the pursuit of the richer alloys of manganese which would have

prevented all those troubles met with in producing steel of sufficient

Imildness for plates, so deeply engrossed did become in the introduction

of my process to the trade, and in keeping watch against the many

attempts to encroach on my rights. Coupled with these there was

constant and laborious work at the drawing-board in making the original

drawings for my own further improvements, and in the development

of the many mechanical devices necessary to the commercial use of my
invention on a large scale. With all these imperative calls on my

time, something had to go to the wall, and the rich manganesian

alloys were for the time crowded out. In this busy year that
I                                                                                                                                     from

           aSeptember 1856 to November 1857had taken out eleven new patents.

                     I

                                    it

                                                         a
                                                            a

                                   I
                                        I
                                               I

                                                                                                                                 is,
had settled the mechanical details of each one, and had personally

made the whole of the drawings for the eleven specifications. Every day

had its new labours, and every day the need for these rich alloys of

manganese became more evident.

      About this time had long conversation on this subject with
Mr. William Galloway, one of the partners in our Sheffield firm, and

we seriously thought of putting up a blast furnace for making rich
manganesian pig-iron. Mr. Galloway had some land at Runcorn, on

the Mersey, which he suggested should be utilised for this purpose

as private speculation of our own.       made many inquiries about
manganese mines at the " Mining Record " Office, and got a good deal

of useful information from Mr. Robert Hunt, the indefatigable head

of that most valuable institution. My inquiries and numerous visits

on the subject awakened  deep interest in Mr. Hunt, and before

the summer was over      was arranged that  should accompany him

in his usual annual visit to the principal tin and other mines in

                                                              OF
                                                                                    PLATE XXXVI

FIG. 80. STATUARY AND CLOCK IN SIR HENRY BESSEMER'S HALL AT DENMARK HII.L
            VISIT TO CORNWALL                       287

ICornwall.  much needed this little holiday, and Mr. Hunt drove me

Inearly all round the county of Cornwall in an open phaeton, a journey

full of deep interest to me. My friend for so am proud to call him

was a positive living encyclopaedia, and neither the longest journey, nor

the lonely parlour of the village inn, was ever dreary with such

an agreeable companion. We visited some of the manganese mines,

which were not very promising, being situated in localities far removed

from shipping ports, to which their output must have been transported

by horse and cart over bad roads.

    IWhile Mr. Hunt pursued his professional duties, made a short

halt at Penzance, and rambled over the enormous granite rocks

Ileading down to Land's End. At some works in the district found
Ia pair of dwarf serpentine columns of great beauty, which purchased as a

memento of this most interesting journey. They are at present (1896) in
good company, for between them stands a massive pedestal, 4 ft. high,

made of Algerian onyx, forming the base of a large Parisian clock,

with a life-sized bronze figure holding a revolving pendulum. The

serpentine columns support busts of Enid and Prince Geraint from the
" Idylls of the King," sculptured in white Carrara marble. This group

stands on one side of the entrance-hall  of my residence (see Fig. 80,
                                         business-like review of all the
Plate XXXVI.).

       On my return to London a plain,

circumstances connected with the supply of manganese ore from Cornwall
was unsatisfactory. My old friend Galloway was getting on in years,

and not over-anxious to embark in new undertakings, while the pursuit

of my own business, and the spread of the process throughout Europe,

engrossed my whole attention. Thus time rolled on ; we made shift

with Franklinite, which was 40 per cent, richer in manganese than
Aspiegeleisen, but it was not all we could desire.
                                                    little later, it occurred

Ito me that oxide of manganese was a waste product in the manufacture

of chlorine and bleaching powder, and knew that the firm of Tennant

and Co., of St. Rollox, Glasgow, were most extensive manufacturers

of this article. At that time Mr. Rowan, of Glasgow, was making
IBessemer steel under a license from me, and
                                                    wrote to him saying
Ithat was coming down to Glasgow, and hoped that he would be
288                                                   HENRY BESSEMER

able to get me an introduction to Messrs. Tennant. In reply, Mr. Rowan
Iinvited me to come to his house and stay a week.
"Italking over the matter, he said :                                     did so, and, in

                                                      know a Mr. Henderson, who is

a good chemist, and is carrying out a scheme of his own at the works

of Messrs. Tennant and Co., where he is operating on iron pyrites, and
Ione of his waste products is pure iron in the form of powder.
                                                                                     will,

if you wish ask him to come and dine with us to-morrow."
          it,

                   I
     The next evening explained to Mr. Henderson how                     II       proposed

to manufacture an artificial metallic ore, consisting of iron and manganese,

by combining hematite, or white carbonate of iron, with oxide of

manganese, in equal proportions. These materials were to be held

together with clay, or with clay and lime, to form a fluid cinder,

either with or without the addition of carbonaceous matter.                       proposed

to mix these materials in common brickmaker's pug-mill, to dry the
a

   I
                     I it,

                                                   a
mixture in moderate-sized lumps, and to convert this artificial ore into

the metallic state in an ordinary blast furnace.                      I  told Mr. Henderson

that wanted some large firm to take up the manufacture, as had
                                                                                  I

no time to attend to                                and did not wish to make such manufacture
                                                    wanted was to be supplied with manganesian
  source of profit. All                                                  a
                                                                               a
alloy of iron, of not less than 50 per cent, of manganese, for my own

use and that of my licensees, who would most assuredly become large

purchasers. Mr. Henderson was very anxious to take the matter in

hand, but he feared to encounter the large cost of erecting complete

blast furnace plant. He said that he had no doubt he could produce

the alloy in less expensive furnace, and was willing to risk the cost
it

                   a
                         a

                                   I,

                           I
and trouble of doing so.                              on my part, gave up the idea of pressing

    upon Messrs. Tennant, as originally intended, and left the whole
matter in Mr. Henderson's hands. The result of this was that he

took out patent for manufacturing these rich manganese alloys in                     a

reverberatory gas - furnace, and so far succeeded as to produce alloys
containing from 20 to 25 per cent, of manganese, with which he supplied
our Sheffield firm until his works were, unfortunately, closed, owing to

the insolvency of the iron-founder on whose premises his furnace was

erected.

     Thus was inaugurated the manufacture of ferro-manganese, the
THE PRODUCTION OF BESSEMER PIG IRON                          289

Iproduction of which had followed up as closely as my many engage-

ments permitted, from the very first inception of the idea, dating from

the reading of a chapter on steel in Dr. lire's Dictionary of Arts

and Manufactures; followed by the perusal of Heath's patents, and

the evidence of the Sheffield steel-manufacturers given in one of Heath's
Ilaw suits, as published in Webster's Law Reports.
                                                    never lost sight

of the object, so successfully arrived at, which would have been

attained long before had not the inferior alloy, spiegeleisen, been an

article of commerce at once procurable ; this delayed the production

of an alloy specially suitable for the purpose. But, valuable as this

ferro-manganese really was, neither that, nor spiegeleisen, could make good

steel from the ordinary quality of pig iron used for the manufacture

of iron bars, nor from the hematite iron as then made, since the hematite

pig iron, like all other British pig, was greatly contaminated with

phosphorus, owing to the use of puddler's tap cinder to flux the hematite
Itore in the blast-furnace, and thus obtain a fluid cinder.
                                                             was not
Iuntil had, with the assistance of my own chemist, prescribed new

furnace charges, omitting tap cinder and substituting shale, and thus

producing Bessemer pig, that any British coke-made iron could be con-

verted by my process into good steel. The universal presence of

phosphorus was the primary barrier which stopped my way; and when

this difficulty was removed, by the absence of tap cinder from the hematite

furnaces, we could obtain pig iron which was as free from phosphorus

as the puddled bar iron used in Sheffield for conversion into steel ;

and with this Bessemer pig good steel could readily be made by my
process, when there was used in conjunction with it the well-known

remedy for red-shortness, carburet of manganese.

      In the meantime, our Sheffield works had commenced commercial

operations, and we made no secret that we used spiegeleisen for recar-

burising the converted metal. We patiently waited for the injunction
in Chancery that was to stop its use. But neither Mr. Mushet nor

others took any steps to enforce their patent rights. Another year or
two passed quietly by, and our steel works at Sheffield, and those of
our licensees, were daily increasing the quantity of Bessemer steel

placed upon the market. No attempt was made to prevent us using

                                                                                                                                        pP
290  HENRY BESSEMER

manganese ; but, nevertheless, for some months the air was filled with
Avague reports of legal proceedings.  " round-robin " had, it was said,

been filled up with subscribers to the extent of 10,000, and even high

legal luminaries and eminent engineers and experts in Great George

Street were supposed to be definitely retained. These rumours were

very vague ; nevertheless, they cropped up in various different quarters
Iover a period of many months.
                                personally took very little heed of

them, feeling absolutely secure in my patent claims ; no doubt a careful

search through a thousand old iron patents might unearth a few vague

expressions to which legal ingenuity, under the new light thrown upon

the subject by me, might give an outward appearance of similarity with

Imy invention ; but had always remembered that my claim was " to force

atmospheric air beneath the surface of crude molten iron until it was

thereby rendered malleable, and had acquired other properties common

Ito cast steel, while still retaining the fluid state." This felt absolutely
Icertain no man but myself had patented, and so slept soundly in spite
Iof rumour, which, however, did not doubt had some foundation.

    IFor a period of more than two and a-half years (1857-60) after

the date of Mr. Mushet's three manganese patents, had no intimation
of any kind that either I, or my licensees, were infringing any of these

patents. But about three or four months prior to the date when a

Ifurther 100 stamp was required to be impressed on them, to prevent their

forfeiture, received a letter from a Mr. Clare, of Birmingham, calling
himself Mr. Mushet's agent for the sale of steel, and requesting an

interview with me and my partner at my office in London on the

following morning. On his arrival, he explained the object of his
visit ; it was simply to say that Mr. Mushet was prepared to grant

me a license to use his manganese patents for a nominal sum ; he
Imerely wanted his rights acknowledged.
                                         then told Mr. Clare that we

considered that Mr. Mushet had acquired no rights under either of his

Ithree manganese patents, and that we entirely repudiated them.

also told him that we were anxious to meet any claims legally preferred ;

that we were prepared, on any day to be mutually arranged, to receive
Mr. Mushet and his solicitors and witnesses at the Sheffield Works ;

that we would allow them to see the crude iron converted and
EAELY EXPERIMENTS AT EBBW VALE                   291

re-carburised with spiegeleisen, made into an ingot and forged into a

Ibar, and that would personally take that bar to one of my customers

and sell it to him in their presence ; and then the prosecution of our
firm for infringement would be a very simple matter. This offer resulted
in Mr. Clare's retirement from my office, and after that interview we
never heard from him, or from Mr. Mushet, on the subject.

     It will be within the memory of my readers that when we had

got into full swing with the new process at Sheffield, and had been

successful not only in making high-class tool steel from Swedish charcoal

Ipig iron, but also mild steel for constructive purposes from Bessemer

pig, read a paper at the Institution of Civil Engineers, on which

occasion many beautiful samples of steel were    exhibited, made by my

process in France, in Sweden, and at Sheffield.   At the reading of this
Ipaper Mr. Thomas Brown, of whom
                                    have         frequently spoken, was

present.

      Referring to my process, Mr. Brown said that he had been
sanguine of its success, and had spent 7000 in endeavouring to carry
it out ; but he did not say that he had no license from me to make

this secret use of my invention. The annexed extract from the
Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers furnishes a report
of his remarks :

Mr. T. Brown said he had taken great interest in this process, when it was first

brought forward, after the meeting of the British Association, at Cheltenham. He had

been sanguine of its success, even in opposition to the opinion of others, who had no faith

in it from the commencement; and he had spent 7,000 in endeavouring to carry it out.

It appeared to be thought that the quality of the iron ore had an important influence

upon the success of the operation.  Now, he had succeeded in making samples, equal

perhaps to those exhibited, from spathose ores from the mines of the Ebbw Vale Company, in

the Brendon Hills, Somersetshire, with a mixture of Pontypool iron. But the difficulty

he experienced amounting, indeed, to an impracticability was in finding a completely

refractory material for the furnace. He was astonished at the price which had been stated

as that at which the article could be produced. He thought a very simple calculation was
sufficient to disprove it ; for the iron and the material, without manipulation, made up

the amount ; in fact, the article in its first state, supposing Indian pig-iron to be used, cost

6 10s. per ton. He did not wish to say anything which could be looked upon as dis-

couraging, because he had originally been one of the warmest supporters of the invention;

but he believed Mr. Bessemer was now falling into the same error as to cost as he had

done at Cheltenham. With regard to waste, under the most favourable circumstances, there
292                  HENRY BESSEMER

was a loss in the manufacture of nearly 40 per cent, of metal ; and on one occasion his
agent informed him that the whole of the metal was consumed, and that nothing but cinder

remained.

    I IIn 1862 thought had reason to fear the advent of a rival process

brought forward by Mr. George Parry, of the Ebbw Vale Iron Works,

whose name figures in a patent for the manufacture of iron and steel,

bearing date November 18th, 1861.           to this             Ipatent,  would
       Before making any further reference

remind those of my readers who are not practically acquainted with
the details of my steel process, that it consists in decarburising iron

which contains too much carbon to constitute steel, and in some cases

this process of decarburisation is carried through every grade of steel until

the carbon element is wholly removed, and soft malleable iron is the material

Iarrived at. Now, in describing this operation in my patent, made

use of the well-known and ordinary terms by which iron in its various

Istates of combination with carbon is commercially known ; thus, claimed

to force air into and beneath the surface of molten crude iron (that is,

molten iron as it leaves the blast furnace), or re-melted pig or cast iron

           re-melted, broken or useless castings). If, instead of using these
(that  is,

           I
                            I

                                                            it

                                                   I
trade terms, had said that claimed forcing air beneath the surface of

carburet of iron, this would, in scientific language, not only have included

these three ordinary qualities of iron, but would have embraced any

and every compound of iron and carbon from which desired to eliminate

the latter, and which was, in fact, the real object, meaning, and intention

of my invention.

     It must be remembered that my royalty of two pounds per ton

on all ingots of iron or steel made by my process was holding out a
great premium for the production of carburet of iron for conversion
                                 a

                                             ;

                                              it
into steel, which, from the nature of its manufacture, might so far differ

from ordinary crude or pig iron as to remove from the actual trade

class of iron which  claimed to convert such iron, even         if        cost
           a
                                                                    it
               I
1    per ton more than commercial pig iron, would avoid my royalty

of X2, and save the patentee  1  per ton. The ostensible object of

this patent of Mr. George Parry for the manufacture of iron and steel

was to produce superior quality of steel by the employment of malleable
                      INTERVIEW WITH MISS MUSHET          293

scrap iron in lieu of pig, or crude iron ; for this purpose the scrap iron was

melted with coke in a small blast furnace, from which it was run into

a converter similar to mine, and blown with air forced upward through
it by tuyeres, the orifices of which were beneath the surface of the metal ;
all this was a pure and simple copy of my decarburising process. But

the malleable iron scrap could not be fused when distributed and mixed up
with lumps of coke in the blast furnace, without its absorbing about two

per cent, of carbon, and thus producing white iron or forge pig ; it would

also absorb some sulphur from the coke, and would contain that amount of

phosphorus which is always present in ordinary British bar - iron, and

which is an inadmissible quantity in cast steel. The metal thus produced

would, in fact, be crude iron, although the various impurities present

might differ in proportion from those in ordinary blast furnace iron.

Such iron would, further, be deficient in that necessary heat-producing

element, silicon, which is always present in considerable quantity in all pig-
iron suitable for the converting process ; and this, combined with the
deficiency of carbon, would form an absolute barrier to its conversion

into fluid mild steel, as the necessary heat could not be produced from such
a quality of carburet of iron. This process, as might have been expected,

proved unsuccessful.

One more incident referring to my relations with Mr. Mushet
Iremains to be chronicled before
                                  close this Chapter. In December,

1866, one of my clerks announced the visit of a young lady, who did not

send in her name, but wished to see me personally. She was asked

into my private office, and, on my going to her, she gave the name

of Mushet. She told me that the gravest misfortune had overtaken

her father, and that without immediate pecuniary help their home would
be taken from them. She said : " They tell me you use my father's
I Iinvention, and are indebted to him for your success."
                                                  said : " use

what your father had no right to claim ; and if he had the legal

position you seem to suppose, he could stop my business by an injunction

to-morrow, and get many thousands of pounds' compensation for my

infringement of his rights. The only result which followed from your

I Ifather taking out his patents was that they pointed out to me some
rights which  already possessed, but of which     was not availing
294                 HENRY BESSEMER

myself. Thus he did me some service, and even for this unintentional

Iservice cannot live in a state of indebtedness ; so please let me know
Iwhat sum will render your home secure, and will give it you." She
Ithen handed me a paper setting forth the legal claim against him ;

at once took out my cheque-book and drew for the amount, viz.,

  377 14s. 10d., and handed it to her.   She thanked me in   a faltering
                                        interview with Miss
Ivoice as bade her good afternoon.                           IMushet,

      On joining my partner after this

explained to him what had occurred ; he listened to me with surprise,
Iand with more impatience than
Ithought that what               had ever seen him evince.        He

                    had done was most unfortunate and imprudent,

since from Miss Mushet's words it was evident that the idea was abroad
Ithat
       had in some way taken advantage of her father. He feared
                                                                         I
lest my cheque should be considered evidence of my indebtedness.

was much distressed to find my friend Longsdon so much annoyed,
Ifor a more conscientious and just man never knew ; he was, however,
I Isomewhat reassured when
                    told him that       considered it a purely

personal matter, and had, of course, drawn the cheque on my private

bankers. He said he was glad it could never appear as an act of the
Ifirm, though he thought it would be long before
                                                  should hear the

last of it.

     Events proved that he was right, for not many months elapsed
I(about 1867) before a friend
                                 believe a relation of Mr. Mushet
Iwrote asking me to make Mushet a small allowance.
                                                    objected to do
Ithis at first, but afterwards yielded, though did not then care to give

my reasons for doing so. There was a strong desire on my part to

make him my debtor rather than the reverse, and the payment had

other advantages : the press at that time was violently attacking my

patent, and there was the chance that if any of my licensees were

thus induced to resist my claims all the rest might follow the example,

and these large monthly payments might cease for such a period as the

Icontest in the law courts might last. The annoyance, if nothing else,
would have been very great, and  had neither time nor patience to

wage a paper war from year's end to year's end with unscrupulous

writers. In the hope that an allowance to Mr. Mushet might have the
THE DEATH OF MR. MTJSHET  295

Ieffect of restraining these attacks on me, offered to pay him 300 a
Iyear, aiming at abating an intolerable nuisance which had no other

means of preventing. While we were paying over 3000 per annum
in the form of income tax, the 300 was but a small additional tax on

Imy resources, so allowed it to drag on until Mr. Mushet's decease, in

1891, having thus paid him over 7000. So, naturally, ends this part
of the history of my invention, as far as Mr. Mushet is concerned.
                CHAPTER XIX

                             EBBW VALE

I~TN the preceding Chapter   have referred to Mr. George Parry,

-*- who was furnace manager at the Ebbw Vale Works in 1857. In

that year he applied for a patent having for its object the decarburation

of crude iron, by blowing forcibly down upon it in a closed chamber

without fuel, instead of blowing up through as in my process this patent,a it,it it ;
however, was not completed. In 1861, as already stated, Mr. Parry took

another patent for making carburet of iron in small blast furnace, the iron

so produced containing some portion of all the ordinary constituents
of pig iron, but differing in their proportions in consequence of this
                                        ;

difference  it  was proposed to convert this iron into steel by blowing

air up through the fluid in closed vessel, and to make          into ingots
                a

precisely in the manner directed in my patents.  I  think         was quite

natural that efforts at competition on these and other lines should be made

persistently; my process was advancing with rapid strides in every State in

Europe, and immense profits were being realised in this country by the

proprietors of ironworks who had taken licenses under my patents
I

              a
                                         a
                                                         9

                               I

                                                                                     it

                                                                                                                                                             a;
in fact, thousands of tons of Bessemer steel rails had been sold at 18

to 20 per ton. Some two or three years had glided away after the

date of Mr. Parry's second patent, which had been quite forgotten by me.

had at this time (about 1864) occasion to go to Birmingham on business,

and had left Euston at P.M.  was quietly reading my newspaper in

the snug corner of first-class compartment, containing only two other

occupants beside myself. These were two young gentlemen, who appeared

much elated at some success, or contemplated success       might be

race,       Stock Exchange bargain, or any other matter of ordinary

interest. Being quite young men they were naturally very enthusiastic,

and somewhat loud in their conversation, which rather disturbed
                  A MOMENTOUS JOURNEY  297

my reading. After some remarks by one of them, the other

Iexclaimed, in a very loud tone, " wonder what the devil Bessemer

will say?" There could be no mistake as to this plain reference to me,

Isince, with the exception of the members of my family, alone answered

to that name. It then occurred to me for the first time that all this

Iexcited language and jubilation had some reference to me ; had not

the remotest idea as to what had previously been said, or to what it

referred. By this time we had reached Watford, and as the train went

Ion kept my paper before me, but could not prevent my attention
Ibeing directed to the lively sallies of these young men. Little by little,

    became conscious that the exciting cause of this boisterous hilarity

was some new joint-stock company that was to be floated in two
Itor three days.
                  might be a gas company, a brewery, or anything
Ielse, for up to this point had no indication of its nature, and only

wondered why they should question as to how Bessemer would

receive the news. But one at a time words were dropped that startled

me not a little, and riveted my attention to their conversation, which was

very much veiled, as though the scheme, whatever it might be, were

to be kept a profound secret at present from the outer world. But

here and there some casual word or two was dropped, about mines and

works, and a journey up from Wales, and what David Chadwick had

said about all the shares being taken up in two days for certain. Thus

I Isoon began to grasp the meaning of the fragments had heard, and

to fit these disjointed sentences together ; but there was no absolute

Icertainty that had guessed the true meaning.

       We had by this time arrived at Leighton, and my fellow-travellers got

Iout, as supposed, to take some refreshment, but the train went on without
I Ithem, and was left alone to think over this curious incident. Then

remembered that Mr. Joseph Robinson, the manager of the Ebbw Vale

Company's London offices, lived at Leighton. These young men might

Iprobably be his sons ; and this formed another startling confirmation of the

theory had arrived at, viz., that the Ebbw Vale Iron Works were

going, in a few days, to be formed into a joint-stock company, to take over

Ithe works and mines and the other property of the present owners, and that

Mr. David Chadwick, whose name distinctly heard, was the financial

                                                                                                                         QQ
298                     HENRY BESSEMER

Iagent employed to form the company.    was not long in realising all that
Ithis meant to me, and
                        saw that it was necessary to take immediate
Isteps to protect myself. Hence became very impatient to arrive at the
Inext station, which was Blisworth, and there got out. It was now
Iabout 11 P.M., and the next up train was nearly due.
                                                       had by this

time worked myself into a considerable state of excitement, and paced

the station platform so rapidly as to attract the attention of the station-

master, who asked me if anything were wrong, or if he could do any-
I Ithing for me.
       said, " No ; have heard some news on my way down

which renders my immediate return to London advisable." The up
Itrain soon arrived, and conveyed me back to Euston.
                                                       took a cab to
IDenmark Hill, where arrived about 2 A.M., and somewhat alarmed my

wife by my return home at such an unseemly hour. Sleep did not

come readily that night, my mind was too much disturbed ; but in the
Iquiet hours of the early morning calmly reviewed the whole situation,
Iand rehearsed every detail of the plan of campaign. Then got a
Icouple of hours' sleep, and by the time breakfast was over
                                                             felt

sufficiently refreshed, and fully nerved, to carry out the plan which,
I Iafter renewed consideration,
                        had determined to follow.          now fully
Irealised the disadvantageous position
                                        should be placed in if this
Icompany, with a couple of millions capital, was formed and
                                                             was

left to fight them single-handed. Even now, after the lapse of so
many years, this marvellous revelation, coming as it did at the precise

Imoment necessary to be effective, seems more like an act of eternal
justice than one of the ordinary affairs of life.  was startled by it at
Ithe time, and, momentous as were the interests involved,
                                                           was not

unnerved, but, on the contrary, felt greatly encouraged ; for though not

possessed of that very great physical courage natural to more robust
Imen,
       have ever stood firmer in the face ot a great, an appalling

danger, than when encountering some of the smaller risks we all have

to run at times.

    IOn the morning following my unexpected return to London, paid
I Ia visit to Mr. David Chadwick, at 1 1 A.M. ; said had called to discuss

an important question in relation to the great iron and steel company

that was to be formed to purchase and take over the Ebbw Vale
         INTERVIEW WITH MR. DAVID CHADWICK                          299

IIronworks and Mines. He started with surprise, but had so directly
I Iassumed the fact that he made no effort to conceal it.
                                                         said : "

wish to call your attention to some facts with which you are pro-

bably wholly unacquainted, but which most nearly concern your personal

I Iinterest, as well as that of myself and of your Ebbw Vale clients."
   then told him, as briefly as could, of the attempts that had been

made to destroy the value of my invention by cornering manganese,

and thus to force me to sell my patents for less money than they were
Iworth.
         also referred to Mr. George Parry's patents, neither of which

could be worked without directly infringing mine ; therefore that the

proposed company could not manufacture cheap cast steel without a

license from me, and, what was of still greater importance to him and
to them, was the fact that the New Ebbw Vale Steel and Iron Company

could not even be formed at all without my consent and permission.

Mr. Chadwick, not unnaturally, doubted this confident expression,
Iand said: "That's got to be proved."
                                       said: "You must excuse my
Iplain speaking, and allow me to call a spade a spade ;
                                                         have but to

express what is my determination, unless my terms of surrender are

accepted. Do not suppose me weak enough to calculate on gaining a
Isingle point by mere bluff ;
                               know, by reputation,  that you are a

very unlikely person to be led away by such means.   I also know, on

the other hand, that you might readily enough in your own mind
come to this conclusion : ' Well, let Bessemer do what he likes in law ;

it will take him some months, but we shall have got our capital

in a few days, and shall be in good fighting trim, with 2,000,000

to back us, and can thus afford to laugh at any threat from him.'
I INow this is just the very thing have set myself to frustrate.
                                                                    can

fight the question now with 100, and obtain a victory in two or three

Idays, but if once let you get your capital, it might cost me 10,000,
Iand a couple of years' struggle in the Law Courts ; so you see must

choose this very day to fire the first shot, unless your clients make an

immediate and unconditional surrender ; or unless you hold out a flag

of truce for two days to enable you to communicate with your clients."
If I" Now there are two ways of carrying on such a war.
Ibent on fighting,                                       were

                    should mask my batteries, and so fall upon you
300                         HENRY BESSEMER

Iunawares, you thinking that my armament was very small ; but have
I Ino desire to fight unless
                            am driven to do so, in which case should

know how to defend myself. There is a great disadvantage in some

cases in allowing your enemy to underrate your strength and to rush

headlong into war, hence it is my policy just now to show you how
I Icompletely
     have you in my power. What             want, and must have,

is the giving up by the Company of all obstructive patents in their

possession, and the immediate taking out of a license from me to use

my patents instead."
     If I" this is refused, what is my inevitable course ?
                                                            go from here

direct to my solicitor, who can readily, in two hours, make a formal

written application for an injunction in the Court of Chancery to

restrain the company owning these patents, or any new company formed
Ifor that purpose, from using them. Meanwhile,
                                                   get a thousand blue

and red posters printed, announcing the fact that I, Henry Bessemer,

have applied for four separate injunctions in the Court of Chancery

to restrain the Ebbw Vale Companies using certain patents for making

Isteel, which they are in possession of; and, further, that have abso-

lutely refused to give a license to the present or any future Ebbw

I IVale Company to use any of my patent processes for the manufacture
of cast steel. These facts  can legally publish ;  could, before the

day was out, cover every hoarding in the City with these staring

placards, and before the members of the Stock Exchange arrive at

Itheir offices to-morrow morning, could have fifty cabs perambulating

Cornhill and the principal City thoroughfares with similar placards

posted on them, as practised at election times, and distributing hand-

bills by the thousand ; if you are of opinion that under these conditions

you can get 2,000,000 capital subscribed for a New Ebbw Vale Steel

Company, you may try and do so.

      "On the other hand your clients, if this altered state of things

is communicated to them in a quiet, businesslike way by their own

financial agent, will never be mad enough to lose such a chance of realising

so vast a sum in ready cash for their old works and plant.           The
       " Iron-making, as far as rails are concerned, is played out.

company must make steel or shut up the works, and they have already
ULTIMATUM OFFERED TO THE EBBW VALE COMPANY                      301

put it off too long. My process has rendered large buildings filled with

long rows of puddling furnaces of little value ; and weak old-fashioned

rolling-mills, that would do for iron, must all be replaced by stronger

and more modern mills for rolling steel. Your clients must be fully

aware of these facts, and they will never risk their present chance of
Iselling the works for the mere pleasure of opposing me.
                                                          know this

as well as they do, and there lies my source of power.    Whereas

their unconditional surrender would make everything smooth, their own

best interests would be secured, you would get your commission for the
Iformation of the company, and
                                    should get my royalty for all the
Isteel they make. Such is the brief outline of the steps
                                                          am bound

to take if my offer is rejected."    Ithat  should do ? " said  Mr.

       " What, then, do you propose

Chadwick.
       " Simply this. Go and see your clients, show them clearly their

altered position, and absolutely refrain from taking one single step in
Iadvance until
                have been brought face to face with the owners ot

the property, or their fully-authorised delegates ; and if you pledge

Iyourself to this course of action, will, on my part, remain absolutely

quiescent ; but, please remember, that a single word in the public press

will bring me into full activity."

Mr. Chadwick was much too keen a man of business not to recog-

nise to its fullest extent the imminent peril in which the prosperity of

Ithe new company was involved, and said : " will at once see my clients

on the subject, and will wholly abstain from any further steps for the

formation of this company until they have consented, or refused, to
Idiscuss the matter with you. But
                                     have little doubt that they will

come up to London, probably the day after to-morrow." Thus far we
Iwere mutually pledged, and at parting,
                                         suggested that it would be

far more agreeable to all parties concerned if they would meet me with
a plain " Yes " or " No " to my demands, and so avoid a discussion that
Imight easily terminate in many unpleasant words.
                                                   was the more

anxious to do this, as every member of the then Ebbw Vale Company
was wholly unknown to me, even by name, except Mr. Abraham Darby
and Mr. Joseph Robinson ; and, although very plain speaking had
302  HENRY BESSEMER

been necessary in the case of Mr. Chadwick, in order to fully impress

him with the gravity of the crisis, it was most desirable that the

vendors should be put in possession of these facts in a quiet businesslike

manner through their own financial agent, and be thus able to calmly

review their position from this new standpoint, make up their minds

what course they intended to pursue before seeing me, and thereby avoid

any heated discussions on the subject.
     IOn the second day after this interview with Mr. Chadwick,
                                                                 met
Iby appointment at his offices, Mr. Abraham Darby, who was, believe,

the chief proprietor of the Ebbw Vale Iron Works ; his partner,
Mr. Joseph Robinson, was also present. We met on a friendly business

footing ; my terms as given to Mr. Chadwick had been accepted, and

we had merely to discuss the few details that were necessary. They

laid great stress on the large sums of money their patents and their

Iexperiments had cost them, setting it down, if remember correctly, at

40,000. Then this difficulty arose : Mr. George Parry's patent was

not in their hands, and 5,000 must be paid to give them an absolute
Icontrol over it. This undertook to pay, and on their arranging to go
Ilargely into the manufacture of Bessemer steel,
                                                  agreed to deduct

25,000 from their first royalties, in lieu of paying money for the

Ipurchase of all their patents. After this deduction was made, they

were to pay me the same royalties as charged to other licensees on all

the steel they produced.                                         The

    IThus the two great objects had in view were accomplished.

signing of my deed of license took the sting out of my opponents, for
it contained what lawyers call an " estoppel clause," in which they, under

their hands and seals, acknowledged the perfect validity of all my patents :
" That they were new and useful," and " were sufficiently described in my
specifications," and that " they were all duly specified within the time

prescribed by law." This clause deprived them of the possibility of

attacking my patents, or refusing to pay the royalties agreed upon in
their deed of license.

    IIt was also important that should get the assignments of all their

patents. Not that these patents were in themselves worth the paper

they were written on, but so long as they existed and were the property
            AGREEMENT WITH THE EBBW VALE COMPANY  303

of some other persons, they were fighting material, and could be utilised

to keep me in the Law Courts possibly for a couple of years. This might

Ihave cost me an amount of money immensely greater than the loss should

sustain by the Ebbw Vale Company's not paying me a royalty on their

first year's production of steel ; which was, in fact, only the loss of what
Inever would have been mine if had let them go on their own way
            IUnder these conditions
unopposed.                           withdrew all opposition to the

formation of the new steel company, and after a not very long interval
I began to receive from the Ebbw Vale Company large sums quarterly
Iin the form of royalty.
                              cannot, at this distant period, find all the
Ireturns of the sums they paid me, but am under the impression that
I received from them altogether in royalties between 50,000 and 60,000;

added to this they had given up all the patents which had been held

for years suspended over me.

Thus happily was removed the last barrier to the quiet commercial

progress of my invention throughout Europe and America an invention

which from its infancy has steadily grown in extent and importance, until

the production of Bessemer steel has reached an annual amount of not

less than 10,500,000 tons, equal to an average production of 33,500 tons

in every working day of the year, and having a commercial daily value

of a quarter of a million sterling.
                        CHAPTER XX

                    THE BESSEMER SALOON STEAM-SHIP

IT71EW persons have suffered more severely than                           have from sea-

    sickness, and on a return voyage from Calais to Dover in the

year 1868, the illness commencing at sea continued with great severity

during my journey by rail to London, and for twelve hours after my

Iarrival there. My doctor saw with apprehension the state was in. He

remained with me throughout the whole night, and eventually found

it necessary to administer small doses of prussic acid, which gradually
Iproduced the desired effect, and
                                   slowly recovered from this severe

attack. My attention thus became forcibly directed to the causes of

this painful malady, which I, in common with most other persons,

attributed to the diaphragm being subjected to the sudden motions
of the ship. Hence, as a natural sequence, its cure appeared only

to require that some mechanical means should be devised whereby

that part of the ship occupied by passengers should be so far isolated

as to prevent it from partaking of the general rolling and pitching
Imotions. In this way
                        entered, almost without knowing                   it,  into an

investigation of the subject and gradually, as my ideas were developed,
                        ;

                                                  is

                                           I
                                                                       a
aI  determined to make a model vessel, small enough to be placed on

    table, and to which the usual pitching motion of ship was imparted

by clockwork.

    On this model was arranged a suspended cabin, supported on separate

axes, placed at right angles to each other.                             obtained a patent in

December, 1869, for this invention, which represented in two sectional

engravings, Figs. 81 and 82, on Plate XXXVII. The cabin, shown in

the illustrations,  is  circular in form, with a hemispherical ceiling or roof,

whose centre coincides with the axis of suspension. Seats are arranged
all around its circumference, with gallery above, provided also with
                        a
                                                                                     PLATE XXXVII

    FIG. 81. SECTION THROUGH EARLY FORM OP BESSEMER SALOON, IN STILL WATER
FIG. 82. SECTION THROUGH EARLY FORM OF BESSEMER SALOON, WITH VESSEL ROLL (NO
                   FIRST DESIGN OF THE BESSEMER SALOON                                                                          305

seats, while the circular floor is large enough to serve as a promenade.

A heavy counterbalance weight is suspended vertically below the floor

of the cabin, to retain it in a horizontal plane. In Fig. 81, the cabin is

shown in the position it would naturally assume when the ship is in

dock, and in Fig. 82 in the position it would maintain when the ship is

                  with its floor quite horizontal. Immediately beneath
isrolling, that

            it it,
                  it

                          is,
                                  a is

                                   if

                                                                 a
the large pendulous mass which controls the cabin                            shown concave
                                                                             a is
iron surface, turned quite smooth, and fixed to the ship. This surface
    made with a curve, the centre of which coincides with that of the          I
                                                                                                 a
axis of the cabin, and the pendulous mass has a heavy cylindrical weight
                                                                                            I
within     which   shod with wood. This can be let down so as to

come lightly in contact with the concave dish or surface, or be pressed

down upon      by screw,  desired, thus acting as friction brake to

prevent the cabin from acquiring                                    swinging motion, or when required,

to lock    fast to the ship. There were many other details planned,

which need not be now entered into, as the description have already

given will serve to show what were the crude ideas presented to my

mind in the early stages of the investigation of this subject. All this

was hurried on in short time, and felt determined to put the general
scheme to the test of actual experiment at sea, trusting to remove
          it

                          aa
                                   a

                                  I
defects in the details as experience showed them to be necessary.

therefore planned  small steamer suitable for carrying this circular

saloon, and entered into contract with Messrs. Maudslay, Sons and Field

to build       for me for 2,975. This sum was further augmented

by slight alterations of the original plan, bringing up the net cost
of the vessel to 3,061, which was duly paid on the delivery of the

ship to me at Greenwich.

While this small steamer was being built, continued to study the
                                                                    I
subject more deeply, and in doing so,                                     I
                                                                    felt some serious misgivings

as to the motions of translation of certain parts of the ship, depending

on the distance of such parts from the centre about which the vessel

rolled and pitched, and which would tend to set up an oscillating motion

of the cabin.     saw was necessary to place the axis of the cabin as
               I

                           it

                                                                                                                             R
near as possible to the point about which the vessel pitched and rolled,

and then the question of absolute personal control of the cabin by a

                                                                                                                                        it
306                                    HENRY BESSEMER

steersman arose in my mind. This gradually shaped itself into a necessity,

Iif perfect quietness in the cabin was to be ensured. These improvements
were of vital importance, and          could not hide from myself the fact

that the small steamship which was then being built for me by Messrs.

Maudslay, Sons and Field could not be so altered as to give these
Iideas a fair trial.
                        therefore abandoned all intention of fitting up my

suspended saloon in
        it
                            it,

                        II
                                             I it

                                                                I
                        and eventually sold                               in an unfinished state

for what would fetch, so lost about 2,000 by the first move.                                                    was

not, however, discouraged, but on the contrary                                   felt more confidence

than ever in the success of the plans that time and study had so far

developed.              could not venture out to sea to try my experiments

       The fact that
        a

                I
was a great drawback to me, and to meet this difficulty                                             determined
                                                                          I
                                                                                     I
to make large working model, to try the mechanical motions and other
details of my plans, on land. For this purpose constructed the central

part of a fair-sized vessel, omitting the bows and stern portions, which,

as will be hereafter shown, had nothing to do with the trials to be made.

     This model had 20 ft. beam and was 20 ft. long that
                                                                          ;                         represented

                                                                                       is,

                                                                                        it

   slice cut, as were, out of the central part of a vessel as large as the
a

                    it

ItThames above-bridge passenger steam-boats.                              was fitted into a square

opening or pit, formed in the ground to such a depth as to represent
its natural immersion had been placed in water, the level of the land
             it
                                   it
surrounding   consequently representing the level of the water in which

the model was assumed to be floating. This structure was erected in

a  meadow at the rear of my residence at Denmark Hill, and was supported

on axes in the line of the keel                                         was made to roll by a steam engine
        a

               it,
                     a

                              a

                                                                       ;

                                         it

                                                         a
actuating crankshaft and connecting-rod, so arranged as to give gentle
                                                                                                    is,
                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                             a
motion to the whole fabric, which weighed several tons. The angle

of roll was 15 deg. on each side of horizontal line that                                            complete
                                                                          a

                                                                                                 ;
roll of 30 deg. In the central part, and on level with the deck of this

model ship, was small saloon 12 ft. by 14 ft. inside, with seats along

each side of            and row of small windows above them. This cabin

was large enough to conveniently accommodate dozen persons at time.
                                                                          a                         a
                                                                              a
The ceiling was flat, and its upper surface formed little promenade deck,

with light iron hand-rail all round it. In the centre of the cabin
     a
PLATE XXXVIII

                                                       CO
                                                       00
00

o
                  WORKING MODEL OF THE BESSEMER SALOON                   307

a small sunk space, surrounded by a railing, permitted the steersman to

stand with his head and shoulders a foot or two above the floor, and

before him was a spirit-level placed in position at right angles to the

axis on which the model ship was made to roll. The steersman had

a small double handle immediately in front of him, very like the steering

bar of an ordinary bicycle ; this handle actuated an equilibrium valve,

so easy of motion that a mere child could work it. The valve admitted

water under pressure to one side of a piston, and allowed its escape from

the other side, thus silently and quietly controlling power capable of

holding in absolute check any amount of force tending to put the floor
                                  If twelve or fourteen persons walked
out of a true horizontal plane.

suddenly over in a body from one side of the cabin to the other, it made

no perceptible difference, for the steersman had only to watch the spirit-

level, and by gently moving the handle keep the bubble permanently
Ifin the centre, and thus insure absolute steadiness.
                                                       the steersman took

his hands off the steering handle, the cabin immediately partook of

the motion of the model, which was fully equal to the roll of a small

ship in a heavy sea. This sudden transition from absolute quiet to a
                                                              of " Stop        "
most  unpleasant  roll generally  resulted  in  loud  shouts             her
                                                                              !

from the persons seated in the cabin : an order which, after well shaking

up the passengers, the steersman always attended to. He applied his

hand once more to the lever, when absolute quietness was restored, to

the relief of all. As the mechanical demonstration of my scheme, the

effect was perfect. This experiment was witnessed and the result admitted

by some of the first engineers and scientists of this country, many of

whom will recognise in the two illustrations, Figs. 83 and 84, on

Plates XXXVIII. and XXXIX.), a correct representation of the

apparatus they did me the honour to inspect at my house in 1869.

      To facilitate entering and leaving the cabin at all times, notwith-

standing the continued rolling motion of the model, half a dozen steps

led to a small fixed staging supported by posts driven into the ground.

Between this platform and the moving hull were two stout circular steel

rods, working in sockets at each end, horizontally parallel to each other.

A number of flat oak bars, having a small round hole near each end,

were slipped on to these steel bars, a rubber washer between adjacent
308                           HENRY BESSEMER

bars keeping them a short distance apart, and the whole forming a

sort of grille extending from the fixed stage to the moving hull, and

gradually partaking of the slope of the latter ; thus, any person could

walk with perfect ease from the fixed to the moving part, or vice versd.

      My idea of an improved Channel service became generally known,

I Iand had the satisfaction of seeing that was not alone in my opinions

as to its ultimate results. My plans were submitted to the judgment

of practical men of the highest mechanical ability. All was said that

could be said theoretically on the subject, pro and con., and the time
Ifor action had now arrived.
                              therefore laid my plans before the well-

known financial agents, Messrs. Chad wick, Adamson, and Co., who

undertook the formation of a limited joint stock company, to run

steamships between England and France, provided with saloons steadied

by the hydraulic apparatus secured under my patents. The prospectus

was issued, and in due course the company was registered, with a nominal

capital of 250,000, the amount actually subscribed being much below
Ithat required even to build the first ship : a fact to which
Ibut which                                                     objected,

            was assured, was an everyday occurrence.     My original

intention as patentee was to grant licenses to shipbuilders and passenger

steam companies to use my invention, charging a small extra sum for all

passengers booking for the saloon. But the company just formed insisted

on having the entire monopoly of the ships running between the English

and French ports, thus absorbing a great part of the value of the patent,

and shutting it up until after their first ship came into use. In order
Ito meet this sweeping demand,
                                consented to take 10 per cent, on the

cost of the ships, which was to be paid concurrently with the remittances
Ito the shipbuilders, and
                              further  Iconceded to the company a share
                                            thus received no cash payment
of my half-crown per head royalty.
Ifor this share or participation in my patent, although
                                                         had already

spent considerably over 5,000 in the construction of a steam-ship and

other models, trials and patents, etc. Notwithstanding this, I was

Iamong the first subscribers to the company's capital, and as soon as the
shares were ready for issue,  applied for 10,000 in ordinary shares,
I Iwhich on allotment
            paid for in cash, the best evidence          could give

of my entire confidence in the Bessemer Saloon Ship Company.
                          THE DESIGN OF THE HULL             309

IAt the time when the company was formed,         was much pressed
Ito become its chairman, but declined to do so, or even to take the
Iposition of director, because
                                had not only a great interest in the
ISaloon Ship Company, but had other interests as a patentee, which
Imight possibly come in conflict with those of the company.
                                                             felt well
Iassured that no man can serve two masters, and emphatically declined to
Iplace myself in so false a position. At the same time, also declined

to make myself the servant of the company in any way ; but as they

desired my advice and opinion on matters connected with the saloon

Iand its machinery, accepted the office of Consulting Engineer without

fees.

     Mr. (afterwards Sir) E. J. Reed, who then held an important

position in Earle's Shipbuilding Company at Hull, was appointed Naval

Constructor to the Bessemer Saloon Ship Company, and we also had on
our Board of Directors, Admiral Sir Spencer Robinson, who was an

influential Director of Earle's Shipbuilding Company. It was understood

that the ship in all its details should be designed by Mr. Reed, subject

to such modifications as the necessities of the saloon imposed, and which

were few and simple, although they undoubtedly introduced important

structural difficulties.
IFirst,
         decided that the saloon, as far as hydraulic control was

concerned, should move on axes parallel with the line of the keel, and

that pitching in the short sea of the channel should be reduced, as far

as possible, by the great length of the ship. It occurred to me that the

bows of the ship would not be lifted so high in meeting a high wave,

or mound, of water, in front of her, if she had a low freeboard. The

forecastle would then receive part of the weight of the mound of water,

and not be floated upward to the same extent as if constructed with

high bows, which might be surrounded by a heavy rising wave. This

was simply a landsman's view of the conditions to be met, in which,

however, Mr. Reed concurred, and designed his ship with a low freeboard

at both ends, as she was intended to run in and out of the harbours

without turning round.

       Secondly, to reduce the amount both of pitching and rolling of the

Isaloon, required a space equal to 70 ft. in length and 30 ft. in breadth
310  HENRY BESSEMER

in the centre of the ship for the reception of the saloon, which was

to extend so low down as to bring its turning axis as near as possible
on the line about which the centre would roll. These conditions were
provided for by Mr. Reed, and it only remained for me to design
the saloon and the governing machinery required, all the drawings and
plans for which occupied many months of close application. Here it may
be desirable to refer generally to the means employed for governing the

Imotions of the saloon ; for this purpose have given an engraved copy

from one of my old drawings (Fig. 85, Plate XL.), showing a cross-section

through the centre.
       Two large A-shaped frames, shown partly by dotted lines, were

securely bolted to the main framing of the ship ; these frames were several
feet apart, and were held together by stretcher-bars, which passed through
curved slots in the webs of a horizontal pair of large " working beams."
There were strong angle-brackets formed on the upper side of these beams,
which supported the axis about which the saloon moved, similar axes
being provided at or near each end of the saloon floor coinciding in position
with the central axis, as shown on the engraving, thus firmly supporting
the weight of the saloon by strong axes and carrying frames at three

points in its length. It will be seen that at each end of the large working

beams, and coupled in the space between them, were two hydraulic
cylinders hanging vertically from massive girders connected with the main
deck frames, so that any movement or oscillation of the working beams
permitted these hydraulic cylinders and their piston rods to oscillate

slightly, and follow the radial motion of their beam ends. A suitable

set of hydraulic force pumps, driven by a separate steam engine, was
so arranged as to furnish a constant supply of water under any required

uniform pressure.
       The " steersman," or controller, was provided with a handle controlling

a set of delicately-balanced equilibrium valves, forming a connection
between the water in the air vessel, or pressure chamber, of the force

pumps and the vertical hydraulic cylinders, which were always kept
full of water on both sides of their pistons by means of a loaded valve
at the discharge end of the exhaust pipe, but with a very much greater
pressure on one side of each piston than on the other. Things being thus
PLATE XL

                        W
                       PP

           ow3

                 o
               s

                        ^
                      OQ
                       fc,
                    o
                      OQ

           |OHQ

                       H
THE CONTROL OF THE BESSEMER SALOON  311

arranged, it will be readily understood that if the ship were in harbour

and at rest, the steersman by moving his handle so as to admit water

under great pressure into the lower part of the left-hand cylinder, would

expel the water which was above the piston through the loaded valve. At

the same time the left-hand end of the beam would be forced downwards ;

and the valve would have admitted water under great pressure on the

upper side of the piston contained in the right-hand cylinder, thus forcing

or lifting up the right-hand end of the working beams, and so on. It

will be seen that if the floor of the saloon could be thus made to oscillate

on its axis by means of the hydraulic cylinders when the ship was in dock,

the reverse would take place when the ship was rolling at sea ; that is

while the ship rolled, the use of the hydraulic cylinders would enable the

floor of the saloon to remain horizontal. The distance through which a roll

takes place, and the time occupied in performing the roll, constantly vary ;

but by means of equilibrium valves under personal control, this variation

could be easily provided for. The spirit-level directly under the eye ol

the steersman instantaneously indicated to him any movement of the

floor from a true horizontal plane, by the travel of the bubble from the
Acentre towards one end.
                          slight turn of the handle by the steersman

prevented further movement. All he had to do was to keep the bubble

in the centre of the gauge ; and it was found in the working model

erected at Denmark Hill that, when going as fast as ten complete rolls

per minute, and rolling through an angle of 30 deg., a position of the

floor not deviating more than 1 in. or 2 in. from the horizontal was

maintained with ease, and with absolute freedom from jerks, a result

which the vis inertia of the heavy mass forming this large saloon would
tend to still more favourably secure. The larger the flywheel attached

to irregularly -moving machinery the more perfectly are these irregularities

controlled by it ; and it must always be borne in mind that all oscillating

motions in nature commence very slowly and acquire a maximum velocity,

gradually becoming less rapid, until motion absolutely ceases in that
direction. Then the infinitely slow reaction in the opposite direction

takes place, and goes on until a maximum velocity is again arrived at.
Let anyone for a minute or two watch the beautiful motions of the

pendulum of a common clock ; there is no jerk, it does not travel through
312                                                               HENRY BESSEMER

its whole range at a uniform speed and then start back in the same way,
but, like the oscillations of all heavy bodies, obeys those laws which bring
the control of oscillations in such bodies within the sphere of applied

mechanics.

       To prove the confidence felt by my colleagues in the certain success

Iof my scheme, cannot do better than reproduce here a letter from that

eminent authority, Sir E. J. Reed ; this letter was published in The

Times on November 26th, 1872.

                              To THE EDITOR OP "THE TIMES."

      SIR,

            The discussion upon Channel steamers has proceeded so far and taken such a form

in your columns that it seems proper for me, as the designer of the vessels which are to
Icarry Mr. Bessemer's saloon, to submit the following observations upon the subject.
                                                                                                                            should

have said nothing about the Dicey project had not one of the directors of the Dicey

Company made it necessary for the proposers of the Bessemer vessels to defend their work ;
Iand even now
               shall offer but a very few words upon                                 as the able letter of Colonel
                                                                  a
Strange, which you published on Saturday, contains nearly all that                ; it,necessary to say.

                                                                                            it

                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                it
a     believe the " Dicey " ship to be wrong for the following reasons               First, where one

   Iof the primary objectsto secure small draught of water, and therefore lightness of structure,
                        is
                                             very unusual weight of hull necessary, because
                                          a
the plan in question renders                                                                                                gives the

ship four sides instead of two, and introduces                    heavy superstructure for the purpose of

yoking the two half ships together; secondly, unless this superstructure             extremely well

designed and very strongly built,                                 will not keep the two half ships effectually together in
            ;

                                          it
heavy storm and their separation would be fatal to both thirdly, there                       great reason

to suppose that two half ships of equal size and large proportions, placed 30 ft. apart, and

yoked together, however propelled, would be circumstanced very unfavourably for high speed,

because of the interference with each other of the waves of displacement in retreating from

the inner bows fourthly, there                                    also much reason, and some experience, to suppose that
      a
                         ;

                            ;
                                                            is
such        vessel, propelled by an interior wheel, would be under very great additional dis-

advantages as regards the obtaining of extreme speed such vessels have, in fact, failed from

want of speed and, fifthly, the Dicey ship, being made (by the separation of the twin

portions) of very unusual breadth from stem to stern,                                peculiarly unadapted for entering
                                                                  a
                                                                           is        will only further add that

                                                                             I
the narrow harbours of Calais and Folkestone in bad weather.

the experiment which Admiral Elliot promises with twin Dicey steamer no bigger altogether
than " Citizen " boat will throw little or no light upon any one of the above questions and
      a                                                                                                                     ;

                                 is

                                                  a
                                                              is
the very fact that such  vessel                                   being prepared for the purpose of proving to the public

that the Dicey ship      right, when great size and speed are to be realized, strongly inclines

me to believe that its advocates have neither considered nor understood the real difficulties

that will oppose their success and frustrate their good intentions. In seeking to reduce rolling

they have looked past other equally important conditions.                         I  know Admiral Elliot has attempted

to silence the objections of mere ship-builders and engineers like myself by telling us that
                              SIR E. j. REED'S LETTER TO "THE TIMES"                           313

it is as a sailor that he contradicts us, and that it is in the name of sailors that he speaks ; but

I do not consider that a sailor is any better entitled than other persons to pronounce dogmatically
Iupon such questions as these, nor do believe that Admiral Elliot has authority to speak

in the name of the naval profession in this matter.

    I Inow come to the Bessemer ship, and will state as briefly as can what she is to

be, and why she has been made so.

The present discomforts of the Channel passage are almost wholly due to the smallness

of the present steamers, which have been kept of small dimensions and light draught to

enable them to frequent the French harbours of Calais and Boulogne ; and being so small,
                                                I will not say that these vessels are the best
they knock about terribly in rough weather.

that can be produced of their dimensions, but some of them are well designed, and no

improvements without increase of size would make them even approximately fit for the Channel

passenger service. The first thing to be done, therefore, is to build much larger vessels,

that is to say, vessels of much greater length and breadth, for the draught of water must

not be substantially increased. The limit of length has hitherto been fixed by the breadth

of the harbours, because the vessels, which must of necessity run in bow first, have had to be

turned round into the opposite direction, with bow seaward, before starting again.

"We must first, therefore, dispense with this necessity of turning the vessels round within

the harbours, and the only way to do this is to make them capable of steaming equally well

in either direction. Now, this, although not by any means so easy a thing to do as many

suppose, is nevertheless quite practicable. Both ends of such a vessel can be made quite
efficient as a bow, and equally efficient as a stern, provided the necessary steps are taken. This

has frequently been attempted, only to result in failure; it has less frequently been done

successfully. Those who underrate the difficulties fail ; those who truly estimate them and take

the necessary pains to meet them succeed. They occur in the hull, in the rudder, in the steering

gear, in the locking apparatus, in the engines, and in the paddle-wheels, and we believe

that in the Bessemer ship we have well considered and carefully met them all, and thu g
have secured the power of leaving harbour without turning round. We have consequently

escaped from the limit of length hitherto imposed, and have been made free to go to larger

dimensions. This is the first important step.

The dimensions we have adopted are : length, 350 ft. ; breadth at deck beam, 40 ft. ;

outside breadth across paddle-boxes, 65 ft. ; draught of water, 7J ft. On these dimensions we

have been able to provide for the Bessemer Saloon (the extra weight of which, with all

its appliances,   it, it is,in fact, not great), and for engines and boilers which will deliver more
                       it,
than 4000 horse-power. At this stage the Bessemer Saloon claims primary consideration, and we

have allotted to the central part of the ship for 70 ft. in length. This splendid saloon, and

all connected with            has been so well described already in your columns that will not add
                                                                      I

                                                                             it

                                                                                                        a
word respecting             except to say that  the mechanical difficulties of working  were far
                              is

                                       if
greater than they really are, the mechanical genius of Mr. Bessemer would be fully equal

to their mastery. My chief duty to make the ship thoroughly capable of sustaining the saloon,

and of giving ample support to its bearings. This duty has required, of course, novel and well-;
considered structural arrangements but more difficult things have been done in our ironclads,

and need not, therefore, dwell upon it. The saloon being in the centre, we had to place
I

the engines and boilers in some other position. They have been placed in duplicate portions

                                                                                        S
                                                                                            S
314                                                        HENRY BESSEMER

immediately before and abaft the saloon, the vessel consequently having two sets of paddle-
Iwheels.
          anticipate some disadvantage in point of speed from this arrangement, and have

accordingly provided somewhat more steam power than would otherwise have been needed ; not

much, however, because the loss will not, in my opinion, be more than a small fraction. As a

compensation we have the great advantages of avoiding the risks that attend the use of very

large forgings in paddle engines, and of securing the ship against total disablement by engine

accidents. The importance of this latter advantage to the owners of such a vessel is great.
     I now come to the low freeboard at the extremities.
                                                                                                  This feature was suggested during the

progress of the design by Mr. Bessemer, who considered that it would promote the longitudinal

steadiness of the vessel, or, in other words, reduce pitching. Now, had the vessel been intended
Ifor ocean purposes,
                      should have altogether dissented from this proposal, had Mr. Bessemer

made as he probably would not in that case have done.                                                feel as strongly as Admiral Elliot
I                                                                a
             it,
                 is                                                   I
                                                 a                       I

                                                        a
can possibly do that low freeboard at the bow of fast ocean steamer, or indeed of any ocean

steamer,  utterly wrong. In the case of the "Devastation"                                                  incurred much odium because

insisted on giving her forecastle, and carefully predicted that even with the forecastle she
                                                           I

would be deeply deluged forward by Atlantic seas                 I                                have seen the Holyhead packets, which

have additional rather than reduced freeboard forward, steam down the long slope of great
                                                                                                                             is a
wave in the Irish Sea until one-fourth of their length disappeared from view under the
                                                                                                                                 : if I
succeeding wave.      am no advocate, therefore, for low bows in heavy seas but the case of
                  I                                                                                            ;

                                                   a                                              very different one. There the waves,

                                 I
                                                                       is
                                                                                               a
the steamer to run between Dover and Calais

even in the worst weather, are comparatively short so short as to present an altogether different

set of conditions. The pitching of well-designed ship, 350 ft. long, could there never be great, and

the problem that Mr. Bessemer and had to solve was, not to reduce extreme pitching motions,

but to make pitching motions, already necessarily small, still smaller. For this purpose

believe the low freeboard will prove advantageous, or, to say the least, innocuous; and

we should be mistaken on this point the low freeboard can easily be got rid of by prolonging

the upper deck and the sides to the extremities an inexpensive addition.                                       aI  do not, however,

believe this addition will prove desirable, and hope will not, because we have gained another
                                                              I

                                                                          is it
very great advantage indeed by adopting the low freeboard at the ends. That advantage                                        this

although the ship 350 ft. long in the water, she only 250 ft. long above the water, where
                  is

                                ;
she exposed to the wind so that not only shall we escape the risk which other long ships will
I is
be exposed to of being blown across the harbour entrance in gale, but we shall positively be
                                                                                                     is a
better off than smaller vessels in this respect, because, while we shall have comparatively small

surface exposed to the wind, we shall have greatly-lengthened surface immersed in the water
                                                              a

to resist the leeway resulting from the wind's action. This                                                great advantage which the
                                                                                                           Ia
Bessemer ship will possess, and which no other competing vessel that know of does possess.

      will not seek to further trespass upon your space by dwelling upon other features of the

Bessemer vessel. For my part, do not put her forward as perfect remedy for sea-sickness in
                  I                                                                               a
                              I
all cases, although think she will be found sufficient remedy in the Straits of Dover. Her
                                                              a

advantages seem to me to be that she will be large enough herself to escape all but very small

movements as regards lifting bodily and pitching. The moderate pitching which she would
otherwise experience will be diminished by the low ends, and what remains of will scarcely
                                                                                                               is
be felt at all in the centre saloon. The rolling of the ship, which
                                                                                                                         it
                                                                                                               the only remaining

movement of importance, will be perfectly neutralised by Mr. Bessemer's hydraulic arrangements
      PLATE XLI

HB
02

ow

 H

H
                       THE BUILDERS OF THE SHIP                                           315

In other respects the ship will be fast, capacious, well furnished, and well ventilated.  I am,

therefore, of opinion that, although she may not fulfil every random prophecy that has been

printed respecting her, she will thoroughly fulfil the object which the travelling public desire

namely, that of enabling us to cross to and from the Continent with health, decency, and

comfort, instead of being subjected, as we now are in bad weather, to conditions which

violate all these, and are in every respect disgraceful to the age we live in.

                       I have the honour to be, Sir,

                       Your obedient Servant,

                                           E. J. KBED.

       The general appearance of the Bessemer saloon steam-ship is clearly

shown in Fig. 86, Plate XLI. Her low freeboard at each end is distinctly

seen, and the position of her boilers and engines fore and aft of the

long saloon, which is to a great extent hidden by a line of deck cabins

extending from one pair of paddle wheels to the other.

Separate tenders for the construction of the ship, and for the engine

and boilers, were issued, and that for the ship by Earle's Shipbuilding

Company, of Hull, was accepted. The contract for the engines and

boilers was given to Messrs. John Penn and Company, of Greenwich.
IKnowing, as
              did, what a light and compact class of engine this
Ifirm turned out,
                   was satisfied that we should be sure of admirable

design and splendid workmanship. Here, unfortunately, began the first
of a series of antagonisms naturally arising from powerful dual interests.
Mr. Reed and Sir Spencer Robinson expressed the opinion that it would

be difficult to tow the saloon ship from Hull to Greenwich to be engined,

but they did not suggest that it would be easy to send Mr. Penn's

engines in parts to Hull, as steam-engines are sent all over the world.

Finally, the tender of Mr. J. Penn was, by his consent, given up, and

the construction of the engines and boilers was handed over to Earle's

Shipbuilding Company.

Unfortunately, financial difficulties and misapprehensions occurred at
Ithis early stage ; some of the latter were so erroneous that
                                                                                          find
Iit impossible to pass over this subject (as should have wished to do)

in silence, but will content myself by simply stating facts which the

Company's books, the list of shares issued, and my vouchers for

payment, render absolutely indisputable. Several months after the
316                       HENRY BESSEMER

formation of the Company, the amount of cash in the bank was getting
Ivery low, and
                subscribed first 3,000, and then 2,000 more in the

purchase of shares, thus bringing up the amount of my ordinary shares

of the Company to 15,000. Very soon after this, and for the same

Ireason, took a further sum of 5,000 in Debenture Bonds, raising my

investment to 20,000.
     IIn the interim,
                       had received from the Company                3,000, being

10 per cent, on the early payments to the shipbuilders (Earle's Ship-

building Company, Hull) ; but for more than a year afterwards, the
Saloon Ship Company, although they found money to pay Earle's, could

Inot do so to fulfil their engagements with me. At last, consented to

take 6,000 more in Debentures, in lieu of the cash then owing to me

on the 10 per cent, account. The Company were still short of funds,

and as none  Iof the large capitalists connected with it would take any
             Debentures,  had again to put my hand into my pocket
more of the  I5,000, for which
for another                     accepted Debentures at par, bringing

up my investment to 31,000. This money was soon absorbed, and

tradesmen who had done work on the ship, or had supplied goods to

the Company, could not be paid, and they were becoming clamorous
Ifor their money.
                   naturally felt much annoyed to find this state of

things going on in a concern with which my name was so intimately

connected, and, in spite of my knowledge of the embarassed state
Iof the Company,
                   offered to lend them 3,000 for a week or ten

days, as money was expected within that time. They accepted my

offer, but handed me a bill at three months' date for the amount ; and
Ihaving waited that time was requested not to present
                                                           it it,   as there

were no funds provided to meet it.  accordingly held                over, but
                          it
firmly determined not to allow my sympathy with the objects of the
                                 I
Company to draw me into further risks.                   it         worse pinch
                                                                    the London,
      But very soon after this prudent resolve there came       ;a
than ever. The boat was lying in the Millwall Docks

Chatham, and Dover Railway Company wanted to run for the holidays      ;

but must be insured before could safely be sent round to Dover.
     it

There was the further difficulty that the debentures could not be legally
issued, for one of the conditions attached to them was that the boat
FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES OF THE BESSEMER SALOON SHIP COMPANY  317

should be insured for 100,000, and the premium on this insurance was

no less than 7,000. There appeared to be no means of raising this sum :

all the shares were fully paid up, debentures could not be issued, for
Ino one could be induced to take them.
                                        knew the Company was deeply

in debt, and wholly without the means of paying, and that, therefore,

they could give me no sound security for my further advances. But,

Ion the other hand, a collapse was imminent, and to prevent this

catastrophe lent the 7,000 to cover the insurance and get the boat

round to Dover, thus bringing up my total investment and advances to

the Company to 41,000. This sum of 7,000 was borrowed from me

under promise of a special resolution of the Board, stating that the

two sums of 3,000 and 7,000 should be repaid as soon as 10,000,

which had been promised to be placed to the credit of the Company

on the security of 20,000 in Debentures, had been received. In due

course this 10,000 was placed to the credit of the Company, and a

cheque was drawn for me not, however, for the 10,000 owing me,
Ibut for 7,000 only.
                       pressed hard for the 3,000 in cash, which by
Ia special resolution of the Board had a right to, and which was in
I Itheir possession ; but failed to get the money, and after a time

Iwas glad to take    3,000 in Debentures, in lieu of the money lent them,
although  knew
                     at the time that these Debentures were of very
questionable value.
                     I, therefore, held in the Company 15,000 in Ordinary

Shares and 19,000 in Debentures.

    I Ihave shown that by Agreement and Deed of License was only

to give my advice and opinion, but being above all things desirous for
Ithe success of the enterprise, took upon myself an immense amount
Iof practical detail.
                       had been some years without doing any actual

work at the drawing-board ; my staff of assistants was scattered, and
I feared to entrust so important a matter as the arrangement of all the
Idetails of the saloon machinery to strangers.
                                                consequently wrent to

the drawing-board myself, working long hours for many weeks together.
At my then time of life, and with the effects of my former efforts still
Ihanging about me, this work proved too much.
                                                suffered constantly

from severe headache and want of sleep, and at last my health broke
Idown so completely that my friends became alarmed, and
                                                         consulted
318                       HENRY BESSEMER

Dr. Jenner, who ordered me at once to leave home and all business matters

for some months, enjoying perfect quiet and repose. I, however, held on,

I Iand got such further professional assistance as was necessary to finish the
work before left London.  also went to the cost of many photographs

and two large coloured drawings of the interior of the saloon, by means

of which the Directors were enabled to see precisely what was intended

to be done. Everyone seemed to pride himself on the beautiful saloon,

and not a word was raised about the expense of it ; each of the contracts

for oak carving, cartoon paintings, and gilt decorations passed the Board

with full approval.

    I may mention that, during my study of the best means of governing
Ithe saloon, proposed to employ a gyroscope, driven at a very high speed

by a steam turbine on the same axis. There was enough doubt about

so novel a contrivance to prevent me from feeling quite justified in

advising the Company to go to the expense of trying it ; and, on the
Iother hand,
              believed it would be a splendid success if it acted at

all in the way proposed, and seeing that the cost of the apparatus would
Inot exceed 500, volunteered to go to this expense, and had a beautiful
Iinstrument made on a large scale ;
                                     also went to the further expense

of taking out patents, at home and abroad, so as to secure its use to the
Bessemer Saloon Ship Company. But when the latter fell into liquidation,

this beautiful instrument, which was chiefly constructed of gun-metal, was
sold as old metal ; only the fly-wheel remained to give an idea of its size.

     The Bessemer Saloon Ship Company were most fortunate in finding in

Mr. Forbes and Capt. Godbold, of the London, Chatham and Dover Railway

Company, gentlemen who not only thoroughly appreciated the advantages

to the Channel service promised by the Saloon Steamboat, but who

also, with enlightened liberality, seldom equalled in a public body, gave
the most valuable help on all occasions : lending the services of their

experienced Commodore, Captain Pittock, and in a dozen other ways

affording the most generous assistance.
       Among other things they organised a trial trip of the Saloon boat,

to take place on the 8th May, 1875, having invited the most influential
officers and others connected with their Company and with the Channel

service. Now, what was the result of this elaborately-organised trial
                        THE COLLISION WITH CALAIS PIER                   319

trip, from which so much had been expected ? On a beautiful calm
day, in broad daylight, at a carefully-chosen time of the tide, and with
all the skill of the best Channel navigator, the ship dashed into the pier

at Calais for the second time out of three attempts to enter the harbour,

doing damage for which the authorities claimed 2,800 (a sum greatly
in excess of the injury done) ; and for this an undertaking had to be

given before the vessel was allowed to depart. On this run, with every

  effort, she did not steam faster than the small boats, although from the

  huge columns of smoke issuing from the funnels it was evident to all on

board that she was consuming coal at a furious rate. The fact that the

  boat did not answer her helm was sworn to by Captain Pittock before

the Consul at Calais.

    That this mishap did in no way arise from any failure of the saloon

itself, or from any inefficiency in the machinery used to controlI       have

the testimony of Mr. E. Reed (the Company's Naval Architect), as wella
                      it
                             it                                    iIt,
  as that of Admiral Sir Spencer Robinson. The facts of the case were
                               J.
given by these gentlemen in the most clear and emphatic terms.
                                           it
    During the week immediately following the catastrophe at Calaisif

II  remained in Paris, and on my return to England had placed before

  me, by the Secretary of the Saloon Ship Company,          letter for my

  approval, which, as endorsed thereon, was intended to be sent to all the

  London daily papers.  The letter was written by no less an authority than
                        had also been approved by Admiral Sir Spencer
  Mr. E. J. Reed, and

  Robinson, who had, at his own discretion, made some additions to the

  latter part of the letter, leaving intact, and without one word of alteration,
  all the part of having reference to the saloon and its machinery, which

    therefore quote as being purely independent evidence, written without

  my knowledge or suggestion, and intended to convey to the world, through

  the medium of the public press, the simple facts of the case. This letter

  was to appear in the papers as                 written by the Secretary under the

  authority of the Board, and to be signed by him but as Captain Davis
                                                 ;
(one of the Directors) did not agree with some of the statements made
in the latter part of the letter in reference to the steering powers ofit

  the boat, the publication of    was postponed, and        was never sent

  to the press.
320  HENRY BESSEMER

       Here follows a correct copy of so much of the letter in question
as refers to the Saloon and its machinery :

                                                                 THE BESSEMER.

    I am instructed by the Board of this Company to request your kind insertion of the

following remarks upon a subject which appears to be of sufficient public interest to justify
this request.

       The facts that the Bessemer is not yet running between England and France, and that
on two occasions the pier of Calais has been injured by her in entering, have led some persons
to state that the vessel has failed, and that the object which the Company had in view
cannot be accomplished. That this is a hastily-drawn inference will appear from the following.

       The Bessemer was built primarily for the purpose of showing that the rolling motion
of a passenger steamer might be neutralised in a saloon supported upon axles and controlled

by hydraulic power. It is well understood that this was a great experiment, and all reasonable

persons expected that the totally novel machinery required for keeping the saloon at comparative
rest, however successful in principle, would require some experience, and probably some
minor modifications, in order to put it successfully to work.

      Now up to this present moment Mr. Bessemer and his representatives have been able
to make but extremely few trials, and there does not appear to be the slightest ground for
alleging that he will fail in his object. He has amply proved the sufficiency of his machinery
for applying to the Saloon all the power that is requisite for the purpose. The only changes
which he has yet found desirable have been of a minor kind, and connected only with the
valves and levers. These improvements have not yet been properly tried, for it is not an
easy thing, particularly at this season of the year, to find suitable opportunities for working
the cabin at sea, and for making such adjustments as experiment only can indicate. Any
supposition of failure, therefore, with regard to Mr. Bessemer's plans, is altogether premature
and without proper foundation.

      After this second collision with the Calais pier, nothing was done
to test the powers of the hydraulic machinery ; not a single thing was

done or alteration made, not even a screw was undone or touched, so
that the saloon and its hydraulic governing machinery still remains an

untried mechanical problem. And it is important that it should be
understood how it happened that the machinery connected with the saloon

was prevented from being completed by a similar accident, or collision,
with the Calais pier about three weeks prior to the fatal smashing of
the pier on the public trial on May 8th, 1875. The simple facts are

these :

       Immediately after this public trial-trip had been decided upon, the
Saloon Ship Company thought it prudent to have a rehearsal, and it was
THE FIRST TRIP OF THE BESSEMER SALOON STEAMSHIP  321

arranged that Captain Pittock, the able Commander of the Chatham
and Dover steamboats, should run the boat into Calais harbour at mid-day,
and return at once to Dover. Matters being thus arranged, Captain
Pittock started from Dover for this private trial-trip about the middle
of April; and, notwithstanding his long experience in daily navigating
the Channel for twenty years, in daylight and in darkness, in calm and
in storm, yet on a bright Spring morning, with a gentle breeze, he
failed to steer safely into Calais Harbour, which he knew so well, and
where at all states of the tide, and in all weathers, he had steered his

Channel ships thousands of times without a mishap of any kind. On
this rehearsal trial he was unable to keep the Bessemer ship off the
pier, which she crashed into, not with her bows but with her paddle-
wheels, doing much damage to the pier, but still more damage to one
paddle-wheel and adjacent parts of the ship. He was, however, able to
back out of the harbour that he had partially entered, and by the aid
of the other pair of paddle-wheels to crawl back again into Dover
Harbour, thus deranging the whole programme, and altering all that
had been decided to be done during the three weeks pending the great

demonstration advertised to be made on the 8th May, and which could

not be put off.
       The saloon machinery was nearly completed, but the whole of its

working parts had never once been put together, and the trial referred
to in the letter written by Mr. Reed had reference only to the testing
of joints and connections, steam pumps, etc. ; no trial whatever up
to the present hour has ever been made with the complete apparatus,
which, in fact, was never finished. The interval of about three weeks

between the middle of April and May 8th would have enabled me to
complete my work, and also to get a first rehearsal of the saloon with
its machinery absolutely finished, prior to the public use of it on the
8th May, had it not been for the smashing of the paddle-wheel. But

the first thing to be done after the accident was to render the ship
itself capable of performing the advertised voyage, and with this object
every available man was put on the repairs of the disabled paddle-wheel,
and the other parts of the vessel injured in its collision with the pier.

       There was scarce time, by working night and day, to get the ship

                                                                                                                                        TT
322                            HENRY BESSEMER

again in good order for the 8th of May. It was impossible that time could

be allowed me to have a trial-trip and a proper rehearsal of the Saloon

Imachinery, and did not feel justified in subjecting our visitors to the

first trial of so novel an invention, with a steersman absolutely without
             ISeeing this was to be the case, employed the few hands
practice.

that could be spared in riveting some plates and stays to the underside
of the saloon, and securing their opposite ends to the main ribs and

bottom of the ship, thus making the saloon, for the time being, a part

and parcel of the ship itself, like any other fixed cabin, and quite safe

for persons to go into  it,

                             ;

                               ; it,

                                                                                   ;

                                                  I

                                                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                                                              ;
                        or crowd upon its upper open deck, as they

did on the journey to Calais.

     Thus, owing to the want of control of the rudder, this first smash

of the Calais pier destroyed the only opportunity  ever had of trying

the action of the saloon with all its mechanical arrangements complete.
With the rigidly-fixed saloon the invited company started for Calais

everyone was charmed with the proportions being so unlike the cabin

of Channel boat. It formed a room 70 ft. long by 30 ft. wide, with
Ia
a ceiling 20 ft. from the floor its beautiful morocco-covered seats its

fine carved-oak divisions and spiral columns its gilt, moulded panels,
with hand-painted cartoons its groined ceiling, tastefully decorated, gave
an idea of luxury to the future Channel passage which all seemed to

appreciate.

          have given an illustration of the interior of the saloon (see Fig. 87,

Plate XLII.) in section, taken from large water-colour painting, closely
                                  a

                                                         ;

                                                           it

                                                                                         a
following all the details of the structure but     requires                                 very

fertile imagination, when looking at this small black-and-white illustration,
to fill in the exquisite oak carving and arabesques in its numerous panels,

its bold cartoon filling each space between the spiral oak columns, with

the beautiful colouring intermixed, with just enough gilding to convert
the decorations into one harmonious whole, pleasing to the eye but

not distracting to the senses a room which did infinite credit to its
                               :

able and truly artistic decorators, Messrs. B. Simpson and Son. Everyone

on board on that fatal 8th of May roamed over the various small cabins

connected with the saloon, and ascended to the upper deck. They all

had gone over the ship, and commented, according to their different tastes
PLATE XLII

                        o
                           3<j

                              02

                      M

                  I-

                              oo
THE LAST TRIP OF THE BESSEMER SALOON STEAMSHIP  323

and ideas, on the many novelties in this new structure ; and in the interim

we had arrived very slowly, it must be admitted at the entrance of

Calais Harbour. I, knowing what had occurred on a previous occasion,

held my breath while the veteran Captain Pittock gave his orders to
the man at the helm. But the ship did not obey him, and crash she

went along the pier side, knocking down the huge timbers like so many

ninepins !

    I knew what it all meant to me. That five minutes had made me

a poorer man by 34,000 ; it had deprived me of one of the greatest
triumphs of a long professional life, and had wrought the loss of the

dearly-cherished hope that buoyed me up and helped to carry me through
Imy personal labours.
                       had fondly hoped to remove for ever from

thousands yet unborn the bitter pangs of the Channel passage, and thus
by intercourse, and a greater appreciation of each other, to strengthen

the bonds of mutual respect and esteem between two great nations, while

it still left us the silver streak for our political protection. All this

had gone for ever.

     It will be readily understood that this second catastrophe at Calais

finally determined the fate of the Bessemer Saloon Steamboat Company,

which had thus become hopelessly discredited ; its financial position was

equally bad, and there only remained the formal act of winding up the

ICompany, from which withdrew myself, much disappointed.

       Had this unfortunate ship been able to steam rapidly and steer
safely, all might still have been saved, for Captain Godbold, the Foreign

Traffic Manager of the London, Chatham, and Dover Railway Company,
distinctly stated to me that had the Bessemer been capable of steering

safely into Calais Harbour at the promised speed, his Company would

have run her regularly on this station, even if her saloon had always

been kept locked fast to the boat, on terms that would have yielded

a handsome profit to the Saloon Company, and thus have afforded ample

opportunities between her trips across the Channel for practising and

perfecting the controlling apparatus, and training two or three men to

this new occupation.

    I Ihave already explained the conditions under which granted a

monopoly of a portion of rny patent rights to the Saloon Company, and
324                        HENRY BESSEMER

Ifor which was to receive 10 per cent, on the cost of the ships built by

them. Now, if there is any force in a sealed contract, deliberately entered
Iinto by men of business,
                           had a clear right, both moral and legal, to
Ithe advantages secured by that contract.
                                             state this distinctly, so

that there may be no mistake, and that no one shall be able to say

that my determination never to apply to my own private use one shilling

Iof the money so obtained from the Saloon Company, was because had

any doubts of my moral and legal rights thereto. It was purely because
I would not put into my own pocket one shilling earned by my invention,

while there were tradesmen and manufacturers who had done work and

supplied material to the Saloon Company, but who remained unpaid their

just debts.
     IAs before stated,
                           had received    3000 in cash, and had been

Iobliged to take 6000 in debentures in lieu of that amount in cash.

These was fortunate to sell for 3000, making my gross receipts from
             I6000.
the Company              held only three-fourths of the saloon patents,
Iand therefore handed over 1500 to my friends who held the

remainder, thus reducing the amount personally received by me to

4500.

  I then requested my solicitor to write to each of the creditors of

the Bessemer Saloon Steamboat Company, fixing a day, viz., Wednesday,

June 23rd, 1875 when, on applying at the offices of Messrs. Watkin,

Baker, Bayllis, and Baker, of 11, Sackville Street, their accounts would

be paid in full. It appeared that there were twenty-one creditors,

Iwhose united claims on the Company amounted to the sum of
3328 18s. 9d., which was duly paid to them.  am, at the time of

writing, still in possession of all the receipts given by these creditors.

       The payment of these twenty-one accounts left me with a balance

Iof 1172 out of the monies had received from the Saloon Company,
Iand which sum had proposed to hand over to some public charity,

but one of the unfortunate shareholders suggested that " Charity begins

Iat home," and therefore handed over this balance to the liquidators.

All these details would for ever have been buried in oblivion but for
Ithe fact that had, through no fault of my own, been identified with the
Iaffairs of this bankrupt company ; and
                                           consequently feel bound to
   THE END OP THE BESSEMER SALOON STEAMSHIP COMPANY             325

Ivindicate my character, and to show that had, time after time, helped

with a liberal hand to extricate the Company from its financial diffi-
I Iculties by taking further shares.
                                 desire also to show that had not

benefited by my connection with the Company to the extent of a single

shilling, either for my arduous personal services or for the sale of a

portion of my patent rights to them. And, further, that the collapse

of the Company was not caused by any failure of my invention, which
Iremains to this hour an untried mechanical problem, in which
                                                                have

still the most perfect confidence. Indeed, nothing has happened to

Ilessen or destroy the confidence with which had followed it up from

its first inception to the time of the Calais smash ; and, even when all

Iseemed lost, could not resist one more attempt to save the Company

and the unfortunate shareholders. We were not bound to that particular

ship, and if an opportunity could only be obtained to show that

the Saloon when finished would do what was expected of
                                                    ?

                                                       I, it,
                                                           if

                                                                                    ?

                                                                 I
                                                        all might

yet be well. But who was to lead this forlorn hope      anyone.

But how dare       run such  ;a  ship on my own responsibility
            aI
was not mad enough for this but the ship was worth so little that
                         a
the liquidators might be induced to risk taking her to sea, after the

completion of the Saloon machinery had been effected, and was willing
                                                    I

to risk yet another 1000 to get this done and the device properly

tried at sea. For this purpose proposed to place the sum of 1000I

in the London Joint Stock Bank in the names of Mr. J. O. Chadwick,

one of the liquidators, and Captain Henry Davis,    a   director of

the Saloon Company. In order that the fund thus provided should

be applied in manner that would be satisfactory to the liquidators,

I  proposed to form         committee of three competent engineers viz.,

Mr. John Beckwith, manager of Messrs. Galloway and Sons, who made

all the hydraulic apparatus for the saloon Mr. Robert Charles May,
                                 ;

                                                a
of Great George Street, Westminster, an eminent civil engineer, and

myself. These three persons were to decide by      majority on all the

steps to be taken, and to draw cheques on this 1000 for the payment

of fitting up, completing, and working experimentally the hydraulic

apparatus at sea.  I  insisted, however, that  I,  personally, should not

be held responsible for any damage the Saloon ship might do to
326             HENRY BESSEMER

herself, or to other vessels she might collide with or run into, etc.

This offer, if accepted, would in all human probability have saved the

whole property of the Company from wreck by proving the success of
the saloon machinery, but it was refused by the liquidators, who thus

gave the final coup to this most unfortunate undertaking.

      In writing an account of the more salient incidents of my professional

career, it was impossible for me to omit the story of the Saloon

Steam-ship, about which the general public very naturally came to the
conclusion that my system of controlling the motion of the saloon by

hydraulic power had proved an entire failure, and that the collapse of

the Saloon Steam-boat Company had consequently ensued. Nothing

could be more absolutely untrue, but a simple denial of that fact on

my part would have had no weight against the fact that the Company
                I was, therefore, obliged to choose between two alter-
had collapsed.
Inatives ;
                must either for ever remain under the stigma of this
Isupposed failure, or must combat that erroneous impression by placing

unreservedly the leading facts of the case before the public, and thus

bring home, even to the untechnical reader, evidence that no fair-minded
                                IIt must be borne in mind that had
person can hesitate to accept.

personally expended over model ships, patents, and experiments, some
  5000 prior to the formation of the Saloon Company. Now this

Company ought certainly to have been a source of gain or profit to

me, or, at any rate, have recouped my initial outlay ; but, on the
Icontrary,
               had to prop it up, taking an undue amount in shares, and

ultimately losing 34,000 on them. This may be said only to show

great confidence in the invention on my part, but when all was
over, and the Company was in liquidation, while still smarting under
my pecuniary losses, and still more so over my loss of professional
reputation, by the supposed failure of the untried Saloon, what could

have induced me to place 1000 in the bank to give my invention a

trial, if it had already proved a failure ? This
     a
                                                                                       is,
                                                                                                           a
                                                  at least, point upon

which the common-sense of unscientific people will enable everyone to

form sound opinion, and accept the fact that my hydraulic controlling

apparatus was never completed, was never tested at sea, and consequently

never failed.
                           CHAPTER XXI

    [The Bessemer Autobiography terminates with the preceding page. The obvious intention

             practically to completion, was never carried out; for although to within
to continue  it,
                                                                                                                 it

                                                                                                                                                                                           a
few months of his death Sir Henry was busily occupied in collecting notes of an active

though retired period, the narrative to be evolved from these notes was not commenced.

The alternative was, therefore, to present an unfinished story, or to complete  with the

assistance of his eldest son, Mr. Henry Bessemer. The latter alternative being considered

the more desirable, and Mr. Bessemer having kindly offered his collaboration, the following

Chapter has been added to this book. ED.]

ri^HE unfortunate destruction of my father's copious notes relating

      to those years of his life after he had retired from active business,

but not from usefulness, has made my task a difficult one, because
             I

                          a

                                                                                                                                             ;

                                                             I
have to rely on memory, aided by some memoranda and letters and

because was not at that time in constant touch with my father, as he
    I
resided in London and in rather distant part of the country.aI

with      have read the pages of this Autobiography with much care, and
           critical desire that no paragraph shall go forth to the world

that can in any way reflect on my father's memory or do an injustice

to those who were apparently hostile to him, and find no statement
                           is
                              a

                                         it

                                                    is,

                                                      it

                                                   II

                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                  a
which goes beyond the limit of accuracy. To be sure, all the matters

referred to are ancient history. Most of the actors, too, in what was
vivid drama, are dead and, perhaps, forgotten, but they were very

real to my father when he wrote his story nearly as real as when he

was the chief actor thirty years before. Perhaps  may be prejudiced,

but seems to me that, old as               my father's story must always
      it

remain full of interest, not only because  records in detail the early

history of the greatest invention of modern times, but also because on

almost every page there    lesson to the young inventor                         revelation
of the secret of success.
                           From the commencement to the end of his
328             HENRY BESSEMER

long and most honourable career, my father never failed to put in practice
his motto, " Onward Ever ! "

    I I Ifind a few matters on which should like to touch before turn
Ito the more difficult task have undertaken a sketch of my father's

Lt,er years of leisure and retirement. Some of these matters are of small
importance, but they possess an interest from the fact that several of

his casual inventions, dating many years back, have in more recent times

been re-invented, and taken their place among the everyday necessities
Iof our lives.
                am not claiming for my father any special merit in this :

almost every true inventor anticipates the wants of the public (or some
of them) before that public even knows of the requirement, and solves
the problem years before the need for it is realised. To give two or

three illustrations.

     In 1846 he obtained a patent in which, among other matters, was

described a method for making an elastic communication between the

ends of railway carriages, so that the whole train could be continuous

from end to end. The device consisted in stretching leather or other

material over collapsing frames, after the fashion of the hood of a

landau ; the ends of all the carriages being fitted with such hoods, they

could be brought together and secured so as to make a covered connection

between the vehicles. This was certainly an anticipation of the vestibule

train.

     That my father was a prolific inventor is evident from his Auto-

biography, and in' one place he makes special reference to the large
Inumber of patents for inventions which he secured.
                                                     have been at

some pains to make as complete a list as possible of these patents and

Iapplications for patents, and this list subjoin, arranged chronologically.

It will be noticed that the patents chiefly refer to four main subjects :

The manufacture of glass, the manufacture of iron and steel, improve-
ments in ordnance, and the manufacture of sugar. Of these, only the

patents relating to the manufacture of iron and steel bore a plentiful
harvest. As already explained, no patents of importance were obtained

by my father for the manufacture of bronze powder.
                   BESSEMER AS AN INVENTOR                                            329

LIST OF PATENTS GRANTED TO HENRY BESSEMER, 1838-1883.

1838   March 8.    No. 7,585.   Casting, breaking off, and counting printing types.
1841   Jan. 6.     No. 8,777.
1841               No. 9,100.   Checking or stopping railroad carriages.
1843   Sept. 23.   No. 9,775.
1844               No. 10,011.  Manufacture of glass.
       June 15.
       Jan. 13.                 Manufacture of bronze and other metallic powders.     <f

                                Preparing paint and varnishes for fixing metallic powders

                                or leaf.

1845 Dec.     5. No. 10,981.    Atmospheric propulsion, and exhausting air and other

                                fluids.

 1846  July 30.    No. 11,317.  Manufacture, silvering, and coating of glass.
 1846              No. 11,352.
 1847  Aug. 26.    No. 11,794.  Railway engines and carriages.
1848               No. 12,101.
1849   July 17.    No. 12,450.  Manufacture of glass.
1849               No. 12,578.
1849   March 22.   No. 12,611.  Manufacture of glass.      .
1849   Jan. 31.    No. 12,669.  Manufacture of glass.
1849               No. 12,780.
1850   April 17.   No. 13,183.  Manufacture of cane sugar.
1850               No. 13,202.
1851   May 15.     No. 13,560.  Manufacture of oils, varnishes, pigments and paints.
1851   June 23.    No. 13,819.
1852               No. 13,988.  Raising and forcing water.
1852               No. 14;239.
1852   Sept.  20.  No. 795.     Preparation of fuel and stoking machinery.
1852          22.  No. 796.
1852   July   31.  No. 797.     Figuring and ornamenting surfaces.
1852   July        No. 799.
1853               No. 1,483.   Manufacture and treatment of sugar.
1853               No. 1,687.
1853   March 20.   No. 1,689.   Manufacture and refining of sugar.
1853               No. 1,691.
1853-  Nov. 19.    No. 2,811.   Ornamenting woven fabrics and leather.
185g               No. 2,875.
185    Feb. 24.    No. 1,835.   Manufacture of sugar.
1854-              No. 1,868.
1854*  July 24.    No. 2,489.   Manufacture of sugar.
1855               No. 66.
1855*  Nov. 19.    No. 67.      Treatment of cane juices.
1855               No. 1,382.
1855   Nov. 19.    No. 1,384.   Manufacture of sugar.

       Nov. 19.                 Treatment of washed sugar.

       Nov.   19.               Concentrating saccharine fluids.
              18.
       June   14.               Manufacture of waterproof fabrics.
       July   15.
       July   15.               Refining and manufacturing sugar.
       July
                                Manufacture of bastard sugar from molasses and scums.

                                Manufacture and refining of sugar.

       Dec.   2.                Manufacture and refining of sugar.

       Dec.   9.                Railway axles and brakes.

       Aug. 21.                 Treatment of slag.

       Aug.   25.               Naval and military guns.
       Nov.   24.
       Jan.   10.               Projectiles and guns.
       Jan.   10.
       June   18.               Manufacture of iron and steel.
       June   18.
                                Manufacture of ordnance.

                                Screw propellers, cranks and propeller shafts.

                                Manufacture of cast steel and mixtures of steel and

                                cast iron.

1855 June 18. No. 1,386.        Manufacture of ordnance.

                                                                               UD
330                                    HENRY BESSEMER

     1855  June 18.     No. 1,388.     Manufacture of rolls or cylinders for shaping metals,
                                               crushing ores, etc. ; and calendering, glazing, em-
     1855  June   18.   No. 1,390.             bossing, printing, and pressing.
     1855         17.   No. 2,317.
     1855  Oct.   17.   No. 2,319.     Manufacture of railway wheels.
     1855  Oct.   17.   No. 2,321.     Manufacture of anchors.
     1855  Oct.   17.   No. 2,323.     Manufacture of railway bars.
           Oct.                        Manufacture of cast steel.
     1855                              Metal beams, girders, and tension bars used in con-
     1855  Oct. 17.     No.  2,325.
     1855               No.  2,327.            structing buildings, viaducts, and bridges.
     1856  Oct. 17.     No.  2,768.    Ordnance and projectiles.
     1856               No.            Railway wheels.
     1856  Dec.   7.    No.       44.  Manufacture of iron.
     1856         4.    No.     356.   Manufacture of iron and steel.
           Jan.         No.     630.   Manufacture of malleable iron and steel.
     1856                    1,290.    Manufacture of iron and steel.
     1856  Feb. 12.                    Shaping, pressing, and rolling malleable iron and
     1856
     1856  March 15.
     1856
     1856  May 31.
     1857
     1857                              steel.
     1857
     1857  May    31.   No.  1,292.    Manufacture of iron and steel.
           Aug.   19.   No.  1,938.
     1857  Aug.   25.   No.  1,981.    Manufacture of iron and steel.
     1857  Nov.         No.  2,585.    Manufacture of iron and steel.
     1858  Nov.     4.  No.  2,639.    Manufacture of railway rails and axles.
     1858  Nov.   10.   No.  2,726.    Manufacture of iron and steel.
     1859  Jan.   18.   No.            Manufacture of iron.
     1860         24.   No.     221.   Manufacture of iron and steel.
           Sept.  18.   No.  2,432.    Manufacture of cast steel.
     1861  Nov.         No.  2,808.
     1861  Nov.     5.       2,819.    Treating iron ores.
                    6.                 Manufacture of malleable iron and steel, and of railway
     1861
     1862                                       and other bars, plates, and  rods.
                                       Treating and smelting iron ores.
     1863  Nov. 13.     No. 2,862.     Manufacture of iron and steel.
                        No. 2,921.
           Nov. 20.     No. 1,724.     Cleaning pit coal.
                        No. 2,747.     Wheels and tyres.
           July 30.     No. 670.       Manufacture of crank axles.
                        No. 578.       Apparatus for the manufacture
           Dec.   1.

           March 16.

           March 1.                                                          of malleable iron and

                                       steel.

           Jan.   26.   No. 216.       Ordnance and projectiles.
           Feb.     1.  No. 275.       Manufacture of malleable iron and steel, and apparatus

                                       therefor.

           April 27,    No. 1,069.     Projectiles and ordnance.
           Jan. 8.      No. 56.
                                       Apparatus for the manufacture of malleable iron and

                                       steel.

           Jan. 5.      No. 37.        Apparatus for pressing, moulding, shaping, embossing,
                                              crushing, shearing, and cutting metallic and other

                                       substances.
                     LIST OF BESSEMER S PATENTS                               331

1863  Jan. 13. No.   114.   Manufacture of malleable iron and steel, and furnaces

1863  June 9. No. 1,439.             and apparatus therefor.
1863                        Construction of hydraulic presses and machinery.
1863  Nov. 5. No. 2,744.    Manufacture of railway bars.
1864                        Manufacture of malleable iron and steel.
1864  Nov. 5. No. 2,746.    Manufacture of projectiles.
1865                        Manufacture of armour plate.
      Jan. 25. No.   217.   Manufacture of pig-iron or foundry metal, and of castings
1865
1867  Jan. 30. No. 265.
1867
1867  May   1. No. 1,208.
1867
                            thereof.
1868
1868  Nov. 3. No. 2,835.    Manufacture of iron and steel, and apparatus therefor.
1868                        Ordnance.
      Aug. 14. No. 2,343.
1868
1869  Nov. 11. No. 3,193.   Grindstones and artificial stones.
                            Manufacture of firebricks, retorts, and crucibles.
1869  Dec.  9. No. 3,501.   Treatment of cast iron and manufacture of malleable

1869  Dec. 31. No. 3,714.           iron and steel.

1869  March 21. No. 965.    Manufacture       of iron and steel.
                            Manufacture       of iron and steel.
1869  March 21. No.  967.   Manufacture       of iron and steel,
1869
      March 31. No. 1,095.           metals.                      heating  and melting of
1869
1869  Nov. 10. No. 3,419.   Manufacture of cast steel and homogenous malleable iron.
1870                        Apparatus and buildings for manufacture of cast steel
1870  Feb. 23. No.   566.
1870                                and malleable iron from pig iron.
1870  May 10. No. 1,431.    Manufacture of malleable iron and steel, and furnaces
1870
1871                        therefor.
1871
1871  May 10. No. 1,432.    Furnaces for obtaining cast steel or homogeneous  malleable
1871                                iron from wrought iron or pig.            malleable
1872  May 10. No. 1433.
                            Conversion of molten pig iron into homogeneous
                                    iron or steel.

      May   10. No, 1,434.  Treatment of pig iron and apparatus therefor.
      May   10. No. 1,435.
                            Blast furnaces, their gaseous products,        and the con-
                                   struction of blowing engines.

      Aug. 10. No. 2,397.   Melting and casting metals.

      Dec. 22. No. 3,707.   Vessels for prevention of sea-sickness.

      Feb. 24. No.   553.   Vessels for prevention of sea-sickness.

      May 27. No. 1,559.    Vessels for prevention of sea-sickness.

      May 30. No. 1,580.    Steamships for prevention of sea-sickness.
      June 17. No. 1,742.
                            Vessels for prevention of sea-sickness.

      Nov. 29. No. 3,130.   Ordnance and ammunition.

      Jan. 27. No.   223.   Marine artillery.

      Feb. 15. No.   386.   Repairing and converting vessels.                      OF THF
                            Ordnance and projectiles.
      June  1. No. 1,466.   Asphalte pavement.                             UNIVERSITY
      July  4. No. 1,737.                                                               OF

      Oct.  1. No. 2,897.   Passenger vessels.
332                              HENRY BESSEMER

     1873  March 22. No. 1,076.  Controlling, etc., suspended saloons; discharging marine

     1874                        artillery.
     1874
     1874  Sept 24. No. 3,274.   Ships' saloons, cabins, etc.
     1875  Sept 28. No. 3,319.
     1879  Dec. 10, No. 4,258.   Supplying water.
           Dec. 31. No. 4,552.
     1879  April 5. No. 1,368.   Ships' saloons, cabins, etc.
     1880
                                 Reflectors, lenses, etc.                 Making tinplate
     1882
     1883                        II(A. G. Bessemer and Sir . Bessemer.)

                                         and blackplate.

           Oct. 10. No. 4,110.   Tinplate bars or slabs.

           March 6. No.   987.   (A. G. Bessemer and Sir H. Bessemer.)    Making malleable
                                        iron; making castings or ingots.

           Oct.  30. No. 5,171.  Loading, etc., merchandise ; rolling stock of railways.
           Jan.
                 18. No.  305.   Loading, etc., merchandise; rolling stock of railways.

      In the earlier pages of the narrative, my father relates the story

of a visit he paid to the works of some friends of his, Messrs. Hayward
and Co., manufacturers of paints and varnishes, in London. He tells

how he was struck with the time-honoured, wasteful, and imperfect

process of making drying oils in an iron pot over an open fire : a crude

method, always attended with uncertainty, danger, and not infrequently

with a complete loss of the whole charge. We are told how he recom-

mended a new, simple, and certain plan to replace the old primitive and

dangerous method a plan that had occurred to him as he walked through

the works, and which he embodied in a sketch. The idea was put into

practice by his friends, to their lasting profit, as they for years kept

it a secret in the colour trade. The new plan (not described in the
Autobiography) was this : instead of a small charge of two or three gallons

being heated over an open fire, some fifty or sixty gallons were run into a

tank, in the bottom of which was a pipe terminating in a large rose-

head. Connected with this pipe .was a coil that could be heated to

any desired temperature, and air could be forced through this coil,

escaping from the rose-head into the oil.          The exact degree of heat

required could be thus maintained, and the process completed with

certainty and safety, without waste, and, above all, without any dis-
coloration of the oil. This may seem but a small matter as, indeed, it

was so far as my father was concerned, for the incident passed from

his mind until he was reminded of it later. But it proved a fortune

to the firm, and to-day exactly the same method, carried to a further
BESSBMER'S SKILL AS A DRAUGHTSMAN                                    333

degree of oxidation, is the foundation of the vast linoleum industries

throughout the world.

    I do not find that my father refers (except now and then quite

indirectly) to his skill as a draughtsman and designer ; yet he possessed

both these qualities to a remarkable degree. No doubt they were
inherited, with other mechanical gifts, from his father, who, as we have
seen, occupied a prominent position in the Paris Mint at an early age,

and possessed a rare combination of mechanical and artistic skill. My

father speaks of a knack he possessed, as a boy, of modelling in clay,

which he put to use at a very early age ; later, when the family had

removed to London, the production of dies for embossing cardboard

and metal, and especially the ornamental designs that characterised

them, depended wholly on himself, and would not have been possible

without natural gifts carefully cultivated. Perhaps even more interesting

was his skill in the application of art to mechanical purposes, as

III.)evidenced by the engraving of his new stamp dies (see Fig. 5, Plate   ;

by his designs and preparation of the deep-cut cylinders for making

figured Utrecht velvet (Fig. 15, Plate VII.), and a number of other

applications of art to mechanics that are only briefly referred to, or

even not mentioned, in the course of his Autobiography.              were

      In another direction his skill and assiduity as a draughtsman  that

remarkable. He made, with his own hand, all the drawings

accompanied his patent specifications, at least for a great number of

years ; and, near the close of his business career, we find that he himself

prepared nearly all the drawings for the Bessemer Saloon.

      In lighter vein, his designs for alterations and additions to his own

Iresidences, and those of his children, were quite remarkable. This is

a matter to which shall have occasion to again refer, later on.
       The story of his great invention, the " Bessemer Process," is told

in the Autobiography at much length and with characteristic vigour;

but in this story my father has omitted a few noteworthy details which

should not be lost. It is interesting that, in the month of June,

1859, Bessemer tool steel was first quoted in the printed price lists of the

trade. The Mining Journal of June 4th, 1859, gives the necessary
Itevidence on this point.
                           says :
334        HENRY BESSEMER

      In this day's Journal we quote, for the first time, amongst the metallic manufactures

of this country, the steel produced by the process patented by Mr. Bessemer, and we are
informed that the new material can be supplied in almost any quantities. The usual price
of engineers' tool steel is from 2 15s. to 3 5s. per cwt., while Mr. Bessemer offers an
article, which prominent judges pronounce equal to the best, at 2 4s., his other kinds of
steel being proportionately lower. As to the quality of the article, there can be little
doubt, since the tests to which it has been submitted at Woolwich gave much satisfaction to
the officials; and, we understand, a contract for a considerable period has been concluded
with Mr. Bessemer. "With a steel of equal quality a little more than two-thirds the usual price,
it would appear almost impossible for success to be wanting to the seller, while the pecuniary
advantage to the consumer will be at once verified ; so that it is needless to commend Bessemer's
steel to the consideration of our readers.

      Sir Henry speaks of the early struggles and ultimate success of the
Sheffield works ; how great that success was may be gathered from

the following passage, given in almost similar words on page 177.

     ISome idea may be formed of its importance as a manufacture when  state the simple

fact that on the expiration of the fourteen years' term of partnership of our Sheffield firm,

the works, which had been greatly increased from time to time, entirely out of revenue,

were sold by private contract for exactly twenty-four times the amount of the whole sub-

scribed capital of the firm, notwithstanding that we had divided in profits during the partner-

ship a sum equal to fifty-seven times the capital; so that, by the mere commercial working

of the process, apart from the patents, each of the partners retired, after fourteen years, from

the Sheffield works with eighty-one times the amount of his subscribed capital, or an average

of nearly cent per cent, every two months.

       But, during the early days (from 1858 to 1861), the success was
problematical and the anxiety very great. The subjoined statement

shows the financial results obtained at the Sheffield works during the

first ten years of its existence.

     Year                                                              s. d.
     1858
     1859  ... ... ... ...                        Loss  729 12 2
     1860
     1861                                                                                             1,093 6 2
     1862  ... ... ... ... Profit 923 2 1
     1863
     1864  ... ... ... ...                              1,475 10       2
     1865                                               3,685 18       4
     1866
     1867  ... ... ... ...                              10,968 6 3

                                                        11,827         4

                                         ... ...         3,949 5 11
           ... ... ... ...                              18,076 18 4

                                                        28,622 1 8
                                         THE FIRST STEEL RAIL                     335

      My father omits any reference to the first steel rails put into

actual service ; and, curiously enough, he does not mention the historic
occasion when he persuaded Mr. Ramsbottom, then the chief mechanical
engineer of the London and North Western Railway, to make a trial.

He has, however, described this interview in a letter :

       Perhaps there was no better practical engineer in Great Britain than Mr. John Ramsbottom,

Iof the London and North- Western Railway ; and when proposed steel rails to him, Mr.

Ramsbottom, looking at me with astonishment, and almost with anger, said : " Mr. Bessemer,
do you wish to see me tried for manslaughter ? " That observation was the natural result of

the then state of knowledge as to what could be done with steel. At that time steel was

made almost exclusively for cutting purposes, and it was highly carbonized, and certainly

too hard for rails. After seeing my samples, however, Mr Ramsbottom, whose mind was

Ithoroughly open to conviction, said : " Well, let me have 10 tons of this material that may
..."torture it to my heart's content.
                                              A steel rail was rolled by Mr. Ramsbottom from a

portion of the 10 tons mentioned, and it had been twisted cold by clamping one end in the

reversing brasses of a rolling mill, and putting the other end in connection with the shaft
Idriven by the engine, till it was twisted into two pieces.
                                                               carefully measured that sample,
Iand found that in a part measuring 6 ft. along the centre of the web, each of the flanges

measured 8 ft. 1 in. This twisted rail was a good example of what mild steel was in those

days. To show that such material, which twisted so well cold, would endure in the hot

test, a 4-in. square bar was twisted hot. It was twisted till it came in two in the centre.
f JThe angles were thus made to form a sort of screw with threads
                                                               in. to in. apart.

       The first steel rail was laid down between two adjacent iron rails,
at the Camden Goods Station of the London and North- Western
Railway, on May 9th, 1862, and as the first of so many millions of

tons, its history should not be forgotten. It is summarised in Engineering,

of January 5th, 1866, as follows :

The Bessemer rails, judging from the experience of the London and North- Western

Railway Company, are cheaper than iron rails at 50, or more, per ton.  There is the

remarkable rail under the Chalk Farm bridge of the North- Western line, which, but a

few weeks ago, when we saw  is             was wearing out the seventeenth or eighteenth face of
                                 it,
wrought-iron rails adjoining          it,and which were subjected to exactly the same conditions of

traffic. This comparison      an extraordinary one.  A  steel rail, rolled at Crewe, from an

ingot cast at the Sheffield Steel Works of Messrs. Henry Bessemer and Company, was

selected at random, and laid down between contiguous iron rails, at the Camden Goods

Station, May 9th, 1862. In 1864,           a  gentleman about to proceed to Belgium upon business

connected with steel rails, asked and received permission from the London and North- Western

directors to copy the records of this and the contiguous rails, as filed in their office. The

steel rail, when examined in September, 1864, had never been turned, top for bottom, and
336                                HENRY BESSEMER

showed "but little signs of wear." Eight thousand goods trucks pass over this line in twenty-

four hours, and it is estimated that nearly 10,000,000 tracks, or more than 20,000,000

                                                                     a

                                                                                                 it,
wheels, have passed over this rail from the first. The next iron rail, contiguous to                                                                          was

laid down, quite new, on the same date, May 9th, 1862.  It was found necessary to turn

it  in the following July; and on September 9th of the same year, second iron rail had

to be laid down in the place of the first. This required to be turned on November 6th, and

on January 6th, 1863, third iron rail had to be put down. This was turned on March 1st,aaa
                                a
and fourth new rail put down on April 29th. This was turned top for bottom, July 3rd,
and fifth new iron rail laid down September 29th. It was turned over on December 16th,

and on February 16th, 1864, sixth new rail was put in. This was turned April 12th,

and seventh new rail put in its place, August 6th, 1864. Mr. Bessemer exhibited his
    a

rail at the last meeting of the British Association at Birmingham, after          had worn out
                                                                          it
                                                                                                a it
additional and neighbouring wrought-iron rails. It was not greatly worn, and had never

been turned. The Crewe station, with nearly three hundred time-table trains through

daily, besides great amount of shunting almost always going on, was laid with rails rolled
              a

from ingots cast by Messrs. Bessemer and Company, November 9th and 10th, 1861, and

year later, on the Prince of Wales's Birthday, Mr. Bessemer's exhibition rails, 35 ft. long,

rolled at Crewe, were laid in the up line, just out of the station.  None of these rails

have yet been turned, and we believe that Mr, Ramsbottom, and Captain Webb, of the

Crewe Works, anticipate sending the 35-ft. rails in good order to the next International

Exhibition, to which we are looking forward, in 1872.

     In 1861, the price of Bessemer steel rails was 22 per ton, but

in the following year the Metropolitan Railway paid only 17 per ton.

Although my father does not say so, steel rails were conspicuous
                         :

                                                            is
                                                                                   is

                                                                                            a
                                                                                                          it
feature in the Bessemer collection in the London Exhibition of 1862.

The following description of this exhibit              quoted from an appreciative

article in The Engineer

     There are also some close bends of rails, one of which    deserving special notice.

Mr. Ramsbottom, the able engineer of the railway works at Crewe, had this piece taken up

while covered with sharp frost, and placed under the large steam-hammer, where                                                                                stood

the blow necessary to double both ends together, without showing the smallest indications

of fracture      There are also some extraordinary examples of the toughness of the

Bessemer steel, made from British coke pig iron, among which may be enumerated two deep

vessels of    ft. in diameter, with flattened bottoms and vertical sides. At the top edge,
            1

               fis

                                             1

                                  |

                                                                      is
                                                                                      is

                                                                       A

                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                 !
                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                           .

                                                                                                                     it
one of these     in. and the other in. in thickness.    4-in. square bar has been so twisted,

while hot, that its angles have approached within less than half an inch of each other, so

that what was originally ft. length of surface has now become 26 ft., while the central

portion of the bar still preserves its original length of ft.        . By the present

process, although the number of operations  reduced by casting steel in large masses, its

cost as compared with that of wrought iron  somewhat increased.           Still,                                                                              compares

favourably considering its greater strength. The present causes of the costliness of steel are
                BESSEMER STEEL AT THE EXHIBITION OF 1862                                                                                                                 337

principally these : Melting the metal is expensive.  Such a high temperature is required

that the pots for very low steel stand only one or two meltings.  The subsequent heating

of immense ingots (one of Krupp's, in the Groat Exhibition, was 44 in. in diameter, and
8 ft. long) requires time and skill ; drawing them under ordinary hammers, not to speak

of its injurious effects, is a very long operation.  The careful preparation and selection of

the materials add considerably to the cost. Again, the business is now monopolised by a few

manufacturers.  Standard qualities of low steel bring a price much more disproportionate

than that of wrought iron, compared to the cost of production. Some of the processes are

                                                                  that very few establish-
                           a
                                  a

                                                 is
                                                                                                    is,

                                                                                                                                       a
secret, others are covered by patents ; but the chief difficulty

ments out of the whole number have undertaken the manufacture. Many of the large

British establishments have introduced the Bessemer process. In this country several iron-
masters pronounce this process failure, and propose to stick to puddling and piling. At

the same time others are doing all they can to develop this and similar improvements,

but are indifferently encouraged.  There  no doubt, however, that within                                                                  few years low

steel will be produced at  cheap rate all over the world. The wonderful success and

spread of the Bessemer process in England, France, Prussia, Belgium, Sweden, and even

in India, all within three or four years, prove that great talent and capital are already

concentrated on this subject, and promise the most favourable results.

And again       :
                                                                                                                                                                a
Among the specimens of Bessemer metal in the Exhibition of 1862 was                                                                                                      14-in.

octagonal ingot, broken at one end, and turned at the other end, to show that the metal
was perfectly solid. The turned end looked like forged steel. An 18-in. ingot, weighing
3136 lb., was the six thousand four hundred and tenth "direct steel" ingot made at the

works of Messrs. Henry Bessemer and Co.

There were also exhibited double-headed rail, 40 ft. long         24-pounder and 32-pounder
         a
                                                       a

                                                                                       is

                                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                      a
cannon;         250 horse-power crank-shaft, and several tyres without welds.                                                             The specimens

showing the wonderful ductility of the metal have been referred to. The Bessemer process

has been adopted during the last two or three years, since its early embarrassments were

overcome, with such great success, and by so many leading manufacturers in England, France,

Sweden, Belgium, and other European States, that its general substitution for all processes

for making either fine wrought iron or cheap low steel  now considered certain.

       One of the most important chapters in the history of the Bessemer                                                                                                 a
steel industry concerns its introduction and development in the United

States, and although he makes many suggestive references to this subject

in his Autobiography, Sir Henry does not give any details. An attempt

should therefore be made to supply this deficiency, though only in
very brief and imperfect way. Alexander Lyman Holley says, in his
book on Ordnance and Armour, written in 1863, that at that date,

the Bessemer process was to be tried on a working scale at Troy, in
the State of New York, by Messrs. Winslow, Griswold, and Holley.

                                                                                                            xx
338                              HENRY BESSEMER

The process was then in operation on a large scale in many places in

England and on the Continent ; but, almost seven years before, experi-
ments had been carried out by Messrs. Cooper and Hewitt at their

iron works in Philipsburgh, New Jersey, following the information

given them in Mr. Bessemer's British Association paper of 1856. At

the meeting of the British Iron and Steel Institute in America, in
1890, Mr. Abram S. Hewitt, said :

     Mr. Bessemer read his celebrated paper describing the process of producing steel without

fuel, at the Cheltenham meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science

in the summer of 1856 ; an imperfect report of this paper was published in the journals of the

Iday, and attracted my notice. The theory announced seemed to be entirely sound, and the
apparatus simple and effective.  gave orders at once, without further information than

that derived from the published report, to erect an experimental vessel for the purpose

of testing the possibility of producing steel direct from the blast furnace. In the same year

in which this paper was read the experiment was tried at the furnace of Cooper and Hewitt,

at Philipsburgh, in New Jersey, and the result served to show, beyond all doubt, that the

invention of Mr. Bessemer was one that could be successfully reduced to practice.

       This fixes the date of the first application of the Bessemer process

in the United States. However, nothing on a practical scale was done

until after A. L. Holley's visit to England in 1862, when, on behalf

of a syndicate known as the "Bessemer Association," one of the most
active members of which was Mr. Hewitt, he opened negotiations for
the purchase of the Bessemer American patents. These negotiations
were completed in 1864 ; but the opposition which Mr. Bessemer en-
countered up to that date, as is vividly related in his Autobiography,
delayed developments in the United States, and the Bessemer Association

was deterred from taking action by the widespread hostile articles in

the British press. A letter written by Holley, in September, 1866,

shows the actual position at that date.

     In view of the diverse statements of the English journals regarding the success of the
IBessemer process in this country, and of the improvements actually developed here,
                                                                                     trust

that some account of our practice will be interesting. The Bessemer process was first experi-

mentally practised in this country with a 3-ton converter, at the ironworks of Mr. E. B.

Ward, at Wyandotte, near Detroit, under the superintendence of Mr. L. M. Hart, who had

learned the Bessemer process at the works of Messrs. Jackson, in France

     Before the Wyandotte experiments were commenced, Messrs. Winslow, Griswold and

Holley, of Troy, had completed an arrangement with Mr. Bessemer and his associates for the
THE FIRST BESSEMER STEEL IN THE UNITED STATES                                        339

purchase of the Bessemer patents in the United States, and had commenced the erection

of a 2-ton experimental plant.      This plant was started in February, 1865, and has since

been in constant operation.     The first ingot made had a tensile strength of 65,000 Ib. per

square inch in the cast state, and 121,000 Ibs. when hammered to a 2 in. bar,     A 2-in.

bar was bent double cold. The first ingot was a fair representative of all the steel that has

since been manufactured at Troy. The pig iron used was smelted with charcoal from the

hematite and from the magnetic ores of the Lake Champlain, the Hudson Kiver, and the

Salisbury regions, and the Lake Superior iron, smelted either with charcoal near the mines,

or with bituminous coal in the Mahoning Valley of Ohio. Some of the Pennsylvania and

New Jersey anthracite irons produce steel equal in quality to that made from the English

hematites of the Cumberland regions, but not equal to that made from the American charcoal
irons mentioned. Some 100 tons of the best steel have been made from the Iron Mountain

ores of Missouri, smelted with charcoal, and from the charcoal hematite irons of central

Alabama. Sufficient experience has already been gained in the mixing of these various pigs

to produce, uniformly, all grades of steel. The only irons that have failed are those reduced

from surface ores, containing an excess of phosphorus, and those that have been smelted
with very sulphurous coal. As far as tested, probably three-quarters of the American pigs

produce first-rate Bessemer steel.

Meanwhile Messrs. Winslow, Griswold and Holley had commenced the erection of a

pair of 5-ton converters, and the Wyandotte Works were producing a good quality of steel

from the Lake Superior irons. The re-carboniser at both works has been the Franklinite
...pig iron of New Jersey, which is slightly richer in manganese than spiegeleisen.
                                                                                     At

the present time the 2-ton converter at Troy is producing 10 tons of ingot (six charges) per
twenty-four hours ; the 5-ton converter will be in operation next December. The Wyandotte

Works are producing a smaller quantity, but a good quality of steel. Of the licensees, the

Pennsylvania Steel Company, at Harrisburg, will be in operation early next year, with two

5-ton converters, a 25-in. three-high rail mill, a tyre mill, a plate mill, and a forge suited

to the manufacture of all ingots under 12 tons weight. Similar works at Chester, Penn-
sylvania, at Cleveland, in Ohio, are partially completed, and will be running during the
next year. Several other works in Pennsylvania and at the West will probably produce

steel within eighteen to twenty months of the present writing (September, 1866).

       The plans for the Pennsylvania Steel Company's Works were
prepared by my father himself, at Sheffield, and the plant was
almost wholly of English manufacture. The converters were made by
Messrs. Galloway and Sons, of Manchester, and the hammers by Messrs.
Thwaites and Carbutt, of Bradford.

       The first charge of Bessemer metal made in the United States was
run into ingots at Troy, on February 16th, 1865. The works were
very small, with two 2-ton converters, but the results obtained under
Holley 's able management were so surprising that tha Bessemer
340                          HENRY BESSEMER

Association required no further proof, and both practical steel-makers
and capitalists were convinced. During the month of May, 1865, no
less than eighty converter charges were run into ingots. This was
rapidly followed by the installation of two 5 -ton converters at Troy,
and the construction of the Pennsylvania Steel Company's Bessemer

Works at Harrisburg. During fifteen years Holley's life was spared to

build up the Bessemer process in America, and to make a lasting

monument for himself. In March, 1865, the two small converters at

Troy made 118 tons of Bessemer steel, or at the rate of 1,400 tons

in the year. In 1880 the output from two 5-ton converters was 14,000
tons. In 1868 the total output of Bessemer steel in America was
8,500 tons; the same year it was 110,000 tons in England. Eleven

years later the American production had equalled that of this country,
and since then it has always exceeded it.

       The Report of the Twelfth Census of the United States contains
an interesting account of the position of the Bessemer steel industry

in 1900. In that year forty-two establishments owned Bessemer con-

verters ; of these thirty-three were active and nine idle. The number
of active converters was seventy, and their daily capacity was 34,925

gross tons. The total production for the year exceeded 7,500,000 tons,

and its money value was nearly 27,000,000. These astonishing amounts
have been exceeded since 1900, as will be seen by the following figures
for 1902 ; those for Germany, Great Britain, and France being also

added :

                                                  Tons.

         United States  ... ... ... ...           ... 9,138,363

         Germany ... ... ... ... ... ... 5,229,939

         Great Britain  ... ... ... ... ... 1,825,779

         France  ...    ...  ...  ...        ...  ... 1,010,000

       These figures show clearly the stupendous growth of the Bessemer
steel industry in the United States, from the small converters at Troy

in 1865 : a development chiefly due to Holley's untiring energy and
skill. The secret of his progress and success was defined by Mr. Robert

W. Hunt, in a paragraph of a paper read by him before the American

Institute of Mining Engineers, and called " A History of the Bessemer

Manufacture in America." Mr. Hunt said :
AMERICAN BESSEMER PLANT                                      341

       After building the first experimental works at Troy, Mr. Holley seems to have at once
broken loose from the restraints of his foreign experience, and to have been impressed with
the capabilities of the new process. The result is that, mainly through his inventions and
modifications of the plant, we in America are to-day enabled to stand at the head of the
world in respect of amount of product.

       Referring to the modifications and improvements made in the
Bessemer process by Holley, and to which the great output of the
American Bessemer steel works is largely due, Mr. Hunt said further :

He did away with the English deep pit, and raised the vessels so as to get working

space under them on the ground floor; he instituted top-supported hydraulic cranes for the

more expensive English counterweighted ones; he put three ingot cranes around the pit

instead of two, and thereby obtained greater area of power.  He changed the location of

the vessels, as related to the pit and smelting-house.  He modified the ladle-crane, and

worked all the cranes and the vessels from a single point ; he substituted cupolas for

reverberatory furnaces ; and last, but by no means least, introduced the intermediate or accumu-

lative ladle, which is placed on scales, and thus insures accuracy of operation, by rendering

possible the weighing of each charge of melted iron, before pouring it into the converter.
These points cover the radical features of his innovations. After building such a plant, he

began to meet the difficulties in manufacture, among the most serious of which was the

short duration of the vessel bottoms, and the time required to cool off the vessel to a point

at which it was possible for workmen to enter and make new bottoms. After many experi-

ments, the result was the Holley vessel bottom, which, either in its form as patented, or

in a modification of it as now used in all American works, has rendered possible, as much

as any other one thing, the present immense production. Then he tried many forms of

cupolas at Troy, adopting in the original plant a changeable bottom, or section below the

tuyeres ; then, later, at Harrisburg, assisting Mr. S. B. Pearce, in developing the furnace to

a point, which rendered the many bottoms unnecessary, chiefly by deepening the bottom and

enlarging the tuyere area. Upon his rebuilding the Troy works, after their destruction by

fire, Mr. Holley put in the perfected cupolas. At this time the practice was to run a

cupola for a turn's melting, which had reached eight heats or forty tons of steel, and then

dropping its bottom. This was already an increase of 100 per cent, over his boast about

the same amount in twenty-nine hours.

      By the year 1865 the Bessemer process was firmly established on
the Continent. Krupp, of Essen, had installed a plant; the Bochum
Works had four 3-ton converters ; the Hoerde Company, near Dort-
mund, had two converters ; a steel works in Diisseldorf was completed
with two converters ; the Neuberg Works, in Styria, works at Grasse
and at Witkowitz, all made Bessemer steel ; as also did John Cockerill,

of Seraing ; Petin, Gaudet and Co., at Rive de Giers ; James Jackson
342              HENRY BESSEMER

and Co., of St. Severin, near Bordeaux, besides many others. During

that year the production of Bessemer steel on the Continent was about

100,000 tons. This and the following few years ripened the golden

harvest for my father, his royalties from all sources reaching a very high

figure. In 1869, however, his leading patent expired; and while this

gave a great impetus to the production of Bessemer steel, his income

arising from the royalties was much diminished.

      In the early 'sixties, when my father's process for the manufacture

of steel had triumphed over the many difficulties described in the

Iprevious pages, he determined on the establishment of steel works in
or near London.  may say here that this intention was chiefly for

the benefit of my brother and myself, the idea being that we should
carry on the works under the general supervision of my father. After

careful consideration, a site of about three acres was secured on the

banks of the Thames, just below Greenwich ; for this a long lease was

obtained. It was determined that the works should be only on a small

scale, comprising two 2j-ton converters, and all the plant necessary for

the production of steel on that basis. This plant included one 2^-ton
steam-hammer and another of smaller size ; the buildings were carefully

designed, with the intention that the establishment should in all respects

be a model one.

    IAt the time speak of, the Thames was a very busy shipbuilding

centre, and we naturally expected to find a large number of customers
ready to our hand. But before we were able to commence operations
the shipbuilding trade had deserted the Thames for the North, and

with this great change our expected customers had also disappeared.
Under these circumstances, my father did not consider it desirable for

us to open the works, although they were fully equipped, and he decided
upon letting them. This was done after considerable delay ; our first
tenants being the Steel and Ordnance Company, who, however, did

not achieve much success, and the factory became vacant after a few

years. Then we let it to Messrs. Appleby Brothers, who were general
engineers, and did not propose to become steel makers. For this reason

the whole of the steel-making plant was disposed of, and the scheme

for manufacturing Bessemer steel on the Thames was finally abandoned.
                THE ORIGINAL OF THE " POPOFPKA "                   343

Again, after some delay, we found the place on our hands, and this

Itime my brother and determined upon converting the long lease into

a freehold : an operation effected only with much difficulty and after

prolonged negotiations. Then followed a considerable period when the

works remained untenanted, but we eventually let them to a company

for the manufacture of linoleum. This time there was no doubt about

the success of the undertaking, and the company added to the size of

the works until nearly the whole of the three acres was covered with
Abuildings.
                few years since we sold the property to this company,

and thus terminated our connection with the works my father had

originally built for us.                 long before  the episode  of the
                                         saloon, my   father had    given
     It may not be generally known that

Bessemer steam-ship, with its swinging

Imuch attention to the Channel crossing, a voyage which he heartily
disliked. At the time  speak of, his idea was to construct a large

circular vessel about 200 ft. in diameter, of a double-convex form in

cross-section, and large enough to float over two or three Channel waves

at a time ; in the hull were to be contained the necessary propelling

machinery, cabin accommodation, etc., and in the centre was to be
a raised circular deck about one-third of the vessel's diameter. This

scheme, so far as my father was concerned, never went beyond the

stage of a general design ; but Admiral Popoff, at that time a prominent

Russian naval constructor, and an acquaintance of my father, was much

struck with the idea, and embodied it in a vessel he built for the Russian

Navy. A model of this vessel, which was called the " Popoffka," is

now in the Musee de la Marine, at the Louvre, in Paris.

     A very conspicuous feature in my father's character was his intense

love of home and its surroundings : a sentiment which endured to the

last days of his life, and never grew slack, even during the busiest
and most harassed periods. He always found time to make alterations
and improvements, and to decorate his own home with the natural taste

that belonged to him, and which he had inherited from his father.
During his later years he extended this love of domestic improvements
to the houses of his children, all of which bore the impress of his

individuality.
344                                HENRY BESSEMER

      During his long life he did not shift his home frequently. From

the humble beginnings, commencing with his marriage, we read in his

Autobiography of his moving into Baxter House ; and, after some years,

when the large returns from the bronze-powder business permitted
                                                                                 a
he has told us how he indulged his natural longings for                                        it,
                                                                                                                                              country

life by the acquisition of         a                house and grounds, which he called

" Charlton," at Highgate. Here he lived for number of years, until
                                                    a

he made  a     last change to Denmark Hill, where he found                       a  charming

though unpretentious house, with beautiful and extensive grounds.

Settled here, the alterations and improvements that he made, both in

house and gardens, occupied and amused him for a number of years.

This may be a matter of very small moment to the general reader, but

to me    possesses special interest, knowing as do how the house at
      I it                                          is
                                a
Denmark Hill became an inseparable part of my father's life. For thisit
XLIIL,reason venture to give, in Fig. 88, Plate
                                                            I                    view of the house,

                                                                           is a
this view showing on the left-hand side the conservatory which he designed

and erected. An interior view of this conservatory                               given in Fig. 89,
IfPlate XLIV.
                serving no other purpose, will show that my father's

capabilities as a designer and decorator were of no mean order. Another

example of his talents in this direction            given in Fig. 90, Plate XLV.,

which shows the interior of grotto constructed by him in his grounds
a                                                                                                                                             ;
                   is

                                                 a
the mound within which this was built was formed by the excavation

of large lake which he had made. As will be seen from the illustration,

the grotto      of an elaborately ornate character, both design and

colouring having been taken from one of the courts of the Alhambra.

Illusions of distance were produced by the ingenious application of

large mirrors.

      From the charming Autobiography of that great engineer, James

Nasmyth, take the liberty of making the following extract, and basing
         it

           aI
upon     comparison of his career with that of my father. Mr. Nasmyth

says  :

      "The 'Dial of Life' [see Fig. 91] gives brief summary of my career. It shows the brevity

of life and indicates the tale that soon told. The first part of the semicircle includes the

passage from infancy to boyhood and manhood. While that period lasts, time seems to pass
very slowly. We long to be men, and doing men's work. What have called the Tableland
                                   is
                                                   a

                                                               I
                                                                                                                                           '
PLATE XLIT1

             -

                                         pq
                                          H

                              w

                                         oo
                                         QO
PLATE XLTV

                  J

                                 w

                      oO

                                             K

                                 H

                                            00

                                  e
PLATE XLV
                              THE DIAL OF LIFE                           345

of Life' is then reached. Ordinary observation shows that between thirty and fifty the full

strength of body and mind is reached, and at that period we energise our faculties to the
utmost.

               FIG. 91.                          THE DIAL OF LIFE

                              "DIAL OF LIFE" FOR MR. JAMES NASMYTH.

"Those who are blessed with good health and a sound constitution may prolong the

period of energy to sixty or even seventy ; but Nature's laws must be obeyed, and the period

of decline begins and goes on with accelerated rapidity. Then comes old age; and as we

descend the semicircle towards eighty, we find that the remnant of life becomes vague and
         IBy shading off, as
cloudy.                       have done, the portion of the area of the diagram according

to the individual age, everyone may see how much of life is consumed and how much is
left D.V.

"Here is my brief record:

o Year.

         1808  Born, August 19th.

         9 1817 Went to the High School, Edinburgh.

13 1821 Attended the School of Arts.

21 1829 Went to London to Maudslay's.

23 1831 Returned to Edinburgh to make my engineer's tools.
26 1834 Went to Manchester to begin business.

28 1836 Removed to Patricroft and built the Bridgewater Foundry.

31 1839 Invented the steam-hammer.

32 1840 Marriage.

34 1842 First visit to France and Italy.

35 1843 Visit to St. Petersburg, Stockholm, Dannemora.

37 1845 Application of the steam-hammer to pile-driving.

48 1856 Retired from business, to enjoy the rest of my life in the active pursuit

               of my most favourite occupations."

                                                                     YY
346           HENRY BESSEMER

     It will be interesting to compare the foregoing with my father's

record, which stands as follows, his " Dial of Life " being given in
Fig. 92 :

                                                          THE DIAL OF LIFE

              FIG. 92. "DIAL OF LIFE" FOE SIR HENRY BESSEMER

Age    Year.  Born, 19th of January.
       1813   Arrived in London.
  17    1830
  20   1833   Improvements in Government stamps.
  21   1834
  30    1843  Marriage.
  42    1855  Manufacture of bronze powder.
  43    1856  First patent for manufacture of iron and steel, October 15th.
              Paper read before the Cheltenham Meeting of British Association,
  45    1858
  49    1862          August 24th.
   50   1863  Bessemer Works started at Sheffield.
   52   1865  First Bessemer steel rail laid at Camden Goods Station, May 9th.
              Bessemer steel first used in the construction of ships.
   56   1869  First Bessemer Works started in America, by A. L. Holley, at
   59   1872
   66   1879         Troy, U.S.A.
  85    1898  Bessemer Saloon patented.
              Retired from business.

              Knighted, ^une 26th.
              Pied, March 15th.

       When describing the first announcement of his great steel invention
at the British Association Cheltenham Meeting, in 1856*, my father
referred to the encouraging and generous remarks made by Mr. James

              * See page 162, ante
FIG. 93. FAC-SIMILE OF A LET
                                                                  PLATE XLVI

                                        t4\fr      Q
                                            * tJ  -* 9^t-*-\

                                                              JJ

                                        A*-/

                                     /
                          t. v

FHOM ]\IR. JAMES XASMYTH
                      NASMYTH'S SYSTEM OF PUDDLING                                347

Nasmyth. On searching through a mass of miscellaneous papers in my

Ipossession, came across an interesting correspondence between Nasmyth

and my father, and it seems to me that the facsimile of a letter,

reproduced in Fig. 93, Plate XL VI., will be read with interest; it is

a characteristic letter, and shows that the generous impulse, which so

encouraged my father during the discussion of his memorable paper of

1856 had remained unaltered twenty-five years later.

       On turning to the Autobiography referred to in his letter by

IMr. Nasmyth, as giving him so much pleasure in the preparation,

find that some references are made to this correspondence.                        He says :

IIn 1854  took out a patent for puddling iron by means of steam. Many of my readers

may not know that cast iron is converted into malleable iron by the process called puddling.

The iron, while in a molten state, is violently stirred and agitated by a stiff iron rod, having

its end bent like a hoe or flattened hook, by which every portion of the molten metal is

exposed to the oxygen of the air, and the supercharge of carbon which the cast iron contains

is thus burnt out. When this is effectually done the iron becomes malleable and weldable.

This state of the iron is indicated by a general loss of fluidity, accompanied by a

tendency to gather together in globular masses. The puddler, by his dexterous use of the

rabbling-bar, puts the masses together, and, in fact, welds the new-born particles into puddle-

balls of about three-quarter cwt. each. These are successively removed from the pool of the

puddling furnace, and subjected to the energetic blows of the steam-hammer, which drives out

all the scoriae lurking within the spongy puddle-balls, and thus welds them into compact

masses of malleable iron. When re-heated to a welding heat, they are rolled ont into flat

bars or round rods, in a variety of sizes so as to be suitable for the consumer.

The manual and physical labour of the puddler is tedious, fatiguing, and unhealthy.

IThe process of puddling occupies about an hour's violent labour, and only robust young men
can stand the fatigue and violent heat.  had frequent opportunities of observing the labour

and unhealthiness of the process, as well as the great loss of time required to bring it to a

conclusion. It occurred to me that much of this could be avoided by employing some other

means of getting rid of the superfluous carbon, and bringing the molten cast iron into a

malleable condition.

The method that occurred to me was the substitution of a small steam-pipe in the

place of the puddler's rabbling-bar.  By having the end of this steam pipe bent downwards,

so as to reach the bottom of the pool, and then to discharge a current of steam beneath the
I Isurface of the molten cast iron,
                                      thought that should by this simple means supply a
Imost effective carbon oxidising agent, at the same time that produced a powerful agitating

action within the pool. Thus the steam would be decomposed and supply oxygen to the

carbon of the cast iron, while the mechanical action of the rush of steam upwards would

cause so violent a commotion throughout the pool of melted iron as to exceed the utmost

efforts of the labour of the puddler. All the gases would pass up the chimney of the
348                                     HENRY BESSEMER

puddling furnace, and the puddler would not be subject to their influence.  Such was the

method specified in my patent of 1854.*
      My friend Thomas Lever Rushton, proprietor of the Bolton Iron Works, was so much

impressed with the soundness of the principle, as well as with the great simplicity of

carrying the invention into practical effect, that he urged me to secure the patent, and he

soon after gave me the opportunity of trying the process at his works. The results were

most encouraging. There was a great saving of labour and time compared with the old

puddling process; aud the malleable iron produced was found to be of the highest order

as regarded strength, toughness, and purity. My process was soon after adopted by several

iron manufacturers, with equally favourable results. Such, however, was the energy of the

steam, that unless the workmen were most careful to regulate its force and the duration of its

action, the waste of iron by undue oxidation was such as in great measure to neutralise its

commercial gain as regarded the superior value of the malleable iron thus produced.

    IBefore had time or opportunity to remove this commercial difficulty, Mr. Bessemer

had secured his patent of the 17th of October, 1855. By this patent he employed a blast

Iof air to do the same work as had proposed to accomplish by means of a blast of steam,

forced up beneath the surface of the molten cast iron. He added some other improvements,

with that happy fertility of invention which has always characterised him. The results were

so magnificently successful as to totally eclipse my process, and to cast it comparatively into

I Ithe shade. At the same time may say that was in a measure the pioneer of his invention ;
Ithat initiated a new system, and led up to one of the most important improvements in

the manufacture of iron and steel that has ever been given to the world.

     Mr. Bessemer brought the subject of his invention before the Meeting of the British

Association at Cheltenham in the autumn of 1856. There he read his Paper "On the
IManufacture of Iron and Steel without Fuel."
                                               was present on the occasion, and listened
Ito his statement with mingled feelings of regret and enthusiasm : of regret, because
                                                                                       had
                                                                                Ibecause
been so clearly superseded and excelled in my performances ; and of enthusiasm

could not but admire and honour the genius who had given so great an invention to the
Imechanical world.
                    immediately took the opportunity of giving my assent to the principles

which he had propounded. My words were not reported at the time, nor was Mr. Bessemer's

Paper printed by the Association, perhaps because it was thought of so little importance.

I ...But, on applying to Mr. (now Sir Henry) Bessemer, he was so kind as to give me his
recollection of the words which used on the occasion.               It was thoroughly consistent

with Mr Bessemer's kindly feelings towards me that, after our meeting at Cheltenham,

he made me an offer of one-third share of the value of his patents.         This would have
I Ibeen another fortune to me. But                                           just then taking
                                        had already made money enough.
                                         I did not need to plunge into any such
down my signboard and leaving business.
Itempting enterprise, and therefore thankfully declined the offer.

    I need not refer in this place to my father's reply to Mr. Nasmyth's

letter; to do so would be only to repeat what he has already written

      * Specification of James Nasmyth  "Employment of Steam in the Process of Puddling
Iron." May 4th, 1854 ; No. 1001
                                                                                                                                   349

in the earlier pages of his Autobiography. It will be noticed that at
the end of his letter, reproduced in Fig. 93, Plate XL VI., Mr. Nasmyth

expresses the hope that my father was making satisfactory progress
with his telescope. And this naturally leads me to say something about

a pursuit which, if it had no practical and useful conclusion, at all

events afforded my father a congenial occupation for many years.

      With the termination of the Saloon Steam-ship episode, my father's
active business career came to an end. That was in the year 1873,
when he was about sixty years of age, so that nearly a quarter of a
century of busy relaxation was still in store for him. Not that the
collision of the " Bessemer " with the pier at Calais terminated that

unfortunate incident ; on the contrary, as my father has already shown,

several years elapsed before the business was entirely closed. Still it
occupied only a small portion of his time, and he was left free to follow
congenial pursuits. During twenty-five years of his strenuous life he

had accumulated what was, for that time, a large fortune, though modest

enough if compared with the standard of to-day. So that his later

years were not only entirely free from business cares, but also from

financial anxieties.
       That so active a man could remain without occupation was evidently

impossible ; his house and grounds, in which he took unwearying delight,
had been developed and improved until they afforded him little beyond
the routine occupation of management, and he naturally turned his
attention to some work which should give full play to his mechanical

abilities. As matters turned out, four different pursuits occupied him
fully up to the year of his death. These were the construction of an
observatory and telescope ; his experiments with a solar furnace ; the
installation of a diamond-polishing factory for the benefit of his grandson ;
and his Autobiography. The last named has told us the story of his
active life in a characteristic manner. The diamond-polishing factory,

to be referred to presently, was an assured success ; as for the telescope

and the solar furnace, it is as well to state at the commencement that
neither proved of any practical value, although they provided for him
a never-failing source of enjoyment.

      My father's first ambition was to construct a refracting telescope
350  HENRY BESSEMER

with a 50-in. objective. Fortunately for himself, he soon realised the
impossibility of achieving this ambition : not only on account of the
enormous cost of so large a lens, but because no one could be found,
at that time, to undertake its production with any chance of success.

Therefore he was quickly led to the construction of a reflecting telescope,
which did not seem to present such insurmountable difficulties. More-

over, this had the special attraction to him that he resolved to make
the reflector himself- a mistake, of course, so far as the scientific outcome

of his work was concerned, but a success in the main respect, namely,

that of giving him congenial occupation. At first he tried a speculum

metal of the same alloy as that used by Lord Rosse in his great
Parsonstown reflector ; that is to say, a mixture of copper and tin,

in the proportions of 126.4 of the former to 58.9 parts of the latter.

This alloy, however, in my father's hands did not prove satisfactory.
He found it extremely brittle and difficult to cast ; moreover, it was
entirely unsuited for turning in the lathe, and it was my father's

intention to give the reflector its proper form by mechanical cutting

and grinding. His early experience of alloys naturally led him to
engage in a long series of experiments with different mixtures.
Ultimately, however, he determined to abandon the use of metal, and to

employ instead a disc of glass, which should be trued up and polished to
the correct figure, and afterwards coated with silver. Before commencing
his operations, he built and equipped a workshop at Denmark Hill.

Besides the necessary steam power, this workshop contained a number

of ordinary tools ; but the main feature was a special grinding and
polishing machine, which he designed and had built from his own

Idrawings. A sketch of this machine somewhat imperfect, as have

made it from memory is shown in Figs. 94 and 95. It comprised a
long and rigid bed A A, with a head-stock B B, on the spindle of

which are the driving pulleys C and two face-plates D E. These

latter were rather more than 5 ft. in diameter, so as to take the 50 in.

glass discs from which the reflectors were to be made. At the other

end of the bed was a pin G, on which there was mounted a cast-iron
frame F, the frame being free to swing horizontally on the pin. As will
be seen from the diagrams, the size of this swinging frame was increased
                     MIRROR GRINDING MACHINE                                                                                                                                                351

as it approached the head-stock, until it was large enough to enclose the
latter, and to oscillate without coming into contact either with the head-

stock or with the face-plate on which the glass disc was mounted.
Within the large end of the oscillating frame was fixed a bar, to the
end of which was secured a black diamond that formed the cutting
tool. The bar could be moved backwards or forwards to vary the depth
of cut ; and as the frame was traversed to-and-fro, the tool described
an arc of a circle which could be varied within narrow limits, so as to
modify the degree of curvature, and, consequently, the length of focus

u  CV             D                                   FIG. 94
B                                              ih~ ~~H~

r as^p***$'                                                                  f nQ
                                           ui
                                                                         A

                                                                                                           !_,_
-1

                        1-

                               l-
                                                                                                                                 III[T]
                                                                                                                                                           III m
                                                                                                                                                                                         !

                                                                FIG. 95
                                               MIRROR GRINDING MACHINE

given to the reflector. When this apparatus was set in movement, the

revolution of the face-plate, combined with the oscillating motion of the
Aframe, gradually gave concave surface to the disc of glass.
                  a                                                                        reverse
                       a

                            E

                                              ;

                                        it

                                                                                        a
action could also be obtained by mounting the tool-holder on the

extreme end of the oscillating frame, with the diamond cutter pointing

inwards, in such     way that                  could operate on                            disc of glass

mounted on the face-plate                      in this way convex, instead of concave,
surfaces could be formed.                      A number of both classes of discs were
roughed out and polished
                                               by this machine.          It was found necessary

to do the finishing work at night, because during the day sudden

variations in temperature occurred which altered the length of the
352             HENRY BESSEMER

oscillating frame F, and so changed the curvature of the surfaces

produced.

       The design, installation, and operation of this machine, occupied my

father for a long time ; it was made with great care ; but the surfaces

it produced lacked the accuracy and form necessary for lenses or mirrors

intended for astronomical work, and it never found any useful application.

     Whilst the workshop and its equipment were in progress, my father

commenced the construction of the observatory in which the telescope
It(never to be completed) was to be mounted.
                                              was altogether a very

beautiful and ingenious piece of work, and calls for a short description.

     Fig. 96, Plate XL VII., gives an excellent idea of the general

appearance of the observatory ; as will be seen, it was built on a slight

eminence, and the circular gallery around it was approached by a flight

of steps. The observatory itself was about 40 ft. in diameter, and the

whole structure, vertical walls as well as domed roof, revolved very

freely on a circular rail and a ring of wheels, some of which served as

bearing and the remainder as driving wheels, the latter being actuated

by an endless steel- wire rope ; motion was imparted by a small turbine

working at a head of about 70 ft. By a simple method of reversing,

the dome could be caused to revolve either to the right or the left, and

the speed of revolution could be so regulated, that one complete turn

of the observatory could be effected in two or three minutes, or in

twenty-four hours. As will be seen from the illustration, the side

walls of the dome were pierced with openings for windows and a door,

so that access to the interior could be always obtained from the outer

gallery ; the position of the sliding shutter in the cupola is clearly shown

in the illustration. The telescope was mounted on trunnions, in bearings

at the end of a vertical pillar resting on very solid foundations, and, of

course, the observatory floor was framed solidly to the dome, and

moved with it.

      The telescope itself, which unfortunately was never finished, is

illustrated by Figs. 97 and 98, Plates XLVIII. and XLIX. Fig. 97

shows the gallery floor, at the level of which are the trunnions carrying

the telescope. In Fig. 98, Plate XLIX., which is a view on the ground

floor of the observatory, it will be seen that the foundation for the
PLATE XLYII
PLATE XLVIII

                                                  1-
                                                 OS
                                                              PLATE XLIX

FIG. 98. INTERIOR UK OBSERVATORY, GROUMJ
                      THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE TELESCOPE  353

telescope was surmounted by a steel ring carried on a series of short
columns ; on the face of this ring was a roller-path on which the central

column of the telescope took its bearing, and could be turned with very
little effort. The column, and with it the telescope, were turned by means
of hydraulic machinery, the velocity of which could be adjusted exactly
to the same rate as that of the dome, so that the turning rate of

the two was identical. As will be seen by Fig. 98, the body of the
telescope consisted of a very rigid open cast-iron frame, with a solid

ring in the centre carrying the trunnions, and at the lower end it termi-

nated in a ribbed and dish-shaped casting intended to receive the large

concave reflector. The central band and trunnions are better shown in

Fig. 97 ; on these the telescope could oscillate from a vertical to a

horizontal position.  This movement was effected by an ingenious
                                                         A large gun-metal
arrangement, indicated in both the illustrations.

wheel was mounted on each trunnion, and immediately below, but not

in contact, was a second wheel. On each side was an hydraulic cylinder,

the plunger of which terminated in a long  flat steel bar that passed
                                           spoken of as being placed
between the two gun-metal wheels, already  plunger was run in and

on each side of the telescope.  As the

out, the bar moving between the two wheels gave           motion to the
latter, and, of course, caused the telescope to turn.    The speed was
controlled with the utmost delicacy by a small valve,    which regulated

the flow of water into the cylinders. This valve was, of course, worked

by the observer. The position of the finders on the telescope is shown
clearly in the illustration.

      As may naturally be supposed, every detail connected with the

observatory and the telescope was planned by my father, and showed

throughout his characteristic ingenuity, engineering knowledge, and
correct taste. The undertaking occupied him almost to the time of his
death ; but unfortunately it was far from complete, and with him died

the personal interest necessary for the completion of an undertaking so

full of ideas.

     A series of experiments which gave great occupation to my father

for quite a long period grew directly out of his work with the telescope ;

and though they led to no practical result, this notice would be
                                                                                                                         zz
354             HENRY BESSEMER

Iincomplete if  did not refer to them. The object my father had

in view was to ascertain to what extent concentrated solar rays could

be employed in the creation of very high temperatures ; he aimed,

in fact, at making a solar furnace in which the most refractory material

could be readily broken down. He expended a great deal of time and money

in this pursuit, and the experimental furnace which he built is illustrated

by the diagrams on page 355, Fig. 99 showing roughly his preliminary

experimental arrangements and Fig. 100 the finished device. In Fig. 99,

on a table was placed a swing mirror a, and at a convenient height above

this was fixed a concave reflector b, about 12 in. in diameter ; a lens c

6 in. in diameter was mounted above the table, the various parts being so

arranged as to produce the following result : The solar rays striking the

mirror at an angle, were thrown up to the concave reflector, and sent
back to the lens which focussed them at the point b. From this

experimental apparatus the solar furnace illustrated in Fig. 100 was
constructed ; as will be seen, it was almost precisely identical with the

earlier form. The tower-like structure was carried on wheels running

on a circular rail laid in the shallow pit which formed the foundation;

the platform on which the tower was built was about 18 ft. in diameter.

The tower itself was 12 ft. square and about 30 ft. in height ; the front

side was open, but could be closed by sliding shutters when the apparatus
was not at work ; the lower part was cut off by a large mirror placed at

an angle which could be adjusted within moderate limits. Beneath this

mirror was the small furnace, access to which was obtained by a door at

the back of the tower. The mirror, about 12 ft. square, was carried by a

strong cast-iron frame closely boarded over, so that the silvered glass was

entirely supported. In the centre was cut a circular opening about 3 ft. in

diameter. The cast-iron mirror frame was mounted on trunnions, so that

its angle could, as already stated, be altered to suit the altitude of the

sun. In the circular opening, and in the position shown in the diagram,

Fig. 100, was mounted a lens 30 in. in diameter, and immediately beneath

was placed the crucible already referred to ; the frame on which this crucible

was mounted could be raised or lowered, so as to reduce or increase the

degree of heat obtained by the concentration of the solar rays. In the

upper part of the tower was placed the large concave reflector, which was
          THE SOLAR FURNACE

FIG. 99.                                                   FIG. 100.
          THE BESSEMER SOLAR FURNACE
356                            HENRY BESSEMER

about 10 ft. in diameter, and was formed of a concave cast-iron frame ;

into this were fitted one hundred hexagonal glass plates, each slightly
concave on the lower surface, and convex at the back. The backs of

these plates were silvered, and afterwards coated with copper ; each of

them formed a small reflector, to the back of which were secured three

copper studs to receive screws, by means of which the plate was attached

to the cast-iron frame. This arrangement was found necessary, because

each plate had to be so adjusted as to act as a separate reflector,

throwing its rays down to the 30-in. lens beneath ; as may be imagined,

the adjustment of these reflectors was a very long and tedious operation.
As the position of each reflector was finally fixed, its face was covered

over with water-colour, to prevent the focussing of the rays through

the lower lens while the others were being adjusted ; when all the parts

were completed the paint was washed off, and the reflector was ready
Afor use.
           screen was introduced to cut off the whole of the reflected

rays, and only to permit them gradually to focus on the crucible beneath

the lens ; this precaution was taken to prevent any great and sudden

heat destroying the crucible.

      Experiments made with this furnace were somewhat disappointing,
as it never developed the amount of heat expected ; copper was melted

and zinc was vapourised, but its efficiency ought to have been much
greater. The non-success was attributed to the inaccuracy of the small

hexagonal reflectors, which caused considerable dispersion of the rays,
and consequently a great loss in heat. After some years of experimental

work, my father became disheartened, and abandoned the solar furnace.

     It was in the early part of 1868 that my father commenced his

experiments with the apparatus for the concentration of solar heat,
Iwhich
        have just described, and these experiments naturally were

continued for a considerable time. While he had them under con-

sideration, the question of the cause of the great heat of the sun

naturally engaged his attention; and he busied himself by working out

a theory which would account for it. He was led to the conclusion that

the combustion going on in the sun attained its very great intensity

largely owing to the pressure under which it took place. As the force
of gravity at the sun's surface is about 27.6 times as great as it is on
                     COMBUSTION UNDER PRESSURE                                                                                                                                             357

the surface of the earth, all the incandescent solar gases must be

maintained in a state 27.6 times as dense as they would be if they

formed a portion of our own atmosphere. My father was therefore

struck with the idea that the great intensity of the solar heat might

be simply due to the fact that combustion took place under very

much higher pressure than combustion naturally does on the earth.

No sooner did this solution suggest itself to him than he resolved
                                                      to have " a little
to test it by actual experiment, or, as he expressed
                                   a
                                                                    2 it,

                                                                                              a
                                                                                                         a
sun of his own." He was at that time desirous of carrying out

series of researches on the fusion, vaporisation, and re-crystallisation

of the more refractory metals, and of other so-called infusible substances.
As the first step towards attaining this result, he constructed small

cupola furnace, so made that the products of combustion, instead of

escaping freely as usual, were checked, in consequence of the mouth

of the cupola being narrowed to diameter of some in. The result

of this arrangement was that when air was blown into the furnace

at considerable pressure the products of combustion within the furnace

were raised to several pounds above the atmospheric pressure, and

combustion accordingly took place under this pressure.

      With this furnace my father obtained results as brilliant as the

conception to which the furnace owed its origin. While the furnace

was worked at pressures of from 15 to 18 Ib. per square inch above

the atmosphere, the temperature obtained was such that steel and

even wrought iron    might be melted more readily than cast iron in
an ordinary cupola.
                     Thus on one occasion,  piece of 2-in. square bar
3
                1

                                  is
                                                a
                                                                        a

                                                                 it

                                                                                                a

                                                                                                                                                                                        ;
iron,  ft. long, and weighing 13 Ib., was introduced cold into the

furnace, and was completely fused in five and a-half minutes while

cwt. of wrought-iron scrap, also introduced cold into the same

furnace, was run off in a completely fused state in fifteen minutes.

These results were obtained in small model furnace, without much

greater expenditure of coke than would take place in an ordinary

cupola furnace melting cast iron.

       There were naturally considerable mechanical difficulties to be over-

come in making tight furnace wherein such high temperatures prevailed,
and one of these worth referring to, as illustrates the happy way in
358  HENRY BESSEMER

which my father could meet very serious obstacles by devices which
were exceedingly simple, and at the same time eminently successful.

At the place at which the joint occurred, and which, of course, was liable

to be rapidly cut out by the leakage of flame and products of com-
bustion at an intense temperature, he provided a hollow ring, which

was connected to the main blast pipe, and therefore received air at a
pressure of a few pounds higher than existed in the body of the
furnace. The result was that whatever leakage took place was a
leakage of cold air into the furnace, and this cold air completely
protected the surfaces which otherwise might have been eroded by the

gases.

      After success had been attained in a small furnace, my father

designed : first, an ordinary cupola furnace ; next, a reverberatory
furnace for the melting of steel scrap ; and, later, a Bessemer converter,
all of which were intended to be worked under pressure. The matter,
however, was not proceeded with beyond this point. To-day the
electric furnace provides still higher temperatures in a more convenient

manner ; and it is not likely that combustion under pressure will ever
be resorted to in practical work. Nevertheless, it was a brilliant

conception, and was admirably worked out.

      Whilst engaged in his experiments connected with the cutting of
the glass discs to form the mirror for his telescope, my father had occasion
to visit the diamond-cutting factories which existed in Clerkenwell at that
time ; and in that industry he, with his ardent temperament, took imme-

diately a keen interest. It happened that about 1884 he was anxious

to establish one of his grandsons in business, and he accordingly made
arrangements by which, under the name of Messrs. Ford and Wright, a

diamond-cutting and polishing factory should be installed in Clerkenwell.
London, two hundred years ago, was one of the chief centres of this
industry ; but it gradually became supplanted by France and Holland, until
the most important diamond-cutting factories in the world were established
in Amsterdam, which is still the chief seat of the industry. The
trade meanwhile had died out of London, and was practically re-established

by the energy and ingenuity of Sir Henry Bessemer, acting on behalf

of Mr. Ford, and his grandson, Mr. Wright. It is almost needless to
DIAMOND POLISHING MACHINES  859

                                 I

                                  fc

                                 I1

                                  Q
                                  O

                                 COO
360  HENRY BESSEMER

say that the ancient methods of diamond-cutting and polishing still in
vogue did not at all suit the ideas of my father, who could not rest
contented until he had designed and installed an entirely new plant on
strictly mechanical and economical lines. The Clerkenwell factory

                          FIG. 104. METHOD OP DRIVING DIAMOND POLISHING MACHINES

was indeed a startling contrast to the Dutch diamond-cutting works,
in which all the mechanical appliances were of a very primitive description,
and the admirable results obtained are due entirely to the wonderful
skill of the workmen.

     A detailed account of Messrs. Ford and Wright's factory will be
found on page 123 of Vol. XLVIT. of Engineering, from which the annexed
          DIAMOND POLISHING MACHINES                             361

illustrations are taken, and a description summarised. The cutting and
polishing machines were quite small, and a number of them were arranged
in a row upon a bench in the workshop ; the factory included several of
these benches. One of the machines is illustrated in Figs. 101 to 103,
page 359, while Fig. 104 is a diagram showing the method of driving a
complete series. Each mill consisted in its main parts of a cast-iron
bracket, above and below the bench ; of a vertical spindle n, carrying
above the bench a heavy disc, and below the bench a double-grooved
pulley m, which received the driving cord, by which a very rapid

          FIG. 105. METHOD OP DKIVING DIAMOND POLISHING MACHINE

rotation was transmitted to the spindle and disc.  As will be

seen from the illustration, Fig. 101, the top and bottom of the

spindle were pointed, and ran in bearings made of lignum vitce; these

blocks were set in tapered metal bushes, and the position of the upper

one could be adjusted by the set screw x. It will be noticed that a

ring k was introduced above the lower bearing, to prevent the lubri-

cating oil used from being thrown out ; the driving disc was protected

by a guard. All the mills were of the same pattern, and were driven,

as explained, by endless ropes. Fig. 104 shows the method of trans-

mission.  The benches were divided by a gangway across the centre ;

                                                                                                                             3A
362                              HENRY BESSEMER

underneath this, in the basement, was the steam engine and trans-

mission pulleys, which gave motion to six belts. These passed from
the main shaft on to the pulleys o, Fig. 105, these pulleys being
mounted on spindles m, carried on the brackets d, the position of

which on the vertical frame c could be adjusted by a screw. At

the other end of the pulley spindle was the rope pulley n, driving the
main cotton rope, which rose vertically to the level of the working

benches, and then was taken round the pulleys on the spindles, as shown
in Fig. 104. The speed of the engine was multiplied until that of
the pulleys was nearly 3000 revolutions ; any mill could be stopped by
throwing the rope out of contact with the double-grooved pulley on the
spindle, by means of the lever e and the frame g, Figs. 101 and 103.

       The following description of the manner in which these mills

were operated is extracted from the article in Engineering above

referred to :

     The natural angles of the stones are so sharp that if applied to the discs of the

mills they would rapidly cut them away, and practically ruin them.  These angles are,

therefore, abraded in the first instance by hand. Two diamonds are mounted on sticks or

holders, and the operator, taking one in each hand, uses an angle of one gem to cut

off or reduce an angle of the other, and in this way he gradually removes them all,

carefully catching the dust which falls, for subsequent use. Originally the stone was practi-
cally shaped in this way, and it was only the polishing that was done on the mill, for the

supply of diamond dust was limited to that obtained by the mutual attrition of the gems.
But now there is obtainable an ample supply of small diamonds which are worthless for

decorative purposes, either from the presence of flaws, or from the poorness of their

colour. They are placed in a steel mortar with a tight-fitting cover, and are gradually ground

into a fine powder, which is used upon the mills, and serves to do most of the work which
was formerly effected in the way just described. The whole process is now called polishing,

the two processes of grinding and finishing being simultaneous.  it is mounted                                                                           in a ball
      After the natural angles of the stone have been removed,

of lead about the size of a large walnut or small apple.   The metal is heated till it

               it
                    is
                         is it

                                    a
                                                     is
                                                                     a

                                                                                           a
                                                                                     is

                                                                                            it,
                                                                                                          is

                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                              is
reaches the plastic stage, when the jewel is pressed into  leaving visible the particular

surface which         desired to grind. The metal  very easily manipulated by those who

have the skilly and can be "wiped" to one side or the other so as to vary the position

of the stone and give  greater or less prominence. At the opposite side of the lead ball

to the diamond there   stalk of brass wire, and once the metal      set, this stalk offers

the only means of adjustment by being bent to one side or the other. It perfectly

marvellous how thirty-two facets can be cut on diamond no larger than hemp-seed with

such means as these. The cutter  truly handicraftsman, for he depends entirely on the

senses of sight and touch, and has no apparatus to aid him in making his minute divisions.
              THE FREEDOM OP THE COMPANY OF TURNERS  363

When the diamond has been fixed in its bed the stalk is clamped in a holder, which

consists of a heavy bar with a hole to receive the stalk at one end, and two feet at

the other end. Practically, the lead ball forms a third foot to the bar, which is laid down

with two feet resting on the bench and the third on the disc of the mill. The disc is

moistened from time to time with olive oil containing diamond dust, and runs at a speed

of about a mile a minute.  The small particles of diamond become rubbed into its face,

which is of soft cast iron, and thus produce an abrading surface acting continually against

the diamond contained in the lead holder. The keen edges of the dust, aided by the speed,

and the weight of the lead ball, gradually wear away the stone, which is removed for

inspection every few minutes. When the workman considers that the cutting has proceeded

as far as is necessary, the lead is softened, and the gem is released, ready to be again set

in another position. Thus by successive stages the cutting proceeds until the jewel finally

assumes the proper form.

       This diamond factory was extremely successful, and remained in
active operation for several years, until circumstances which have
nothing to do with this story, rendered it desirable for the partnership
to be dissolved, and the works closed.

    I may refer here to April, 1880, when the Freedom of the Company

of Turners was conferred on Sir Henry Bessemer, " in recognition of

his valuable discoveries, which have so largely benefited the iron
industries of the country, and his scientific attainments, which are so

well known and appreciated throughout the world." In the course of

his speech, my father, in expressing his thanks for this distinction,
said :

IUnder the process which   had the honour of inaugurating, we dispense with every

one of the intermediate processes formerly employed. We have no smelting of pig iron, we

have no making of balls, we have no rolling of bars, we have no shearing of bars, we have

no piling up, we have no heating furnaces.

You will readily understand why, with a process so rapid, and so entirely devoid of

the use of expensive fuel, and of all those varied skilled manipulations which were necessary

...at every stage in the old process, the cost of manufacture is so exceedingly small as it is
found to be.  At the time when my invention was introduced into Sheffield the entire

make of steel was 51,000 tons a year; last year we made 830,000 tons of Bessemer steel,

being sixteen times what was before the entire output of the whole produce of the whole

country. It is anticipated that on the Continent of Europe this year's make will reach

in all 3,000,000 tons. The value of these 3,000,000 tons altogether may be taken at
I,10 per ton, or 30,000,000 sterling; and if that metal had been made by the old process
which  have described, it would have been impossible to have brought it into the

market under 50 per ton, or 150,000,000 sterling.
364                                HENRY BESSEMER

     A matter of much importance, not referred to in the Autobiography,

is Sir Henry Bessemer's close connection with the Iron and Steel
Institute, of which he was one of the founders in 1868, and the
President in 1871 to 1873. He only contributed two Papers to the
Institute. The first of these was read in 1886, on "Some Earlier
Forms of Bessemer Converters"; the second was read in 1891, and
is published in the " Transactions " under the title of " The Manufacture
of Continuous Sheets of Malleable Iron or Steel direct from the
Fluid Metal."

      In 1873 Sir Henry Bessemer presented to the Institute a sum

to be invested for the purchase each year of a gold medal, to be

awarded under the following conditions :

       The awards are to be (1) to the inventor or introducer of any important or remarkable
invention, employed in the manufacture of iron or steel ; (2) for a paper read before the
Institute, and having special merit and importance in connection with the iron and steel
manufacture ; (3) for a contribution to the " Journal " of the Institute, being an original
investigation bearing on the iron and steel manufacture, and capable of being productive of

valuable and practical results.  The Council may, in their discretion, award the medal in

any case not coming strictly under the foregoing definition, should they consider that the

iron and steel trades have been, or may be, substantially benefited by the person to whom

such an award is to be made.

      In 1890, my uncle, the late Mr. W. D. Allen, to whom frequent

reference is made in the foregoing pages, was the recipient of
this medal, and on that occasion Sir Henry Bessemer addressed to
Mr. Allen the following letter, which is reproduced here, not only on
account of its intrinsic interest, but because it contains a just appreciation
of Mr. Allen, my father's brother-in-law, and partner during so many

years ;

     There was a Council meeting this morning of the Iron and Steel Institute, and, amongI

other business, we had to decide the question of the award of the Bessemer medal.
Iaddressed the meeting, and said
                                   had made it a rule not to throw any weight into this

question, but preferred that my fellow councilmen should take the initiative, but at the

same time observing that this standing aloof might be carried too far, and a great injustice
I Idone ; and, under these circumstances,
                                   said that felt in duty bound to name a gentleman,

to whom the introduction and the successful carrying out of the Bessemer steel process was
Ivery greatly indebted ; and that
                                   was the more able to bear testimony in his behalf,
Ibecause, although once intimately associated with him in business,
                                                                     had for the last dozen

years ceased to have any pecuniary interest whatever in the works referred to.
                                                        PRESENTATION TO MR. W. D. ALLEN            365

I said that Mr. W. Allen, of the Sheffield Bessemer steel works, assisted me in the
Ivery first experiments
                                             ever made, and became thoroughly initiated in all facts that related

to the process ; that he assisted in the building and laying-out of our Sheffield works, and

had the entire management of the process as well as of the business, and in that capacity

realised almost fabulous profits from an extremely small capital. Further, that in aid of
the introduction and dissemination of the " art and mystery " he had done a great deal, all the

early makers having derived from him that stock of knowledge with which they commenced

their respective businesses ; and further, that Mr. Allen had introduced many important

improvements in the detail of manufacture.

    I also remarked that it had been frequently said that Bessemer steel was very good

for rails, but not for a higher class of goods. Now Mr. Allen had conclusively proved the

contrary of this assertion ; he had never made a rail, but had gone in for the better class

of material now so largely used in the Sheffield manufactures.                           He produced a high class

of Bessemer steel, which was fully appreciated by the Sheffield trade, and he consequently
Iwas able to realise most remunerative prices : in proof of which
                                                                                         might mention the fact

that a few weeks ago Messrs. Bessemer and Co. (which is mainly Mr. Allen and his son)

declared a dividend of 25 per cent, per annum on a capital of 90,000 ; carried                     23,000

forward; wrote off 5,000 depreciation; and spent out of revenue                                    11,000 in new

            Such a result, in the face of the great competition in Bessemer steel
erections.                                                                                         Itake
                                                                                                             is,I
it,
    a                                                                                                                     if a

                                       a
strong proof of the excellence of the material which Mr. Allen has acquired the art

of making.

Mr. Windsor Richards spoke of the valuable information he had received from Mr. Allen,

Mr. Snelus made similar statement, and Mr. Ellis confirmed the fact of your success as

manufacturer of high-grade Bessemer                     the question was then passed, and you were
                                                        a;

                                                                             is
unanimously awarded the Bessemer medal, which                                    to be presented to you at the May

meeting. This award has given me                        great deal of satisfaction                 do not know

you are aware that have been engaged in designing and superintending the execution of
a

   I

                 :I

                                                  a
                                                     a
very handsome diploma, framed and glazed, to be presented to all who have been previously

awarded the medal                                       dozen of these will be sent out to-morrow  It was thought

that the medal itself can be rarely shown, and that this large and beautifully got-up design

might be hung up in                                     library or the principal office of the medallist, where the fact

would show itself to all who came, whereas the medal itself was generally locked up for safety.

           cannot better close this brief reference to my father's long;
connection with the Iron and Steel Institute than by repeating the
resolution of sympathy passed by the Council on the occasion of his
death. "The Council of the Iron and Steel Institute desire to express
their sincere sympathy with the relatives of Sir Henry Bessemer in
their bereavement and, recognising his great services to the Institute
as one of its founders, as its President, and the generous donor of

the Bessemer gold medal, and for thirteen years as trustee of its
funds, deeply deplore his loss."
366                      HENRY BESSEMER

     In connection with the early history of steel rails referred to
Ielsewhere
            found among my father's papers a very interesting letter

from Mr. F. W. Webb, the chief mechanical engineer of the London

and North- Western Railway. This letter is as follows :

                         London and North- Western Railway,
                                                         Locomotive Department, Crewe,
                                                                                         26th April, 1897.

DEAR SIR HENRY,

              Referring to your last communication with reference to steel specimens.

     I enclose you herewith rough hand -sketch showing the size of the piece of wheel;

                                                               I
                                                                                                                      it,
also the length of the old piece of rail with the inscription, which is stamped on

together with two short pieces of bent and twisted rails.          shall be glad to know whether

these will meet your requirements for exhibition.                  Yours faithfully,

                                                                   F. W. WEBB.

Sir Henry Bessemer,
                        165, Denmark Hill, Surrey.

                                                      INSCRIPTION

                                            (21FT. STEEL RAIL LAID DOWN AT CREWE STATION l63, TURNED
                                                                                                                                                                               MILLIONS,
                                            11866.TAKEN UP I87S, ESTIMATED TONNAGE
t
                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                            7
SEGMENT OF WHEEL ,BRIGH  PARTS EDGED THUS:  \GREATEST WEAR OF TABLES O-8S INCH, LOSS Of WEIGHT 2O LBS.
raeos
                                            (PftEeRosjtY)ARD.

                                            FIG. 106

      The sketch to which this letter                          refers has been reproduced in

Fig. 106.                                                      Mr. Webb presented the Iron
      Shortly after Sir Henry's death,
                          THE CITY OP BESSEMER                 367

and Steel Institute with a piece of this rail ; the presentation being
accompanied by the following letter addressed to the Secretary ;

                                                               May 4th, 1898.

DEAR SIR,            I Iwhen was at the last Council meeting,  am sending you to-day,

       IAs promised

by passenger train, a piece of one of the earliest Bessemer steel rails that were put down
Ion this line, and
                    hope you will consider it of sufficient interest to be preserved with the
                                                           IYou will observe that have
other early specimens of Bessemer steel at the Institute.
had the following particulars stamped on the piece of rail : " Bessemer steel rail, laid down

at Crewe Station, 1863, turned 1866, taken up 1875 ; estimated tonnage 72,000,000 ;

greatest wear of tables, 0.85 in. ; loss of weight, 20 Ib. per yard. Presented by the London
Iand North-Western Eailway, per F. W. Webb, April 18, '98."
                                                             shaU be glad if you will

kindly acknowledge receipt on its arrival.

To the Secretary, Iron and Steel Institute.

On the occasion when this letter was read, Mr. E. Riley said that he

had a piece of the first Bessemer rail which was ever rolled ; it was

rolled at Dowlais. The rail broke in rolling. It was made from

Blaenavon pig iron, at the Bessemer steel works at St. Pancras, London,

and was rolled at Dowlais in 1856.

     It was a source of constant pride and gratification to my father

that several towns in the United States were named after him. The

most important of these is the City of Bessemer, in Pennsylvania, in

which are situated the Edgar Thomson steel works, founded in 1870,

acquired by Mr. Carnegie after the death of Mr. Edgar Thomson, and

now forming the most important unit in the gigantic steel trust of
America. This City of Bessemer is situated on the Monongahela River,

a few miles from Pittsburg.                  is another Bessemer, which has
      In the State of Alabama there
                                             It was established in 1886, and
been raised to the dignity of a city.

is situated in the northern part of the State, in the centre of the

southern Bessemer steel industry. The population of this city is

over 6,000.

Bessemer, in the State of Virginia, near Clifton Ford, on the

IChesapeake and Ohio Railway, is also in the southern section of the
Bessemer steel industry.  am unaware to what extent this city has

developed, but a few years since it promised to become a very important

manufacturing town.
368                                HENRY BESSEMER

     A fourth City of Bessemer is in the State of Michigan. This

Iplace also has, believe, developed into considerable prosperity, as it is

situated in the heart of a vast ore-producing district.

     In all there are no fewer than thirteen Bessemers in the United

States ; the following list has been compiled officially from the United
States Census of 1900.

          Town.                    State.              County.            Population   In Iron-
                                                                           in 1900.
                                                                                        Mining
                                                                        U. S. Census.  District 1

Bessemer  Junction ...             Alabama             Jefferson   ...  6,358          Yes
Bessemer  (Station, Pueblo) . . .  Alabama             Jefferson   ...
Bessemer  Junction ...                                 Pueblo           ((8a))         Yes
Bessemer                           Colorado            Pueblo      ...                 Yes
Bessemer  Junction ...                                                  3,911
Bessemer                           Colorado            Gogebic     ...                 Yes
Bessemer  City                     Michigan                              (a)
Bessemer                                               Gogebic     ...    (a)          Yes
Bessemer                           KNM.iGchYigan       Tomkins     ...  1,100          Yes
Bessemer                                               Gaston             a            No
Bessemer                           Pennsylvania . . .                                  No
Bessemer                           Pennsylvania . . .  Allegheny        iWw            No
Bessemer                           Texas ...           Lawrence                        No
                                   Vancouver           Llano                           No
                                                       Botetourt                       Yes
                                   Wyoming             Natrona                         No

      (a) Not separately  returned by the Census of 1900.          of 1890) annexed    to Pueblo
       (b) Bessemer City  (population 3,317 as returned by Census

since 1890.

     My father possessed a special charm of conversation, and an unusual

facility for explaining difficult subjects in the most graphic manner.

Those who enjoyed his friendship will always remember this peculiar gift.

Striking examples of it are to be found in his remarks at various

scientific meetings where he took part in discussions ; and on the rare

occasions when he wrote letters to the newspapers, chiefly to The Times.

I I IAs illustrations of what mean, reproduce here three letters which

think are of much interest. The first of these was published in Hie
"ATimes in January, 1878, under the title
                                                       Billion Dissected."

     SIR,

       It would be curious to know how many of your readers have brought fully

home to their inner consciousness the real significance of that little word "billion"

which we have seen of late so glibly used in your columns.              There are, indeed, few
                             A BILLION DISSECTED                                          369

Intellects that can fairly grasp it and digest it as a whole ; and there are, doubtless,

many thousands who cannot appreciate its true worth, even when reduced to fragments

for more easy assimilation.  Its arithmetical symbol is simple and without much pretension ;

there are no large figures just a modest 1 followed by a dozen cyphers, and that is all.

ILet us briefly take a glance at it as a measure of time, distance, and weight. As a
measure of time,  would take one second as the unit, and carry myself in thought through

the lapse of ages back to the first day of the Year 1 of our era, remembering that in all

those years we have 365 days, and in every day just 86,400 seconds of time. Hence, in

returning in thought back again to this year of grace 1878, one might have supposed that

a billion of seconds had long since elapsed; but this is not so. We have not even passed
one-sixteenth of that number in all these long eventful years, for it takes just 31,687 years,

17 days, 22 hours, 45 minutes, and 5 seconds to constitute a billion of seconds of time.

It is no easy matter to bring under the cognizance of the human eye a billion objects

of any kind. Let us try in imagination to arrange this number for inspection, and for this
Ipurpose
             would select a sovereign as a familiar object. Let us put one on the ground and

pile upon it as many as will reach 20 ft. in height ; then let us place numbers of similar

columns in close contact, forming a straight line, and making a sort of wall 20 ft. high, showing

only the thin edges of the coin. Imagine two such walls running parallel to each other and

forming, as it were, a long street. We must then keep on extending these walls for miles

nay, hundreds of miles, and still we shall be far short of the required number. And it

is not until we have extended our imaginary street to a distance of 2386J miles that we
shall have presented for inspection our one billion of coins.

       Or, in lieu of this arrangement, we may place them flat upon the ground, forming one
continuous line like a long golden chain, with every link in close contact. But to do this we

must pass over land and sea, mountain and valley, desert and plain, crossing the Equator,

and returning around the southern hemisphere through the trackless ocean, retrace our

way again across the Equator, then still on and on, until we again arrive at our starting-

point; and when we have thus passed a golden chain round the huge bulk of the earth, we

shall be but at the beginning of our task. We must drag this imaginary chain no less
Ifthan 763 times round the globe.
                                          we can further imagine all those rows of links laid

closely side by side and every one in contact with its neighbour, we shall have formed a

golden band around the globe just 52 ft. 6 in. wide ; and this will represent our one billion

of coins. Such a chain, if laid in a straight line, would reach a fraction over 18,328,445

miles, the weight of which, if estimated at  oz. each sovereign, would be 6,975,447 tons,

and would require for their transport no less than 2325 ships, each with a full cargo of

3000 tons. Even then there would be a residue of 447 tons, representing 64,081,920

sovereigns.

       For a measure of height let us take a much smaller unit as our measuring rod. The thin
sheets of paper on which these lines are printed, if laid out flat and firmly pressed together

as in a well-bound book, would represent a measure of about l-333rd of an inch in thickness.

Let us see how high a dense pile formed by a billion of these thin paper leaves would

reach. We must, in imagination, pile them vertically upward, by degrees reaching to the

height of our tallest spires; and passing these, the pile must still grow higher, topping the

Alps and Andes and the highest peaks of the Himalayas, and shooting up from thence

through the fleecy clouds,   pass beyond  the confines  of our attenuated  atmosphere, and leap

                                                                                        SB
370                             HENRY BESSEMER

up into the blue ether with which the universe is filled, standing proudly up far beyond

the reach of all terrestrial things ; still pile on your thousands and millions of thin leaves,

for we are only beginning to rear the mighty mass. Add millions on millions of sheets,

and thousands of miles on these, and still the number will lack its due amount.  Let

us pause to look at the neat ploughed edges of the book before us. See how closely
lie those thin flakes of paper, how many there are in the mere width of a span, and

then turn our eyes in imagination upwards to our mighty column of accumulated sheets.

It now contains its appointed number, and our one billion of sheets of The Times, super-

imposed upon each other and pressed into a compact mass, has reached an altitude of

47,348 miles!
     IThose who have taken the trouble to follow me thus far will,
                                                                    think, agree with

me that a billion is a fearful thing, and that few can appreciate its real value. As for

quadrillions and trillions, they are simply words : mere words wholly incapable of adequately

impressing themselves on the human intellect.  I remain, your obedient servant,

Denmark Hill, January 3, 1878.                                HENRY BESSEMER.

       The second was also a letter that appeared in The Times on
April the 18th, 1882, and was called "Easter and the Coal Question."

     SIR,

           The Easter holidays have come round once more, and our boys, with their bright,
beaming faces, full of mirth and cheerfulness, have been flocking home from school to

dear old smoky London, all unmindful of its murky atmosphere, and intent only on the
Imany wondrous sights they hope to see.
Iwhich                                   had just filled some loose sheets with calculations

           had been making, with a view to afford some amusement to my grandsons on
Itheir return, when, looking up from my task,
                                               noticed a stream of small, bright objects

flitting by. The sharp east wind was breaking up the large seed - pods on the great
Occidental plane tree near my study window, and its taper seeds, with their beautiful little
gold-coloured parachutes, were being wafted far away, falling into little chinks and unknown

out-of-the-way places. Some, resting on the bare earth, may perchance be seized by some
blind worm, and made to close the door of its lowly habitation, and, germinating there,
may, in after-years, when all who now live have passed away, spread its huge arms, and
afford a grateful shelter to those who are to come after us. Just so the broad sheet

you daily publish conveys to every civilised part of the world the thoughts and sentiments
of those who lead and form public opinion, while it never fails to give the latest
expression of science, literature, and art. Much of all this may, like the flying plane tree
seeds, fall on unproductive soil ; yet who shall say in that ceaseless stream of intelligence

how many a sympathetic chord of the human heart may be touched, or how many thoughts

and sentiments so imbibed may germinate, and, gaining strength with years, may change

the whole current of a life, and form the statesman, the scientist, or the man of letters ?
IThus musing, it occurred to me that the statistical results
                                                              had arrived at might, perhaps,

interest some other boys than those for whom they were intended, and if thought worthy

of a place in The Times might inspire a more than passing interest in an otherwise most

uninviting subject.
                   THE ANNUAL OUTPUT OF COAL                                        371

Every one of late must have had his thoughts more or less turned to the prevention

of smoke in large cities, and also to the exhibition of the electric light now in progress
at the Crystal Palace, for every form and modification of which we are still dependent
on that vast storehouse of Nature our beds of coal, the economic use of which is of

such vast importance to our national progress, and to the maintenance and spread of

civilisation throughout the world, that no one can afford to remain indifferent to it. It

is only when the mind can fairly grasp the magnitude of our coal consumption that the

importance of its economy can be fully realised.  The statistics of the coal trade show

that during the year 1881 the quantity of coal raised in Great Britain was no less than

154,184,300 tons.

When the eye passes over these nine figures it does not leave on the mind a very

vivid picture of the reality it does not say much for the twelve months of incessant toil
Iof the 495,000 men who are employed in this vast industry; hence
                                                                   have endeavoured

in a pictorial form to convey to the mind's eye of my young friends something like the
true meaning of those figures; for mere magnitude to the youthful mind has always an

absorbing interest, and the gigantic works of the ancients fortunately supply us with a ready
means of comparison with our own. Let us take as an example the great pyramid of Gizeh,
a work of human labour which has excited the admiration of the world for thousands of

years. Though in itself inaccessible to my young friends, we fortunately have its base
clearly marked out in the metropolis.

       When Inigo Jones laid out the plans of Lincoln's Inn Fields he placed the houses
on opposite sides of the square just as far from each other as to enclose a space between
them of precisely the same dimensions as the base of the great pyramid. Measuring up to
the front walls of the houses this space is just equal to 11 acres and 4 poles. Now, if my
young friends will imagine St. Paul's Cathedral to be placed in the centre of this square
space, and having a flagstaff of 95 ft. in height standing up above the top of the cross, we
shall have attained an altitude of 499 ft., which is precisely equal to that of the great pyramid.
Further, let us imagine that four ropes are made to extend from the top of this flagstaff,
each one terminating at one of the four corners of the square and touching the front walls
of the houses. We shall then have a perfect outline of the pyramid of exactly the same

size as the original. The whole space enclosed within these diagonal ropes is equal to

79,881,417 cubic feet, and if occupied by one solid mass of coal it would weigh 2,781,581

tons a mass less than l-55th part of the coal raised last year in Great Britain.    In fact,

the coal trade could supply such a mass as this every week, and at the end of the year

have more than nine millions of tons to spare.

Higher up the Nile Thebes presents us with another example of what may be

accomplished by human labour. The great temple of Rameses at Karnak, with its hundred

columns of 12 ft. in diameter, and over 100 ft. in height, cannot fail to deeply impress the

imagination of all who, in their mind's eye, can realise this magnificent colonnade. It may

be interesting to ascertain what size of column and what extent of colonnade we could

construct with the coal we laboriously sculpture from its solid bed in every year.

Let us imagine a plain cylindrical column of 50 ft. in diameter, and of 500 ft. in

height, our one year's production of coal would suffice to make no less than 4511 of these

gigantic columns, which, if placed only at their own diameter apart, would form a colonnade
which would extend in a straight line to a distance of no less than 85 miles and 750 yards
372  HENRY BESSEMER

    in fact, we dig in every working day throughout the year a little more than enough to

form fourteen of these tall and massive columns, which, if placed upon each other, would

reach an altitude of 7,000 ft.

       But there is yet another great work of antiquity which our boys will not fail to
remember as offering itself for comparison ; they have all heard of the Great Wall of China,
which was erected more than 2,000 years ago to exclude the Tartars from the Chinese Empire.
This great wall extends to a distance of 1,400 miles, and is 20 ft. in height, and 24 ft.
in thickness, and hence contains no less than 3,548,160,000 cubic feet of solid matter.

Now, our last year's production of coal was 4,427,586,820 cubic feet, and is sufficient in

bulk to build a wall round London of 200 miles in length, 100 ft. high, and 41 ft. 11 in.
in thickness; a mass not only equal to the whole cubic contents of the Great "Wall of
China, but sufficient to add another 346 miles to its length.

       These imaginary coal structures can scarcely fail to impress the mind of youth with
the enormous consumption of coal ; and when they are told that in many of its applications
the useful effect obtained is not one-fifth of its theoretic capabilities, they will be enabled
to form some idea of the vast importance of the economic problem which calls so loudly
for solution. They must not, however, fall into the too-common error of supposing that
the electric light by superseding gas is to do away with the use of coal in the production
of light, or that dynamo-electric machines will largely [replace the steam engine and boiler.

      A visit to the Crystal Palace, which has for the time being become a great school
of applied science, will set them right on this point. There they will find that coal, our
willing slave, still lends its powerful aid in propelling those machines by which we
manufacture artificial lightning ; and there also, in its mere infancy, they will see something

of the colossal power that is destined to effect such vast changes, and to carry forward by
another grand leap the ever-increasing dominion of mind over matter.

       Let every boy now home from school be taken to see this grand exhibition before
it closes, and while still on the tablets of the brain there are left some few blank pages,
let these marvels of applied science inscribe an indelible record, which, perchance, in after
years, may profitably be drawn upon and improved; and in due course they may find their
own names inscribed among those who, following the paths of science, have become the
benefactors of mankind.

       Although coal is still our great agent in the production of motive power, it must
not be forgotten that Sir William Thomson has clearly shown that by the use of

dynamo-electric machines, worked by the Falls of Niagara, motive power could be generated
to an almost unlimited extent, and that no less than 26,250 horse-power so obtained could

\be conveyed to a distance of 300 miles by means of a single copper wire of in. in diameter,

with a loss in transmission of not more than 20 per cent., and hence delivering at the
opposite end of the wire 21,000 horse-power.*

       What a magnificent vista of legitimate mercantile enterprise this simple fact opens up

      * Since the above was written, experiments on a large scale have shown that the loss
of power in transmission is much greater than stated, and also that the size of the copper
wire was very much underestimated, but these facts do not materially lessen the advantages
of this mode of supplying power and light to London direct from the coalfield. H. B.
                                                                                                                           373

for our own country ! Why should we not at once connect London with one of our

nearest coalfields by means of a copper rod of 1 in. in diameter and capable of transmitting

84,000 horse-power to London, and thus practically bring up the coal by wire instead

of by rail?

Let us now see what is the equivalent in coal of this amount of motive power.

Assuming that each horse-power can be generated by the consumption of 3 Ib. of coal per

hour, and that the engines work six and a-half days per week, we should require an annual

consumption of coal equal to 1,012,600 tons to produce such a result.

Now all this coal would in the case assumed be burned at the pit's mouth, at a cost

of 6s. per ton for large and 2s. per ton for small coal that                                      at less than one-fourth the
                                            a
                                                                                a

                                                                                     1
                                                                                             is,
cost of coal in London. This would immensely reduce the cost of the electric light, and

of the motive power now used in London for such                                   vast variety of purposes, and at the

same time save us from the enormous volumes of smoke and foul gases which this million

of tons of coal would make    if if  burned in our midst. A in. diameter copper rod would cost

about 5331. per mile, and          laid to  colliery 120 miles away, the interest at                                   per cent,
                                                                                                                   5

                                                                                                                       it
on its first cost would be less than Id. per ton on the coal practically conveyed by direct

into the house of the consumer.

                                            I                                     am, Sir, your obedient servant,

                                                                                                  HENRY BESSEMER.

Denmark Hill, April 17, 1882.

The third reprint             is     from the Engineering Review, of July the 20th,
                         "Aentitled
1894, and     is                    a       Brief Statistical Sketch of the Bessemer

                        :
Steel Industry Past and Present."

     It   is  an old man's privilege to look back upon the past and compare                                        it  with the

present.      It no less his privilege to do so when his thoughts turn to those subjectsis

in which he himself has taken more or less conspicuous part.                                      do not know, therefore,
                                                                                  a
that need make any apology for laying before you some thoughts that have been passing
I                                                                                        I

through my mind on looking back upon the progress that has been made in the metallurgical

world, and especially in retrospect of the rapid advances made by the process to which my
                           a

name was given thirty-seven years ago.                                            century, we shall find Sheffield

     If we go back to the year 1861, just one-third of

by far the largest producer of steel in the world, the greater portion of her annual make

of 51,000 tons, realising from 50 to 60 per ton.*                                                                  as the raw
      For this purpose the costly bar-iron of Sweden was chiefly employed

material, costing from 15 to 20 per ton                                           the conversion of this expensive iron into
          is
                         a                                                        about two days and nights for the gradual

                                                      a
                                                                           is, ;
crude steel occupied about ten days that

heating of the furnace, in which the cold iron bars had been carefully packed in large

stone boxes with         layer of charcoal powder between each bar^ in these boxes the metal

was retained for six days at white heat, two days more being required to cool down the

* It          stated in the Jurors' Report to the Commissioners of the International Exhibition

of 1851, that the production of steel in Sheffield was at that period 51,000 tons annually.
374                                     HENRY BESSEMER

furnace and get out the converted bars. The steel so produced was broken into small

pieces and melted in crucibles holding not more than 40 or 50 Ib. each, and consuming

from 2 to 3 tons of expensive oven coke for each ton of steel so melted. This steel was

excellently adapted for the manufacture of knives, and for all other cutting instruments, but

its hard and brittle character, as well as its excessively high price, absolutely precluded its

use for the thousands of purposes to which steel is now universally applied.

    IIt was under such conditions of the steel trade that, thirty-three years ago, endeavoured

to introduce an entirely novel system of manufacture          so novel, in fact, and so antagonistic
Ito the preconceived notions of practical men, that
Istolid incredulity and distrust. Perhaps                     was met on all sides with the most

                                           ought to make some allowance for this feeling,
Ifor proposed to use as my raw material crude pig-iron costing 3 per ton, instead of the
Ihighly purified Swedish bar-iron then used, costing from 15 to 20 per ton.
                                                                                    proposed

also to employ no fuel whatever in the converting process, which, in my case, occupied only

twenty -five to thirty minutes, instead of the ten days and nights required by the process
Ithen in use; and
                   further proposed to make from 5 to tons of steel at a single operation,

instead of the small separate batches of 40 or 50 Ibs., in which all the Sheffield cast steel

Iwas at that time made. What, however, appeared still more incredible was the fact that

proposed to make steel bars at 5 or 6 per ton, instead of 50 or ,60 the then ruling

prices of the trade. One and all of these propositions have long since become well-established

commercial facts, and Bessemer cast-steel is now produced without resorting to any one of

the expensive and laborious processes practised in making Swedish bar-iron, while the old

Sheffield process of converting wrought-iron bars into crude or blister-steel, by ten days'

exposure, at a very high temperature, to the action of carbon, is rendered unnecessary. The

slow and expensive process of melting 40 or 50 Ibs. of steel in separate crucibles is also

dispensed with ; and in lieu of all these combined processes, from 5 to 10 tons of crude

or cast-iron, worth only 3 per ton, is converted into Bessemer cast-steel in thirty minutes,

wholly without skilled manipulation, or the employment of fuel; and while still retaining

its initial heat, can be at once rolled into railway bars or other required forms.

     So great was the departure of my invention from all the preconceived notions and

practice of the trade, that no steel manufacturer could be induced to adopt         in fact
                                        I
                                                               a
                                                                         it
                                                                         I
                                                                                                               it,
                                                                                                                                          a
the whole steel and iron trade of the kingdom had declared    to be the mere dream of

wild enthusiast and                     was only by building  steelworks of my own in the town of
              I
Sheffield, and underselling other manufacturers in the open market, that was able at last;
                                     a
                                  it
to overcome prejudice and the utter disbelief in the practicability of my invention. But as

soon as my works were completed, and       was enabled to throw my cheap steel upon the

market, there came complete panic in the trade, followed by the adoption of my invention

at two of the largest works in Sheffield. As an example of the irresistible competition thus

established,  may refer to the manufacture of steel railway-wheel tyres, which were at that

time selling at 60 per ton. These tyres we put upon the market at 50, but the extent

to which even that price was capable of reduction will be readily understood from the fact

that tyres made at the present date, by the same process, and by the identical machinery

then actually employed, are now sold at    per ton with profit. No sooner were these
                                           8
                                                                         a

                                                                                                       it
facts rendered indisputable by the steady commercial working of my process, than                           began

rapidly to spread throughout England, and thence to every State in Europe. The advantages

which my system offered soon attracted the attention of our energetic brethren in the United
                   THE WORLD'S PRODUCTION OP BESSEMER STEEL                                                          375

States, where it advanced by leaps and bounds, and where it has since culminated, in the

year 1892, in the production of no less than 4,160,072 tons, or about eighty times the whole
production of Sheffield in 1851.*

The visit of the Iron and Steel Institute to America in 1890 was quite a revelation. The

development of the iron and steel trade of that country, and the enormous extension of their

railroad system, has produced economic changes of vast importance both to them and to us,

and demands the serious consideration of all thinking men.

We have it on the undoubted authority of Mr. Abram Hewitt that the annual

production of steel by the acid and basic treatment of pig-iron in the Bessemer converter

in both Europe and America amounted in 1892 to no less than 10,500,000 tons, about

two-fifths only of which was made into rails. Now, taking the average price of rails in 1891

and 1892 in England at 4 10s. per ton, and in the United States and on the Continent

of Europe at 5 10s., and adding to this the much higher prices obtained for tyres, axles,

cranks, sheets, wire-rods, boiler-plates, forgings, castings, &c., we may fairly assume that the

average selling price of the whole of this steel would be 8 per ton, taking one article

with another, hence yielding a net amount of 84 millions sterling.                                  impress  themselves

     It is a curious fact that high numbers like these do not adequately

on the minds of many people of undoubted intelligence, and it is not until such figures

are broken up as it were, and presented pictorially to the mind's eye, that they are fully

a                                                                             instead of looking at the eight figures which represent
                                                                           a

                                                            if,
understood and appreciated. Thus,

the number of tons, we could have that quantity of steel bodily before us, we should form

very different estimate of its importance.                                    Let us use the mind's eye to assist us, and

imagine standing erect before us                                            plain round column or tower of solid steel 20 feet in

diameter and 100 feet high; this, no doubt, would impress us as very large and heavy
                                                                              is

                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                                           a if
mass, and but few persons would be prepared at first to accept the simple fact that the

production of Bessemer steel in 1892 would make 1,671 such columns and leave remainder

of 5,535 tons. Yet such                the fact. These tall columns would form goodly row, and,
   6
                             a
                              is

                                                   ;
placed side by side in straight line, and in contact with each other, would extend to

distance of miles and 580 yards indeed there                                  on an average 5J such columns produced

on every working day in the year, bringing up each day's production of steel to 33,546

tons, as compared with Sheffield's former production of 51,000 tons annually.

We may put this in another way, and imagine                                      plain cylindrical solid column of 100
                                                                                 a
                                                                                                 a
feet in diameter,  good idea of which may be formed by glance at some of the very
                a
                           a

                                    a
large gasometers in the Metropolis then further imagine this gasometer, not as thin iron
                                       ;                                                                     a
                                             a                                                                    6
shell, but as ponderous solid mass rising before you to an altitude of 6,684 feet inches,

or nearly one mile and third in height. Such huge solid mass would be exactly equal
                                                                              a

to one year's make of Bessemer steel. But even in this form we must draw powerfully on

the imagination for but few persons can in their mind's eye fully realise huge solid mass
                ;                                                                                   a

of such heavy matter rising to more than sixteen and a-half times the height of the cross

of St. Paul's.

A  graphic representation of such column of steel, standing between St. Paul's Cathedral

       * We learn from the Bulletin of the American Iron and Steel Association that the
output of Bessemer Steel Ingots in the United States in the year 1892 was the largest
ever reported, and amounted to not less than 4,160,072 tons.
376  HENRY BESSEMER

                   SOLID STEEL COLUMN

                       6684 feet 6inches in height
                                       arid

                         100 fal in duuntiler

                fttprtsenlwy the JVvrMs production
                                     of

                      BESSEMER-STEEL
                           in thevearl892.

                         accurately to scale of
                         linch lo WOO Kit

                100fat diameter.  fTHE MONUMENT
                                    to fre p London

     FIG. 107.
                               THE WORLD'S PRODUCTION OF BESSEMER STEEL                                377

and the Monument erected to commemorate the Great Fire of London, is shown accurately

to scale (see Fig. 107), and will aid the mind in more fully realising the magnitude of the

ponderous masses annually produced, every pound of which, during the brief period of its

conversion into steel, has been raised to such an excessively high temperature as to

become as brilliantly incandescent as the poles of the electric arc lamp.

     It is this new material, so much stronger and tougher than common iron, that now

builds our ships of war and our mercantile marine. Steel forms their boilers, their propeller-

shafts, their hulls, their masts and spars, their standing rigging, their cable chains and

anchors, and also their guns and armour-plating.

    This new material has covered with a network of steel rails the surface of every

country in Europe, and in America alone there are no less than 175,000 miles of Bessemer

steel rails, binding together its widely-scattered cities, and bringing them within easy com-

mercial contact with each other. Over these long stretches of smooth steel road there

ceaselessly run hundreds of thousands of steel wheel-tyres, impelled by hundreds of locomotive

engines, which owe their power and endurance to the same ubiquitous material, the great

strength and elasticity of which, as compared with common iron, renders it so especially

suitable for the construction of our bridges and viaducts, our steam boilers, and our machinery

Iof every description, while its great resistance to wear and abrasion gives it a durability
vastly superior to iron. As an example,             may state that every steel rail now in use will

bear at least six times the amount of traffic to pass over it that would suffice to wear out

an iron rail. This question of durability is one of vast importance, for it has enabled

companies to construct lines in localities where the rapid wearing out of iron rails would not

profitably permit of their construction. The increased durability of steel will be better

realised when we consider that the 175,000 miles of steel railroads now existing in America

would have had to be broken up and laid with new rails six times                    the rails had been
                                                       it
                                                                             a (if
made of iron) during the period that the steel rails will last in                   safe and workable

condition.

    But to descend from large things to smaller ones,  may be interesting to pass from

the almost unrealisable column of solid steel representing the world's yearly production to

the average quantity made in every one of the 24 hours comprised in the 313 working

days of the year, -and thus bring our mass more in accord with some of the tall columns

in this metropolis, which are, say, or feet in diameter, and reach 100 feet or more in

altitude. It must be remembered that the process of converting crude iron into steel goes on
                               8
ceaselessly in the converter for the whole twenty-four hours of each day, so that our one7

hour's production              only one twenty-fourth part of single day's work buta all the steel
    a                                            8  a
                           is                                                a

                                                                                               ;

                                                                                      if
                                                                                                   it
produced in the Bessemer converter in this short interval of time were collected,                      would

form solid cylindrical mass of feet in diameter, and 139 feet in height, thus overtopping

the Duke of York's column and the Nelson Monument. What noble portico would twenty-

four such columns make, the work of single day, but yet large enough to dwarf the grand

old ruins of Karnak or Thebes.      this            matter in another form,  in order to bring
                                    steel           ingot of one ton weight    as nearly as possible
     It may be interesting to put                      a
vividly home to the imagination. A                                               is

five cubic feet of solid matter. Let us now imagine                                                       it
                                                       solid square ingot of steel, having

aa  base measuring 50 feet by 50 feet, and standing, say, 400 feet high. This would make

    square tower of solid steel, much larger than the clock-tower of the Houses of Parliament

                                                                                                    3o
378                                  HENRY BESSEMER

(which is precisely 40 feet square, and about half as high as this imaginary square tower) \ in
fact, such a tower would only be about four feet below the top of the cross of St. Paul's

Cathedral. This tower would contain precisely 1,000,000 cubic feet, and would weigh just

200,000 tons. Now, the Thames Embankment from Westminster Bridge to Blackfriars

Bridge, measured down the centre of the roadway, is one mile and a-quarter and a few

yards. Let us suppose one of these gigantic towers to stand opposite the Clock Tower, and

in a line with the roadway over Westminster Bridge, and a similar one erected at the other

end of the Embankment in a line with the roadway passing over Blackfriars Bridge. Let

us further imagine fifty other precisely similar towers placed equi-distant between them, thus

leaving a space of only 27 yards between each tower. This row of gigantic towers would

represent 10,400,000 tons, or just 100,000 tons less than one year's production of Bessemer

steel, each of the fifty-two towers being 1,923 tons less than the average weekly production.

     We might think of many other object lessons that would be likely to convey to the

mind's eye a vivid and realistic picture of the enormous bulk of matter represented by

10,500,000 tons of steel. Let us select one other illustration. Imagine a straight wall

100 miles in length,* 5 feet in thickness, and 20 feet in height. Such a wall would stand

on 60 acres of land. But suppose that this wall, like a gigantic armour-plate, was formed

into a circle, and used to surround London ; the enclosure so made would extend to Watford

on the north side, to Croydon on the south, to Woolwich on the east, and to Eichmond

on the west. It would, in point of fact, form a circular enclosure of 31 miles in diameter,

and would embrace an area of 795 square miles. This great wall of London would just

be equal to a single year's production of Bessemer steel.

    I have thought it would be interesting to give these illustrations of the enormous

mass of Bessemer steel that is now annually produced, because its magnitude is more easily

conveyed to the mind by such object lessons than in any other way, and it has long been

I Ia hobby of mine to convey an idea of large numbers by such illustrations. Some of my
old friends will,  doubt not, remember that in 1878 published a letter in the Times
"A Ientitled
           Billion Dissected," in which broke up the elements of that measure of numbers
Iin the same way; and in 1882
Ifoutput.                            dealt, in the Times, in a similar manner with our coal

           this fresh illustration, which has naturally exceptional interest to myself, should

bring home to you an idea of the magnitude of modern industrial  operations,  in respect

Iof a material that bears my name, shall be much gratified.

     As a commercial question it is impossible to form even an approximately correct idea

of the value of this material when manufactured into the almost endless variety of useful

articles into which it is now made.
     IAs a single instance,
                             may refer to the manufacture  of steel nails.  It is an important

and well-known fact that a steel nail can be driven into dry hard wood without boring

a hole for it. This property of steel nails results in an immense saving of labour, and

Iin the United States, where so many houses are built of wood, it has proved of considerable
value.     find from reliable statistics furnished by nail manufacturers, that in 1892 no

less than 171,200 tons of unforged nails, and 139,900 tons of steel- wire nails were made

Iin America alone. Medium-sized nails run from 80,000 to 120,000 to the ton, and have

                   * Or more accurately 99 miles and 2,280 feet in length.
          THE WORLD'S PRODUCTION OF BESSEMER STEEL                               379

before me some beautifully-formed carpet nails, with      large flat  heads, of which a single
                                                          Exhibition
ton of steel will make 3,870,000.                                     Iof 1862,  exhibited the

     It is an interesting fact that at the International

first steel nails that were ever made. Every form and pattern of nail was shown, large

spikes, 6 inches long, weighing only 10 to the pound, or 22,400 to the ton, down to the

minute tacks used by upholsterers, and known as gymp tacks, so small that one ton of

steel will make more than 14 millions of them.                        passed heedlessly

    I well remember how many thousands of people at the Exhibition

by these germs of a new and important industry, apparently without the remotest idea of

the future universal employment of steel nails in lieu of iron ones.

Those who have passed through Wolverhampton and the "Black Country" a dozen

years ago, must have seen the hundreds of young girls sacrificing all the feminine hopes and

aspirations of their young lives, each one toiling from dewy morn to dusky eve, in smoky,

grimy smithies, with a pair of iron tongs, holding the red-hot nail in one hand, while with
the other she showered upon it blows from the uplifted hammer in such rapid succession as

to maintain the incandescence of the iron she was shaping, amid the ceaseless din of her

fellow-workers, who, with grimy faces and horny hands, were reeking in the heat and foul

air of the nailers' den.

Time in this, as in so many other things, has wrought its wonted change, for to-day the

inexorable power of steam, acting on unconscious matter which suffers from neither heat,

fatigue, nor moral degradation, now yields from a single machine from 50 to 100 nails per

minute, at less cost and of better quality than were ever wrung from human sinews and
female degradation. The extent of the change will be better appreciated when it is known

I Ithat the annual value of unforged steel nails now manufactured exceeds ten millions sterling ;

and have often felt that if in my whole life had done no other useful thing than the

introduction of unforged steel nails, this one invention would have been a legitimate source

of self-congratulation and thankfulness, in so far as it has successfully wiped out so much

of this degrading species of slavery from the list of female-employing industries in this

country.

The great financier who is constantly dealing with the realised values of many millions
Iwould have a very keen appreciation of what 84,000,000 really means, yet
                                                                                 doubt if even

the Chancellor of the Exchequer could off-hand give anything like the correct dimensions

Itof a mass of standard gold of that value.  can, however, be easily ascertained with accuracy.

Since fifty-seven sovereigns weigh just 1 Ib. avoirdupois, the weight of 84,000,000 sovereigns

would be 657 tons 17 cwt. 3 qrs. and 16 Ibs. ; and as the specific gravity of standard gold coin

is 17.167, we should have a mass equal to 1374.70 cubic feet, from which we could make

a plain cylindrical column of solid gold 5 feet in diameter and 109 feet 5 inches in height,

Ias a representative of the commercial value of the larger column of steel which have referred

to. It is an interesting fact that the statistics published by the Annales des Mines for 1893*

shows that it would take more than three years' production of all the gold mines in the

world to pay in gold for one year's production of Bessemer steel.

      * Taken from a paragraph in the Times, showing the weight in tons and value in
pounds sterling of the world's production of gold in 1893.
380                       HENRY BESSEMER

     In June, 1897, my mother died, and her loss was a blow from

which my father never recovered ; their happy union had lasted for

more than sixty years and he did not long survive her ; his own death

occurred on the 15th March, 1898.

     In the earlier pages of his Autobiography, Sir Henry Bessemer

wrote not a little about his father, but the glimpses which he gives us

of the elder Bessemer cause regret that he did not say a great deal

more ; it is true that the interesting part of his career appears to

have ended when, as quite a young man, he fled from Paris during

the stormy days of the Revolution, leaving behind him almost all the

considerable means he had accumulated during his residence in France.

It was during the unsettled period before the Revolution that he had

made a name and a distinguished position in the French Academy of

Sciences.  My father makes a reference to a copying and engraving

machine invented by the elder Bessemer, which was largely used in

the Paris Mint, for reproducing in metal, artists' designs modelled in

Iwax, either in cameo or intaglio. In the Autobiography of James
Nasmyth, to which         have already referred, there is an interesting
notice of one of these machines. It had been sent from Paris to the

London Mint years after my grandfather had returned to this country,

and Nasmyth, speaking of it in the highest terms, relates how it was

sent from the Mint, in 1830, to Messrs. Maudslay's, for .repair, and

the work of its repair was entrusted to him. During the prosperous

period of my grandfather's life in France, miniatures of himself and

of my grandmother were painted by an artist famous at the time, and

these portraits were among the objects he saved in his flight from
IParis.
           have been able to reproduce them here (see Plate L.), and
I think that the portraits of the founders of the Bessemer family will

not be without interest.

     PRINTED AT THE BEDFORD PRESS, 2O AND 21, BEDFORDBURY, STRAND, LONDON, W.C.
PLATE L
    14 DAY L

TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED

This bookLOAN DEPT.
or on the  is due on the last date stamped below,
Renewals   date   to which         renewed. Renewals only-
Renewed    may    Tel. No.         464d2a-y3s40p5rior to date due.
                  be made
           books are subject to immediate recall.

V*# t

   subject to re

                  AUG16 19751

                        , CIR. AUG 8 '75

                            MAR 2       General Library
  LD21A-40m-8,'71                  University of California
(P6572slO)476-A-32
                                               Berkeley

