GEORGE DOUGLAS
                  EIGHTH

DUKE OF ARGYLL

                               K.G., K.T.

                 (i 823-- 1900)

          AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND MEMOIRS

                                                       EDITED BY

    THE DOWAGER DUCHESS OF ARGYLL

WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS                                  to

                  IN TWO VOLUMES

                               I.

JOHN                    LONDON              W.

      MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET,

                                      1906



                 PKEFACE

The Autobiography of the Duke of Argyll was begun
in the year 1897, but, unhappily, it was left unfinished.
The time that had been devoted to it meant to the
writer some pleasant hours, and he was working at it

in his leisure moments to the very end. Life had been
to him so spacious, and all Nature so rich in interest
and in beauty, that he had great pleasure in that form
of literary art in which memory was invoked to bring
back from the storehouse of the past all that had
especially impressed him --matters of high consequence
to great States, talks with famous men long since
dead, how such a bird flew or dived on such a day,
how some new truth was welcomed, or some vital
belief was again confirmed. There was no bitterness
in retrospect to one who could look back as fearlessly
as he could on a long career of public service, of
private duty, and of literary work; and set it down,
having nothing equivocal to explain away, no change
to justify or extenuate, no pronouncement of principle
to retract. The completion of the work was left by
the Duke in the hands of his wife, at whose earnest

                                                                           V

vi PREFACE

desire the Autobiography was undertaken, and who

knew his thoughts and wishes concerning it. In

taking up the broken thread of the narrative, the
design has been to continue the history of his life,
as far as possible, in the Duke's own words, giving his
thoughts and opinions through the medium of letters
to friends, and quotations from his speeches and

writings.

  The Editor owes a debt of gratitude to all who have
most kindly rendered important assistance in the
carrying out of the work, by searching for letters from
the Duke, often a laborious task when they were not
of recent date, and especially when it so happened
that these letters were amongst the still untouched

papers of those who are gone. Permission has been

kindly granted in many cases for the use and publi
cation of valuable correspondence, and the kind and
helpful sympathy shown in connection with the
responsible work of editing these volumes has been

deeply felt and appreciated.
   Her Majesty Queen Victoria graciously granted

permission to the Duke to publish in this work some
of her letters, and those of the Prince Consort.

   To the Earl of Mayo grateful thanks are due for
his kindness in lending the correspondence of the
Duke with the late Lord Mayo, who was Viceroy of
India during a portion of the time when the Duke
held the office of Secretary of State for India. The

                                         PREFACE

late Earl of Northbrook, who succeeded Lord Mayo
as Viceroy, also most kindly placed his correspondence
with the Duke at the disposal of the Editor.

   Grateful acknowledgment is due to the Duke of
Devonshire ; the Marquis of Salisbury ; Mr. Henry
Gladstone, with regard to the extensive correspondence
with his father ; Viscount Peel ; Lord Tennyson ;
the Hon. Rollo Russell ; Lord Stanmore ; the Mar
chioness of Dufferin and Ava ; Countess Granville ;
Lady Lilford ; Miss Palgrave ; the Earl of Halsbury ;
Earl Spencer; Mr. Bernard Mallet; the Hon. Evelyn
Ashley; Mr. Charles Francis Adams; Lord Avebury;
the Earl of Selborne; the Right Hon. Joseph
Chamberlain ; Lord Playfair ; Mr. John Bright ; Mr.
Cree; Mr. Bosworth Smith; Professor Mackintosh;
Professor Knight; Professor Butcher; Mr. Foreman;
Sir Arthur Mitchell ; the Archbishop of Canterbury ;

the Bishop of Ripon ; Canon MacColl ; the Very
Rev. Donald Macleod ; Sir Edmond Verney ; the Rev.

J. Howson ; Herr Prelat von Schmidt ; and to Lady

Vernon Harcourt, for permission to publish the letters
of her father, Mr. Motley.

   With regard to scientific papers, special thanks are
due to Mr. Fletcher, head of the mineralogical depart
ment of the British Museum ; Sir George Darwin ;
Sir Leonard Lyell ; Lord Kelvin ; Sir John Murray ;
Mr. Harvie Brown ; Lady Flower ; Mrs. Tyndall ;
Mrs. Max Miiller ; to Mrs. Owen, in connection with

viii PREFACE

the letters of Sir Richard Owen ; and to the trustees
of Mr. Herbert Spencer.

   Only deep regret can be felt for the irreparable loss
entailed by the Autobiography having been left un
finished ; but the pages which follow may not be wholly
unworthy of his memory, if they have been made to
show even a vague image of that intrepid and mag
nanimous spirit which remains so clear and so living
to those who knew him.

                                                         INA ARGYLL.

      CONTENTS TO VOL. I

CHAPTER           ----                                 PAGE
                                                             1
    I. PARENTAGE
                                                         18
n. JOHN, FIFTH DUKE, AND JOHN, SEVENTH DUKE OF           46
                                                         63
      ARGYLL - - - - - -                                 88

HI. AEDENCAPLE - - - -                                 115
                                                       148
TV. MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS - - -                   163
                                                       188
V. RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES --VISITS TO ENGLAND      -
                                                       223
VI. ROSNEATH --SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS --MY FATHER'S
                                                       238
      SUCCESSION TO THE DUKEDOM --SKERRYVORE
                                                       263
      LIGHTHOUSE  -         -   -       -        -     282

VH. ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE   -       -        -     293

Vm. CHURCH OF SCOTLAND      -   -       -        -

IX. FOREIGN TRAVEL - - - - -

X. LIFE IN KINTYRE-- EARLY INTEREST IN ECONOMIC
        QUESTIONS -- VISIT TO MULL --LECTURES AT EDIN
        BURGH--VISIT TO TRENTHAM -

XI. VOYAGE TO GREECE --WINTER IN ROME --RETURN

 -----TO ENGLAND BY THE RHINE --VISIT TO FIELD OF
      WATERLOO
XH. MARRIAGE --ROSNEATH --POTATO FAMINE AND ABO
      LITION OF CORN LAWS--FORMATION OF PEELITE

      PARTY --RISE OF DISRAELI  -

XIH.  ECONOMIC PROBLEMS AFFECTING ARGYLL PRO
XIV.
      PERTIES --VISITS TO THE HEBRIDES  -        -

      DEATH OF MY FATHER --VISIT OF THE QUEEN AND
      PRINCE CONSORT TO INVERARAY -- BANQUET TO
      LORD DALHOUSIE --LITERARY WORK -
                                                 -

                        is

X CONTENTS TO VOL. I

CHAPTER          CASE -- EXHIBITION  OF 1851 -- VISIT TO   PAGg

 XV. THE RYLAND                                           314

       THE HEBRIDES --WINTER IN EDINBURGH           -     337
 -----UNIVERSITY
                                                          360
XVn. FALL OF LORD JOHN RUSSELL'S GOVERNMENT --            391
XVI.   OPENING OF GLASGOW ATHEN.EUM -- EXHIBITION OF      418
                                                          435
       1851 --FIRST OFFER OF GOVERNMENT OFFICE --         453
       .....TRATIONS
       THE COUP D'ETAT -- DISCOVERY OF ARDTUN LEAF-       471
                                                          496
       BED --ELECTED CHANCELLOR OF ST. ANDREW'S
                                                          514
....XX. OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR
       LORD DERBY'S AND LORD ABERDEEN'S ADMINIS           551

XVIH. ARGYLL LODGE --LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS    -      572
                                                   -
xix. Gladstone's budget - - -                      -

                                        -

XXI. THE CRIMEAN WAR

XXH. CABINET CRISIS RESIGNATION OF LORD PALMER-
       STON --THE ' FOUR POINTS ' --LETTER TO LORD

       CLARENDON  -   -              -  -          -

XXIII. DIFFICULTIES IN THE CRIMEA --LORD RAGLAN --

XXIV.     BILL FOR ENLISTMENT OF FOREIGN TROOPS -
       TROUBLES IN THE CRIMEA -- RESIGNATION OF LORD

          JOHN RUSSELL --DEFEAT OF ABERDEEN GOVERN
          MENT -- FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY LORD

          PALMERSTON --RESIGNATION OF MR. GLADSTONE,

       SIR JAMES GRAHAM, AND MR. SIDNEY HERBERT -
XXV. AUSTRIAN PROPOSALS FOR PEACE --ATTITUDE OF
       GLADSTONE --LORD CLARENDON'S PROPOSAL FOR

       A TREATY WITH SWEDEN          ---

XXVI. MEETING OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW --

       RESIGNATION OF PRIVY SEAL-- APPOINTED POST

       MASTER-GENERAL --PROPOSALS FOR PEACE         -

             LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS                                    Frontispiece

......George Douglas, Eighth Duke of Argyll, aged
  Twelve
From a miniature.

John, Fifth Duke of Argyll                            -To- -                     PAOB

                                                                      face 16

From a mezzotint by W. Dickinson after Gainsborough.

Photogravure.

EliazfatbeertwhardGsunnDiuncgh, essDuochfesasrgoyfll  Hamilton,  and
                                                       (wlfe of  the

Fifth Duke) - - - - - - ,, 20

Photogravure.

Lady John Campbell - - -                              -          -    ,, 30
                                                                      ,, 124
        From a painting by Milliship. Photogravure.                   ,, 208

John, Seventh Duke of Argyll

         From a drawing, circa 1800. Photogravure.

George Douglas, Eighth Duke of Argyll -                          -

From a drawing by George Richmond, B.A. Photogravure.

The Town of Inveraray - - - -                                         ,, 296
                                                                      ,, 352
         From a picture by the Duke of Argyll.

Bourg Headland, Mull : Ardtun Head Leaf-beds

         From a picture by the Duke of Argyll.

                            xi


       AUTOBIOGRAPHY

                                                        01

THE DUKE OF ARGYLL

                    CHAPTER I

                       PARENTAGE

Biography has    ever been to    mIef   the  most attractive
of all branches  of literature.         the  life we read be
the life of one whose sphere of experience or activity
hwbaeisltltebprer.oenbIatwblhmyoulalsywt adgkiifevfneeresunosmt seofrmonmeewnoesuwyrmokpnwaontwh, ileessod.gme,uIfcahnitdthbieet
the life of one who lived in a great epoch, and was an
agent in, or even only a witness of, great events, there
Iis no such insight into history as that which we may
thus   acTqhueirep.assagems u--stsommaektiem, eshothweevpearg, eso--newhreicshervaare
tion.
devoted to family history and genealogies are almost
always wearisome. And, except when they tell with
unusual clearness on   the great  question of heredity
--on the transmission  from one   generation to another

Iaocf tespr --ecitahleygifatsre
         of         mind or    special  tendencies of  char
          as         useless  as they   are tedious.     will

not, therefore, inflict upon others what has often been
irksome to myself.
For all practical purposes in biography we need
rarely go back farther than the second generation.
But our grandfathers and grandmothers may have
vol. i.
                                             1

2                    PARENTAGE                             [chap, i

had quite as strong an influence upon us as our own

immediate parents. In many cases grandparents and
grandchildren have led contemporary lives for many
years, during which continual or frequent personal
intercourse has confirmed hereditary character, and
has thus helped to establish continuities of thought.
This, however, was not my case, and, indeed, it can
only arise when the generations succeed each other

at short intervals of time. In my family those inter
vals were, on the contrary, very long. The date of
my grandfather's birth was separated from the date
Iof my own by no less than 100 years. He was born in

1723, whilst was not born till 1823. Our two lives,
I Itherefore, did not overlap at all, for he died in 1806,

seventeen years before saw the light. Yet am per
fectly conscious of many influences which came from
Ihim, and there were undoubtedly others in abundance,

of which have no consciousness at all. Then, besides
Ithis, many of the external conditions of my life were
a special inheritance from him.        must, therefore,
begin with a sketch of his character and career.
   The life of my grandfather, John, fifth Duke of
Argyll, was in many ways typical of the epoch in
which it was spent.  anBdorn174b5e--tweeeignhtthyeeatrwso   Jacobite
                                                           after the
Rebellions of 1715

first,  eavnedntstw--ehnisty-etawroly  years before the    second of
these                                  life was passed in  the army,
and in active service on the Continent. The religious
wars of the previous century had not yet come wholly
to an end, whilst at home uneasiness as to the security
of the Protestant succession had not yet passed away.
The French King harboured the exiled Stuarts ; and
there was still always a faction in England and in
Scotland ready to take advantage of any means for
the accomplishment of a second Restoration. There
was, therefore, much to defend, and much to fight for.
   The universal sentiment of mankind has in all ages
given a high place to the profession of arms. And
well it may, seeing that, as a matter of fact, there

1715-4£]          MY GRANDFATHER                        3

is not a single nation in the world which has not
been made by war. The military spirit is one of the
primary instincts of man, given to him for the great
purposes which it has actually served in the develop
ment of our race. But its ethical character depends
entirely on the conditions under which, and the objects

for which, it is indulged. And never were these higher
or purer than in the contests of the British people
to keep what they had gained, first, in the Reforma
tion, and, secondly, in the Revolution.
  My grandfather, therefore, was, and must have
been, a soldier with a will. The generation in which
he was born and brought up was in close touch with
those which had witnessed the great Civil War, and
which had tried the dangerous experiment of a Re
storation, with the natural and almost inevitable
result of another Revolution. His own family had
done much, and had suffered much, in the recent years.
His immediate ancestors had taken a prominent part

throughout. In his boyhood he must have met with
some old men who in their own boyhood had seen his
                          thIIe.            of Argyll, who
great-great-grandfather,          Marquis   and many more
was beheaded by Charles           in 1661,
who, in middle life, had seen his great-grandfather,
Archibald, ninth  Earl of Argyll, who was beheaded
                  1685. Both were judicial murders
by James II. in
of the worst type characteristic of the Stuarts.

  A sense of insecurity still brooded in the minds of
men during the thirty years between the two Jacobite
Rebellions. Some conspiracy, or some suspicion of
it,
                                                                        is

                                                                                                       a
was always in the air. Moreover, by a curious
by-path of association, the tyranny and corruption
from which the nation had escaped had left in the
fspeooampreualanprdermjmeianaldnoe,unsatyndmofeilvtitheaenrybineostrtghraeenmimzeaidtniydo--ns . noaf mIsttealtye,smsttheraannt, goef

to remember that in my grandfather's youth there was
no such thing as that which we now call a standing
army. But, of course, this fact only increased the

4  PARENTAGE                                               [chap, i

 importance of the families, and of the men who, from
 traditional and territorial influences, could, when
 occasion required, speedily raise considerable military
levies. This is one of the many services, too much
 forgotten now, which such families rendered to the
 State, when as yet the value of feudalism had not
wholly passed away.

    My grandfather was exactly in that position. In
his youth, indeed, there was no certain prospect of
his succeeding to the dukedom. He represented a
younger branch of the family, and, during a great
part of his life, the title and estates were held in suc
cession by two brothers descended from the eldest son
of the Earl who was beheaded in 1685. My grand
father was descended, in the same degree, from a
younger son of that unfortunate statesman. But his
two cousins* who successively held the dukedom
during his early and middle life were men who ruled
his spirit from their urns. Both of them died with
out a male heir, and so the succession opened to their
kinsman. But they left behind them the memory and
the influence of a splendid example. The elder of
them was that John, second Duke of Argyll, who,
for his great public services, was created Duke of
Greenwich by Queen Anne. He was a man whose
military reputation was second only to that of Marl
borough. He was a powerful speaker in Parliament,
took an active and efficient part in securing the
Protestant succession, and was celebrated by Pope in
one of his splendid couplets, f His beautiful monument
from the chisel of Roubilliac now fills a large space
in the Poets' Corner of Westminster Abbey. Perhaps,
above all, he still lives, and will ever live, in the
recollection of millions of every English-speaking race

   * John, Duke of Argyll and Greenwich, and Archibald,    third
Duke of Argyll.

      f ' Argyll, the State's whole thunder born to wield
               And shake alike the Senate and the Field.1

1745] MY GRANDFATHER'S WAR SERVICES                                               5

by his   association with   Sir Walter                Scott's immortal
fiction  of the ' Heart of  Midlothian,'              and the pathetic
story of Jeanie Deans. He died in 1743, and was
succeeded by his only brother, Archibald, who had
been previously raised to the peerage by the title of
Earl of Islay. Without the brilliant gifts of his more
illustrious brother, Duke Archibald had a full share
of his substantial abilities, and he continued to be
what he had long been, the mainstay of the Govern
ment in the management of Scotland.
   My    grandfather had entered                    the
        age, and in his   twdeenattihe--th          year,  army    --atthae  very
early    great kinsman's                                                     year
of his                                                       1743
                                                                              the
                                             was engaged upon
Continent in the bloody and arduous fight of Dettingen.
The   froermeiegmnbecaremdp--aicghnisefloyf         Anne's time are still
well                                         Queen  to our national pride
                                             owing
in the great English captain, John Churchill, Duke of
Marlborough, whose military genius has made his
name immortal. But        ItIh.,e            later campaigns       abroad, in
                                             are now almost        forgotten.
the reign of George
No great general left his mark upon them, and they
had comparatively little effect on the politics of
           Yet in principle                  and in   --aitmhe
Europe.    continuity between                                      there was
a perfect                                       them                principle,

namely, of antagonism to France, and an instinct
that we had a national interest in thwarting her
threatened supremacy over other nations.
  The battles fought in the Low Countries by George                          II.
were sometimes desperate encounters,                Iatnids  by no means
devoid of interest in the art of war.                        curious now

to remember that at Dettingen my grandfather saw
the last fight in which any English King led his own
troops on the   field of battle. And                on that occasion
not only was                                        commander, but
               George II. the nominal
he and his son the Duke of Cumberland personally
led their men, and it was by their energy and
courage that a difficult and bloody victory was won.
But by this time the nation was becoming jealous of
wars which seemed more connected with the interests

6               PARENTAGE  [chap, i

of Hanover than of England, and which were largely
waged with mercenary troops, Hessians, Hanoverians,
and Dutch, in British pay. Events, however, soon
compelled even the Opposition in Parliament to think
better of their jealousy of foreigners and of the neces
sity of employing them.
   Not long after my grandfather returned from the
campaign of               inEvnagsiloannd--awasreptehtrietiaotneneodn,  in
1744, with    Dettingen,                                                 a
             a French
smaller scale of the Spanish Armada, and an anticipa

tion of Napoleon's Camp of Boulogne. In this new
moment of alarm only 7,000 native troops could be
collected by the Government to defend the home
counties, and the aid of foreign mercenaries was
admitted to be indispensable. But, as before, the
elements intervened, and the French fleet was scattered
by a storm. Then came, soon after, in 1745, the
landing of the Pretender in Scotland. The insur
rection he raised was immediately seen to be formid
able, and again the native British Army was felt to
be inadequate.
   When the Rebellion of 1745 began, my grandfather
was sent to Argyllshire to raise a force to co-operate
with the army of the King. This he did successfully.
The royal officers, however, had a natural distrust of
all raw levies, and invariably managed, if they could,
to place   them in some   position which was disadvan
tageous                   my grandfather resented this
          or useless. If
treatment, as Highlanders generally did, he speedily
had his revenge, for immediately after joining the
King's army, before the Battle of Falkirk, he wit
nessed there, from a flank position which had been
assigned to him, that disgraceful rout of the royal
troops which greatly increased the national alarm,
already serious, on account of those early successes
of the Rebellion which had brought the Pretender's
army into the heart of England. My grandfather
then joined, with his contingent, the forces collected
by the Duke of Cumberland to meet the insurrection

1745]  RECRUITING IN THE HIGHLANDS, 1745                               7

in the North. Again holding a flank position, he
was a witness of, and an actor in, that rout of the
insurgents which Wordsworth calls ' Culloden's fatal
overthrow,' on the 16th April, 1746.
The suppression of the Rebellion of 1745 brought
to a close my grandfather's active service in the field.
But it did not bring to a close his services in the
army. These services were efficient and prolonged.
They were rendered at a time when the making of

the British Army, as we now understand the term,
was a process which had, indeed, been begun, but was
as yet very incomplete. The disloyalty of the Stuart
Kings to the supremacy of law over arbitrary power
had impressed upon the people and upon Parliament
the risk of placing in the hands of the Crown so
dangerous a weapon as a standing army. The mark
of this fear still survives in the limitation to one
year only of the Act which enables military discipline
to be enforced, and in the consequent annual passing
of the Mutiny Act. But the alarm of French invasion
in 1744, and the alarming Jacobite Rebellion of 1745,
had opened men's eyes to the dangerous military weak
ness which on both those occasions had compelled the
Government to rely on aid from foreign mercenaries.
The army which did such good service at Culloden was

lfarurIgtitefwluyal --sforttehhieogruneg.fhotre   a  happy -- and, as  it proved, a very
                                                     appeal to the     military spirit of
                                                 to
the loyal Highland clans, and thus to open a new
field of recruitment for the national army of the
Crown. By some unaccountable mistake, this happy
                                                     adottrwibiuthtedit--toexcaepmt atno
thought has been universally
who had nothing whatever to
take advantage of it years after its practicability
and triumphant success had been proved on one of
the bloodiest of the battlefields of Europe. That
man is the elder Pitt, afterwards Lord Chatham.
It is almost a law that reputations so splendid as
his attract to themselves elements which are purely

8                PARENTAGE                            [chap, i

mythical. My old friend and political chief, Lord
Aberdeen, who in his youth was intimate with the
younger Pitt, and must have known the devotion of
that great man to his illustrious father's memory,
used, nevertheless, to say that Chatham was ' a very
overrated man.'
   The impression, however, which such men make
on their own generation is, after all, the best proof
of the reality of their power, whilst it leaves us free,
without fear of unjust detraction, to deduct whatever
Iitems of popular fame may turn out to be untrue
in themselves and unjust to others.        hardly know
how to account for the blunder which has been
                                          in this matter of the
made by   rheognimesetnths.istorIitaniss  conspicuously repeated,
Highland
and almost ludicrously emphasized, by Lord Mahon,
afterwards Earl Stanhope, in his ' History of England.'
Not only does he ascribe as a fact the whole merit
to Chatham, but he exalts that merit to the skies, as
if it were almost the chief glory of his career. After
Ialluding to some acknowledged defects in  the     character
                                                   And yet,
of Chatham, Lord Mahon proceeds thus            '

                                             :

in spite of such defects, must maintain that there
are some incidents in Chatham's life not to be sur

passed in either ancient or modern story. Was it
not he who devised that lofty and generous scheme
for removing the disaffection of the Highlanders by
enlisting them in regiments for the service of the
Crown ? Their minds, which Culloden could not sub
due, at once yielded to his confidence : by trusting,
he reclaimed them : by putting arms into their hands,
he converted mutinous subjects into loyal soldiers !
Let Rome or Sparta, if they can, boast a nobler
thought.'* We may suspect, indeed, that the fervour
of this rhetoric has been heated by the natural favouri
tism of family connection, since Chatham was married
to a Stanhope, a near kinswoman of the historian.

   * Mahon's ' History of England,' vol iii., p. 26.

1745] DUNCAN FORBES AND LORDTlSLAY                      9

IBut knew Lord Stanhope for many years well enough
to be sure that he was incapable of intentionally per
verting the facts of history so far as he had know

ledge of them. Yet nothing can be more certain
than that the whole merit of the scheme for the enlist
ment of Highlanders, whatever that merit may have
been, belonged, not to any English Minister, but to
two Scottish statesmen, both themselves Highlanders,
who were already in possession of power and of a
high reputation in years when the future Chatham

was yet a boy.
These two Highlanders were Duncan Forbes of
Culloden, proprietor of the estate on which the battle
was fought, and his intimate friend, Archibald, Lord
Islay, younger brother of John, Duke of Argyll and
Greenwich, who succeeded to the dukedom in 1743.
Five years                                Pitt had even entered
Parliament  --beifnore173t0he-- etlhdeer
                                          scheme had been com

menced by the enlistment of local companies, which
received the now famous name of the Black Watch.
They were employed in the service of the Crown and
of the established Government, in watching suspected

districts of the Highlands. In 1738 Duncan Forbes
drew up a paper advising                  extension of  tahremyp.olicIyt
by enlisting Highlanders             an   the regular

                                     in
was warmly received by his friend Lord Islay, and
by him laid before Sir Robert Walpole. By him also
it was approved, and in the following year, 1739,
the original six companies of the              Black   WLaintceh--wtehree
        i'nFtoortya-serceognudla.'r            of the
formed                               regiment
famous                                         the regiment was
                                      In 1743
sent abroad to take its part in the campaign of Det-

tingen. In that year and in 1744 they rose to great
honour both in fighting and in the camp. In 1745,
in the disastrous Battle of Fontenoy, not only did
their gallantry, but their discipline, win for them
golden opinions in the face of Europe.

  During all these years the elder Pitt was not yet
in even subordinate office. As a member of the

10       PARENTAGE                               [chap, i

Opposition, he not only gave no help to the policy
of native recruitment for the army, but he was still
denouncing every step towards the establishment of
any standing army at all, and was even inveighing
         the military life as a profession.  He  1d7id56--noat
against   Secretary of State till the end    of
become

date when the enlistment of Highlanders was no
longer in the stage of an experiment, but was a proved,
and even a splendid, success. The Forty-second had
become one of the crack regiments of the British
--sertvhicee.mosGtendtilsetminegnuishofedtheoffiocledresst ofHitghhelaanrdmyfa--mwileierse
proud to be promoted to its command. Accordingly,
my grandfather became the Colonel of the Forty-second
in 1747, and for seven years, during which the regiment
was stationed in Ireland, he devoted himself to the

perfecting of its discipline, and to the maintaining
of its  yihseiagprhslemabsoearfnoartlecthotahrkeancoItrewisr.hthRaet bealtliotnhisofpe1r7io98d----tshoemree

  It

fifty
was not only no hostile feeling against the British
troops stationed in that "country, but, on the contrary,
such cordial relations with both officers and men of
the distinguished corps which my grandfather com
manded, that, when the regiment was ordered to
Canada in 1756 by Chatham's administration, the
Irish people exhibited every mark of sorrow on
account of their departure. My grandfather did not
accompany the regiment to Canada. But he received
the colonelcy of another corps, and was promoted to
higher and higher rank in the service during the
remainder of his life, until in 1806 he died the oldest
IField-Marshal in the British Army.

      must confess, however, that as all this was only
one-half of my grandfather's life, so it was not the
Ihalf which has had any hereditary influence on my

tmohwialnitt.aarcycounsenervtv--eicreI,hhaaavvletehohaualwgdhay--tshephearsdhliagtphhsteeshatilgl hintehcseltinaamptpoiorreencioatno

1756]  DEVELOPMENT OF THE ESTATE                 11

tion of the military character. Pitt's doctrine, when
as yet he had not become himself a great War Minister,
Ithat the regular profession of arms is an unworthy

profession, have always held to be singularly false.
Tpuhbalticprvoirfteusessio--n opbreodmieontcees  and encourages the highest
                                                 to legitimate authority, the
obligations and the sense of duty, and the need of
self-sacrifice even unto death. Its code of honour is
a high one. The stress it lays on discipline has a far-
reaching influence on virtue and success in all the
affairs of life ; and as the great object of all war ought
to be the securing of a lasting peace, so does the military
life serve as an admirable preparation for the conduct
of civil and economic administration.
Such, accordingly, in a marked degree, was its
effect upon my grandfather. The second half of his
life was very different from the first. Both were
inconspicuous indeed in the public eye, because the
work of organizing the first elements of an army is
not less quiet and unobtrusive than the work of
leading the organization and development of agri
culture in a poor and backward country. And the
latter was the work to which he was really called.
Soon after his service with the Forty-second High
landers in Ireland had come to an end, the second
half of his life may be said to have begun with his
marriage in 1759. He was now thirty-three years of
age, and the progress of time had then made it almost
certain that the last of the two brothers who, ever
since my grandfather was born, had in succession held
the dukedom of Argyll would leave no son. After his
own father, who was still alive, my grandfather was
the next heir, and, although he was then only Colonel
Campbell, he held, in consequence of this prospect,
a position in society which gave him every advantage.
This advantage, together with his own attractions, he
turned to good account in the choice of a wife.
Some years before he went to Ireland in 1751, that
country had made a notable contribution to the attrac

12                      PARENTAGE                                           [chap, i

tions of the English capital. A country gentleman from
the county of Roscommon, and his wife, had brought
over to London their family of three daughters, to
push their fortune in the world. The second of
these girls was instantly recognised as the most
beautiful  woman        ofsehnesrattiimone--. risCionngtemtoporeaxrcyitewmreitnint g--s
are full   of the
made by Elizabeth Gunning wherever she appeared.
Men and women stood on chairs in every crowded as
sembly to see her as she passed. The door of the
theatre or opera, when she was known to be present,
was mobbed by crowds to get a glimpse of her as she
arrived or              left. The highest names                     in the English
aristocracy              were at her feet. At                       last -- not very
wisely, by all accounts -- she accepted the Duke of
Hamilton, and was married to him in February, 1752.
IBut his death within six years, in 1758, left her a
young widow with two sons and one daughter.                                       do
not know under what circumstances my grandfather
met the beautiful widow, nor the story of his court
ship. He was himself a good-looking man. His own
father had been known as ' handsome Jack,' and his
                                                 Bellenden,
mother    was the       famous   Mary           of George           II.one    of  the
greatest  beauties      of the  Court                                       He    had

the reputation of a brave soldier and of an excellent
officer. He had a courteous and dignified manner,
and a most amiable and attractive disposition. Suffice
it to say that he was accepted by the still young and
beautiful Duchess of Hamilton, and that                             the marriage
took place in 1759-- a happy marriage,                              which lasted
thiIrttyi-sonofeteyneavres,ryudnitfiflichuelrt  death in 1790.
                                                to obtain any       vivid   impres

sion of the beauty of celebrated women, or to under
stand fully                                                           on their own
rgeepnreersaetniotn--.  tTheheiimr pforremss--ionsucthheayt  made   as statuary can
                                                             least   to do with it,
                        may have little or nothing
and even the far more adequate art of painting fails,
not infrequently, to translate to us what our fathers
saw. Of this, Mary, Queen of Scots, is a conspicuous

                    MY GRANDMOTHER                                         13

example. Not one of her portraits can give us the
least idea of what she is described to have been. A
miniature of her which is preserved at Windsor Castle,
and   which was a   hfearvosuornit, e JalmikeenseVssI.,ofis,hiIs           in
the  estimation of                                                mother   to
                                                                  venture
think, not only not beautiful, but not even well-
favoured. Movement, grace, and charm, may be all
either lost, or but faintly suggested to the imagination,
even in the finest pictures. There are, of course, some
kinds of beauty which can be represented more easily,
and more completely than others. But these are,
generally, not of the highest type. The beauty of
' Nelson's Lady Hamilton ' is an excellent example.
The brilliant colouring and the other physical attrac
tions of that celebrated adventuress are reproduced
for our admiration, with probably as much complete
success as art can attain, in the beautiful and innumer
able reproductions of Romney. But although Lady
Hamilton fascinated many men, she never did, and
never could, enthral the world. Crowds never waited
on her steps, nor did men and women mount on chairs
to see her pass. Beauty of this high type evades the
limner's art.

There are some portraits of my grandmother, even
by distinguished artists, which do indeed depict an
evidently pretty woman, but which give us no explana
tion at all of the universal sensation produced on a
society where beauty was abundant. There are, how
ever, some two or three pictures which, in some measure
at least, allow us to understand what her beauty was.
One of these represents her as she was when Duchess
of Hamilton. The other
some ten years later -- in  re1p7r6e7s--enatss  her as she appeared
                                                Duchess of Argyll.
It is painted by Cotes. The first of these is at Hamilton
Palace ; the second is in my own possession at Inveraray.
My father, who was her youngest child, and who was
a boy of thirteen when his mother died in 1790, remem
bered her well ;   and  his opinion  Itwarseptrheaset ntthseapboeratruatiyt
by Cotes is the   best  he knew.

14                       PARENTAGE              [chap, i

of the very highest type --a beauty absolutely devoid
of any element merely meretricious. Her general
complexion was fair ; her eyes were long rather than
large, of an almost pure blue, but set off with eyelashes
which were dark ; all her features were clear-cut, deli
cate, and harmonious. Everything is in keeping, no
colour very brilliant, but enough for warmth. Perfect
refinement, and perfect symmetry of features and of
figure, with great sweetness of expression, are the pre
dominant characteristics, with a pose of the head and
neck in lines of faultless beauty. One sees that her
carriage and her walk must have set off the whole
effect with extraordinary dignity and grace. The
artist in this beautiful picture has represented in the
              a sunflower    --tharogwraicnegfulitasrtigstoicldecnomdpilsic
background   lovely subject
towards his

ment, well conceived and well deserved.
    Of my grandmother's mental gifts we have ample
evidence that she was a woman of strong character,
of decided opinions, and with excellent habits of busi

ness. In her correspondence she expressed herself
with force and clearness. For many years she was the
guardian of her son, the young Duke of Hamilton. As
such she was the principal manager of the great estates
and of the great political influence of that important
family. On one occasion she heard that abuses were
arising in the Island of Arran, due largely to the non-
residence of the factor. The Duchess at once wrote to
her co-trustees that a gentleman who thought Arran
not fit for him to live in, must himself be unfit to manage
it. She was an excellent wife and an excellent mother.
Her children always spoke of her with great reverence
and affection. She          a favourite Lady at the Court
of Queen Charlotte  --waas  mark, certainly, of that good

Queen's amiability, since the contrast between herself
and the beautiful Duchess must have been so extreme
as to challenge observation, and perhaps sometimes to
provoke comment.
   The only inheritance  of disposition  which  I have seen

1768]       THE RIOTS IN LONDON                     15

from my grandmother was a great love which my
father had for the Irish people. He never forgot that
his mother was an Irishwoman, and wherever he came

across her countrymen, whether as bands of reapers
employed on the English harvest-fields, or as friends
in his own society, he had a special enjoyment in their
warm-heartedness and humour.
IThere is, indeed, one anecdote of my grandmother
which   of  record with special    plIeIaIs.uriet.    In the first
decade        the reign of George
                                                    is well known

that the folly of the Government and the folly of the
House of Commons had elevated into the position of a
champion of the cause of personal liberty that notorious
and profligate adventurer John Wilkes. More effectu
ally to defy the Government, Wilkes stood as candidate
in 1768 for the county of Middlesex. The populace of
London was thrown by the contest into the most
violent excitement. Riotous and dangerous mobs
paraded the streets. One of the amusements was to
attack the houses of distinguished families to compel
them to illuminate in honour    of  their hero.
others they assailed the house  of  the Argyll      famAmilyo. ngsItt
was situated in a narrow street, still called Argyll Street,
which runs to the east of, and parallel to, Regent Street
before it joins Oxford Street. There was at the time
nobody in the house but my grandmother, who was
expecting her confinement. Her husband, my grand
father, was out of town. The mob broke into the outer

courtyard, yelling and shouting as mobs do, and calling
on the inmates to illuminate the windows. Although
alone, the Duchess was not intimidated, and stoutly
refused to exhibit a single light. She contrived, how
ever, to send a messenger by a back way to the nearest
barracks, and a company of soldiers came to her relief,
and dispersed the mob. There are few women, perhaps
not many men, who would have exposed themselves
Ito such a danger.  sometimes think            tahmatcoonnescioofusth--e
Istrongest
                                               be an inherited
namely,
         instinctive feelings of  w--hmichust
        a destestation of mobs

16            PARENTAGE                    [chap, i

instinct from the brave woman who showed such spirit
in 1768. The worst passions of humanity are in
carnated in mobs ; and no passage in the history of the
French Revolution gives me such pleasure as that which
records the first occasion on which the bloodthirsty
mobs of Paris met their master in the young General of
artillery who mowed them down with grapeshot on the
4th and 5th October, 1795.
The complete change of pursuits which began with
my grandfather soon after his marriage, and gave its
character to  all the remainder of his  long life, requires
a few words                             the custom of the
              of explanation. It was
great territorial families in Scotland to give or assign,
by lease or feu, to the younger branches some farm or
farms upon the family estates. According to this
custom, the younger son of that Earl of Argyll who was
beheaded in 1685 became tenant, or feuar, of a farm
on his father's estate of Rosneath in Dumbartonshire --

an estate which had been acquired by grant from the
Crown in the sixteenth century.
   Rosneath is a long and narrow
hills separating Loch Long from   ptheeninGsaurlaerlocrhid--getwoof
arms of the sea which branch off from the Firth of
Clyde. Halfway down this promontory, and halfway
up the steep face which it presents to the Gareloch,
    the farm called Mamore.     This was  --thfreomhomwehicohf
    grandfather's branch of  the family
Ilies

my
they were called the Campbells of Mamore.              do

not know in detail how much of his boyhood my
grandfather may have spent at Mamore with his
father, and with his mother, the beautiful Mary
Bellenden. But his intense enjoyment of a country
life in his elder years, and his devotion to agricultural
improvement after a long time devoted to military
service, finds its best explanation in the influence of an
early home, and in particular of such a home as Mamore.
Probably in the whole Highlands of Scotland there is
not a more lovely spot, or one of which the beauty is
varied and peculiar. The long narrow bed, or b.



1806]               ROSNEATH AND MAMORE                                   17

of the Gareloch lies at its feet, surrounded on east and
north-east by steep and lofty hills. To the south-east
the view opens out to the Valley of the Clyde and the
lower hills of Lanarkshire. To the north-east, the
continuation of the Rosneath ridge falls steeply to the
shore, well clothed with hanging copse-woods, and
fine ash-trees overshadowing little bays of rock and
beach. Then, higher up in the same direction, the
whole range of the Argyllshire mountains, with un
usually rocky and corrugated surfaces and broken out
lines, lifts its amphitheatre of rugged battlements

against the sky. In the present day these lovely
shores are spangled with villas, and the calm waters of
the loch are somewhat marred by the Gareloch having
been adopted as a hospital for great American liners
that have become unfit for active service on the ocean.
But in my grandfather's childhood the Gareloch was one
of the most secluded sheets of water on the West Coast.

There was nothing to remind a dweller on its shores of
the stir and bustle of life, still less of bloody fields of
baItftlem, ulcikhe  Dettingen and Fontenoy.
                    of my grandfather's boyhood  was               spent  at
Mamore, it would account for the facility with which
he turned again in middle life to pursuits which took
him back to those scenes of quiet beauty in which his
childhood had been spent, and in which his destined
inheritance was to be. That inheritance, however, did
not fall to his branch of the family, in the person of his
own father, till 1761, when Duke Archibald died ; nor
to himself          till 1770, when his father also                died. In

this year --        thHiartmeeilntonye--arhse  after his marriage   with the
                                                succeeded to the    dukedom
Duchess of

and estates of Argyll, which he held and administered
with great wisdom and success for thirty-six years,
until his own death in 1806, at the age of eighty-three.

VOL. i,                                                            2

    CHAPTER II

    1770-1816

JOHN, FIFTH DUKE, AND JOHN, SEVENTH DTTKE OF
                                   ARGYLL

Until his own succession, in 1770, my grandfather had
no opportunity of exercising his taste for improvement,
except on the farms or residences which he took from
his cousin or his father. Mamore had ceased to afford
even the scanty accommodation which at that time was
deemed tolerably sufficient. At the beginning of the
sixteenth century people of gentle birth lived in dwel
lings which many a modern labourer would not consent
to occupy. When Dr. Johnson visited Macdonald of
Inch Kenneth in the course of his tour in the Hebrides,
he tells us that he was received ' with all the elegance
of lettered hospitality.' Yet the houses in which this
reception was given were a group of small thatched
cottages which no proprietor, however poor, would now
consider to be even tolerably comfortable.
    But when the heir to his title and estates had married
the most beautiful woman of her day, the old Duke
Archibald assigned to my grandfather another resi
dence on the same promontory of Rosneath, nearer to
his own castle, and in a situation not less beautiful than
Mamore. That house still remains, and is a monument

of  the scanty accommodation which  was yet    sufficient
to  meet the demands and habits of  the time.
                                                 It is a
long, narrow building, the principal room occupying its
whole width, with windows on each side ; low ceilings ;
steep, traplike wooden stairs; and the ground-floor
rather below the level of the ground outside. But

TREES. AT INVERARAY                                        19

the hand of the improver is now conspicuous in the
beautiful double avenue of limes and Spanish chestnut
trees, which encloses a still older avenue of yews, which
must be older than my grandfather's time.
At a somewhat later date, probably after his own
father's succession, my grandfather had a farm on the
Inveraray estate, about two miles from the castle.
Here, on a very steep bank near the public road, he
planted a number of silver fir, spruce, and larch, which
have been for many years, and still are, among the
glories of our woodland. Recent gales of gre#,t violence
have thrown over only too many of them. But enough
still remain to be a conspicuous feature from many
points of view. One of the silver firs cannot be less
than 1 20 feet high, and is 17 feet in girth, taken at 5 feet
from the ground. The silver fir is the noblest of all
European pines when it is really fine and healthy;
but no one who has seen it only in England or in the
Southern Lowlands can have any idea of its magnifi
cence when it meets with a congenial soil and climate
along the western mountains of Scotland. Almost
everywhere it is indeed always taller than other trees,
but in the Lowlands generally it lifts against the sky
nothing but thin and scraggy tops, which look, and are,
unhealthy. But at Inveraray, and elsewhere in the
Western Highlands, when it has been planted in shelter
from the blast of the open sea, it rears a superb mass of
very dark green      foliage into  tthreunku.ppeIrt  air upon a
straight, powerful,   and massive                    is not very
often that we can identify magnificent trees with the

Iplanting and the care of a particular man. But
never pass under the shadow of these grand old silver
firs without having my grandfather's personality
brought very vividly before me.
The improvement and adornment of selected bits
of land was an employment which widened out into a
much larger horizon of work when my grandfather suc
ceeded to the dukedom. He then became a chief
among the great band of workers to whom the wonder
                                                     2--2

20 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap. II

ful economic progress of Scotland during the eighteenth
century was mainly due. This is a subject on which
the facts are little remembered or considered now. Yet
it is the history of changes greater, perhaps, than have
ever passed over any people in an equally short space
of time. Through all the Middle Ages the agriculture
of Scotland was miserable in the extreme. There was

chronic poverty and there were frequent famines. In
the Highlands agriculture was backward to really an
incredible degree.
   From the accounts we have of the rural economy

of the monks of Iona in the seventh century, it is
clear that agriculture in those regions had not only
made no progress for a thousand years, but had retro
graded until it had become deplorable. The people
did not know how to save out of abundant grass
a mouthful of hay for the winter sustenance of their
cattle. They did not know how to cut their corn, or
how to thrash it out, except by processes which
wasted by burning a great part of the straw, and
damaged a great part of the grain. Their cattle were
miserable in quality, and always, except in the height
of summer, half starved in condition. Great numbers

actually died every winter.
All these results were inseparably bound up with
customs of occupation and of tenure to which the
people were passionately attached with the deep
but stupid attachment of long hereditary habit.
Nothing but some external authority, governed by
superior intelligence and knowledge, could abolish,
or even                 --ruiinndoeuesd,cusimtopmoss.siblRee. forRmuinfrooums
within   modify, these
         was hopeless
habits were bound up with the very constitution of
society, which, as regarded the usual occupation of land,
was communal, and not individual. That is to say,
land was occupied by small communities, and not by
individuals. No individual could adopt any reform
without the consent of all his neighbours. This, indeed,
was not peculiar to the Highlands of Scotland, but was



      SCOTLAND EN THE EIGHTEENTH OENTTJRY                                 21

common over the whole of Europe, as it still largely
prevails in Russia. But it was gradually broken up
in Scotland and in England, especially during the earlier
half of the century in which my grandfather was born.
His eminent predecessors, Duke John and Duke Archi
bald, under the wise advice of the same remarkable
man, Forbes of Culloden, had begun the all-important
economic reform which changed the communal holders
from being mere subtenants at will under the larger
tenants (who almost universally held on lease) to the
condition of tenants holding directly from the owner.
Mercifully for Scotland, the full rights and powers of
ownership had never been muddled away, or confused
by any legal recognition of arrangements which rested on
nothing but those lazy and ignorant acquiescences which
are the greatest of all impediments to human progress.
Consequently, the ruinous habits which had so degraded
agriculture had never been stereotyped or rendered in
delible by being erected into customary rights.
The law of Scotland had a wise jealousy of rights
being either lost, on the one hand, or established, on the
other, without distinct evidence of intention on the

part  of those  wIfhothheadlotnhge-epsotwabelrisohfekdeeupsianggesor  of  parting
with   them.                                                          of  a semi-

barbarous age had been allowed to establish themselves
by mere lapse of time as legal rights and obligations, a
large part of the whole rural population of Scotland
would have been practically reduced to serfdom. Not
money, but personal service, was the form in which
rent was paid for the occupation of land during many
generations. And these services were often sufficiently
engrossing and continuous to impede, if not to prevent,
any other kind of industry. But the law never recog
nised such usages, however ancient, as interfering with
the rights of personal liberty. Those who were ag
grieved or oppressed by them could always repudiate
them by throwing up the possession to which they were
attached. On the other hand, the right of ownership
in land, which was nothing either more or less than the

22 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, n

right of exclusive use, could not be lost merely because
it had not been exercised in some particular manner
for an indefinite period of time, and tenants had thus
been allowed to sit on, or hold on, without change from
one generation to another. The right of exclusive use
did indeed also belong to occupying tenants as against
all other men, but it could only be acquired by them by
express concession from the owner, for a definite time,
as by a lease, or for ever, as by a feu charter. What
the law demanded, as the law of every civilized country
ought to demand, was clear and definite evidence of
the agreements by which any man acquired any right
not originally his own, or by which any man gave away
       right  which        in his power to give or to withhold.
anIyt         under  was   system of legal protection over all
        was          this

rights that, when the owners of land awoke to the in
veterate evils which had arisen out of the archaic
usages under which they had allowed their estates to
be held occupied by the various classes of tenant, they
found themselves in possession of the fullest powers
to deal with those evils by insisting on changes in the
terms of occupancy. Those changes, however ob
viously salutary to enlightened forethought, and to
those who had even the most elementary knowledge
of agriculture, were almost always repugnant to
engrained habits and affections, and were really tanta
mount to a complete break-up and reorganization of
the whole system of rural society. Nothing could have
availed to introduce such reforms except the ultimate
power and recognised right of every land-owner to say
to his tenants and subtenants : ' Unless you agree to
occupy and to hold my land under these new condi
tions, you must give up that occupation altogether and
leave my estate.'
   The   soemfxaefarllcr--misesc--onowsfiassstiunecgahsyopfaonswdoem, rsienddoeonezdee,nssht,aatboeirstueavcle.onmpsSaourmcaeh
tively

scores,

exercise operated slowly and by degrees, affecting
only a few individuals at any one time. But on

SCOTLAND IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY                                  23

great territorial estates, such as those of the Argyll
family, embracing large areas all over a great country,
and containing thousands of people, it is obvious
that the exercise of such rights needed the greatest
judgment and discretion.
   The operation, however, had begun in the days of
Duke John, first in a report from his own commis
sioner, Campbell of Shawfield, Sheriff of the county,
in 1730, and secondly on a further report from no
less important an authority than Forbes of Culloden,
whose devotion to his illustrious friend induced him

to undertake a personal inspection of the Hebridean
estates in 1738. His plan of dealing with a condition
of barbarous    woigrndo, rarandciecala--ndthwatastise  was, in the best
sense of the                                            to say, it went to
the root of the causes which had led to such a state
of things. But it was a plan which required time and
steady perseverance. A whole population could not
practically be evicted and removed. Leaseholders could
not be changed until their leases had expired. New
men had to be found willing and able to take lands on
wholly new conditions. Duke John saw the serious
ness and difficulty of the task. He wrote to his
friend Culloden thanking him for his report and for
his advice, confessing that it was a scheme of manage
ment which might well engage all the interest of a
man younger than himself, and of one who had an
heir of his own to follow him. Such, he reminded
Culloden, was not his own position. This, however,
was only a passing expression of that feeling of dis
couragement which comes over men who have no
children to follow them in the possession of a great
inheritance. Duke John ought to have remembered
that, though he had no son of his own to profit by his
exertions, his next heirs were, after all, of his own

blood and lineage.                               date--well within
   Only  sixty  ayesainrsglebelfiofere--ththaet  two branches of    the
           of                                                       the
compass
family had a common father in the Earl who had

24 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, n

died upon the scaffold in 1685. It is the duty of
every man who occupies such estates to manage
them for the best, not only for his own life, but
for the lives that are to come. And no doubt,
in his more serious moments, Duke John acted on
this principle, from that instinctive interest in his
family and his name which is the most powerful and
salutary influence in the hereditary principle. He did
actually begin the reforms so much needed, because
he had given full authority to his friend Culloden
to take such steps as he could to begin a better
system. And, accordingly, such steps were taken.
The new principle of emancipating the mass of the
inhabitants from the condition of subtenants holding
at the will of the large leaseholders, and raising them
to the condition of tenants holding directly from the
             on fixed  --antdhisdepfirninitceipcleondwitaios nsa,dobpottehd  as to
proprietor  otherwise                                                         and
rent and

enforced even against the stupidity and opposition
of those whose interests were most directly promoted
by the change. But after this principle was estab
lished, much remained to be done in the application
of it, and in the direction given to the conditions
on which definite contracts were to be made with the
people. Duke John, his brother, Duke Archibald, and
the first  Duke of the Mamore             branch, all continued              --to
work on    the lines laid down            by Forbes of Culloden
which, indeed, were the lines on which proprietors'
rights were at this time being exercised all over Scot
land, as well in the Lowlands as in the Highlands.
When, thirty-two years after the report of Culloden,
my grandfather succeeded to the dukedom, the same
lparrogbelemesstataesw--aitperdobhleimms  in the administration   of         his
                                           complicated by the    rise         of
new economic conditions which neither he nor any
of his contemporaries fully understood. The truth is
that economic changes are hardly ever understood, or
even noticed at all, by the generations over whom
they pass. Even now, when the science of statistics

1750-1806]  MIGRATION AND EMIGRATION         25

gives, or may give, perpetual notes of warning, many
silent footsteps are unheeded or unknown. But in
the last century, when statistics did not exist, still
more did great changes creep on, as it were, by stealth.
Proceeding often from causes which appear to be
trivial, and are entirely beyond control, they attract
no notice until the accumulated effects culminate in

some great movement which arrests universal atten
tion, or may even excite general alarm.
Such exactly were the economic causes which were
working upon the condition and the numbers of the
people of Scotland, and especially of the Highlands,
            the whole of                     olfifei,t--antdhawt itish,
during      energy during  my grandfather's
special                     the latter half
from about 1750 to 1806. There was, in the first
place, an enormously rapid increase of population
with no proportionate increase of the means of sub

sistence. In the second place, there was a sense of
poverty and of danger of actual famine, which, in
an increasing degree, was pressing home upon the

consciousness of the people. In the third place,
there were new possibilities of escape opened up
before the eyes of the people, by the knowledge of
more civilized laws brought home by their friends
and relatives returned from military service in foreign

and colonial wars. In the fourth place, there was a
demand for labour, and high wages were offered,
owing to the rising commerce of the cities and towns
of the Low Country.
All those things co-operating resulted in a perfect
rage for migration and for emigration from the rural
districts all over Scotland, but especially from the
Highlands. My grandfather was one of the many
great owners who regarded this movement with alarm.
He could not get entirely rid of the recollections of
his early life, and of the teaching of his distinguished
predecessors, who looked upon the population of the
Highlands as the best of all recruiting-grounds for the
British Army. He therefore threw himself with energy

n26 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap.

into every scheme, however artificial, for devising home
employment for the people.     They were          altlofasitluopresthe
all except one, and that one   did nothing
exodus of a population which had become excessive.
On the contrary,       that exodus was an essential pre
liminary, and a        necessary antecedent of the   only
real remedy for        the poverty of the people.    That
remedy was the establishment of an improved system
of agriculture. But an improved system of agricul
ture  could not even be        begun without the  eemffeacntscipoa f
tion  of the individual        from the clogging
ignorant, effete communities. Every little farm was
overloaded with families which tried in vain to make
                                                  of a barbarous
aageliv--inugsagoeust  of the  immemorial usages  with the first
                       which   were incompatible
principles of a successful agriculture.
Fortunately, in my grandfather's case, as in many
others, the errors of speculative opinions were effectu
ally  neutralized by the practical instincts of the  tfahramt eirt
and   the land-owner. Those instincts told him
was his duty, as much as his interest, to make the soil
yield its largest possible returns of food, and every
measure taken in that direction, and with this object
in view, was a measure taken in the interests of his
country and of its people. In the application of this
general principle to the changes demanded in a long
pre-existing system, there was new and ample room
for the wise discretion of a just and benevolent mind.
This was the work of his day and generation. He
took in it an active and distinguished part. He was
      of the original founders and       first    President of
one   Highland Agricultural Society               organization
the                                      -- an

which played a great part in the progress of Scottish
agriculture. He was, on a large scale, himself a

Ifarmer, and an improver of the breeds of cattle. His

daily note-books, which possess, show his attention
to every minutest detail of rural improvement, whilst
the volumes of correspondence with his factors on his
more distant estates exhibit the most business-like

1806-41]          MY GRANDFATHER'S FAMILY                27

habits, the most just and kindly nature, and the
clearest views on all matters affecting the interests
of the numerous population who were his tenants.
My grandfather appears little as a politician in
the history of his time, but he sat in the House of
Commons for the city of Glasgow from 1744 to the
year 1761, when, becoming Marquis of Lome, he was
disqualified by a stupid law which, then prohibited
the eldest sons of Scotch peers from representing a
Scotch constituency. As my grandfather was only
just of age in 1744, and as the electors of Glasgow at
first objected to him on account of his youth, it would
appear that on further inquiry they had been satisfied
of his abilities and fitness. As Marquis of Lome he
obtained an English seat at Dover, but was raised to
the peerage in 1766 under the title of Baron Sun-
dridge. Sundridge is a village in Kent, near which his
          Lord    Frederick Campbell,    had bought
                  the title under which      sat in the
           It is
Iuncle,                                                  a resi
                                                         House
dence.
of Lords for many years, until in 1892 the Queen
was graciously pleased to add to the Scotch dukedom
Iof Argyll a dukedom of the United Kingdom under
the same title.   am not aware that my grandfather
ever spoke, or ever took any active part in the some
what confused politics of the years during which he
sat in the House of Commons. His mind lay in a
different direction, but he attended faithfully to the
interests of his constituency, at that time rising
rapidly in wealth and population.

  Four children, who survived,      were born            owfifeth--e
marriage of my grandfather with    his beautiful
two sons and two daughters. The eldest son, George,
succeeded his father as sixth Duke of Argyll in 1806,
and lived till 1841. The eldest girl (named Augusta)
married a Colonel Clavering, and died in 1831. The
second daughter, Charlotte, married John Campbell
of Shawfield and Islay. She had a numerous family
of nandsome daughters, and one son, long well known

28 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, n

as Campbell of Islay. The fourth and last child of
my grandparents was my father, John, who succeeded
to the dukedom on his brother's death in 1841, and
Idied in 1847. Before giving some particulars of my

father's life, which was part of my own, must say
a few words about his brother and his two sisters.
   Of my uncle, Duke
for thirty-five years,   IGeorge,   who held the     dukedom
                             have,   unfortunately,    nothing
very favourable to record. He was very handsome,
of dignified and most courteous manners, and naturally
of a kindly disposition. But in early life he fell into
companionship with the society which surrounded the
Prince of Wales, and from sheer carelessness, idleness,
and want of purpose in life, did nothing but dilapidate
his great inheritance. For many years he was never
able to live at Inveraray, and the estate was put under
trust. By a strange fate he did revisit Inveraray after
a long interval, in 1841, and there died instantaneously
Iwhen sitting at his dinner-table with a few friends and

relatives. never even saw him. During all the years
of my boyhood he lived always in England, whilst my
father lived quite as exclusively in Scotland. When
he did come down to his early home to die there, an
Iillness prevented my father from going to see him ;
so that     hIavheavneo  associations  with him   except  the
                         had of the    injury he  did to  the
experience
family estates.
The eldest sister, Augusta, was not happy in her
marriage, and, after having had three children, two
boys and a girl, she separated from her husband, and
lived and died in a retired villa on the Rosneath estate,

not far from my father's home. One of her two sons
entered the navy, and became an officer of noted
promise and ability. He served in an expedition in
1827 to explore the eastern coasts of Greenland, and
several names now recorded on the map of that most
inhospitable shore are the names given to them by
Douglas Clavering, in memory of places near his
mother's home upon the Gareloch. He was appointed

1828]  LADY CHARLOTTE CAMPBELL          29

in 1828 to the command of a ship of war called the
Redwing, and ordered to the West African Station.
From the moment of her leaving England that ship,
with her whole officers and crew, was never heard of

again. Some floating fragments, supposed to be part
of the Redwing, were said to have been picked up at
sea. They had on them marks of fire, and the sup
position was that she had been struck by lightning,
and that her magazine had been exploded, blowing
her to pieces. Douglas Clavering was my father's
Ifavourite nephew. The news that he was undoubtedly

lost is the earliest event of which have any memory.
Children of five years of age are incapable of grief
Ieven when death comes very near them.  had seen
Inothing of my cousin, but the effect saw upon my
father has never been effaced ; and to this day the
very word ' Redwing ' has to me inseparable associa
Itions with sorrow and disaster. Of Lady Augusta's

daughter, Charlotte, shall have more to say in con
nection with my own life.
   My father's other sister, Lady Charlotte, had a

happier and more distinguished history. In her girl
Ihood she was in no way remarkable for good looks,

and am in possession of a portrait of her by Opie,
the well-known Quaker artist, painted in 1789, when
she was about thirteen years of age, which certainly
does not suggest any extraordinary promise in that
direction. But as with great rapidity her growth
went on, she developed, like her mother, into being
one of the most beautiful women of her time. There
is an entry in the journal of Charles Greville which
gives at least the impression she made on the London
world. He narrates how, at a great dinner, embracing
several members of the Royal Family, a question was
raised who was the handsomest woman in society, and
Greville says the verdict was unanimous in favour of

ILady Charlotte Campbell. A fine picture of her by

Hoppner which possess is an ample justification for
this opinion. And yet her beauty was very different

30 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, n

from that of her mother. She was a larger and stouter
woman ; and the artist, who in this picture has painted
her in the character of Aurora, has had some difficulty
in making clouds dense enough to sustain the mag
nificent figure which is represented as dancing upon
them and scattering the roses of the dawn. Lady
Charlotte had strong literary and artistic tastes, and
great sweetness and charm of manner. She was,
therefore, a universal favourite, preserving even to a
very advanced age not a few remains of beauty, and
to the very last, all the old fascination and refine

ment. In her youth she was the friend and frequent
entertainer of the young Walter Scott, who, sitting
at her feet, used to repeat to her the Border Ballads
and some of his own early compositions of that
kind. When the Waverley Novels came out, and
speculation was so strangely baffled as to the per
sonality of ' the Great Unknown,' my father always
felt certain of the authorship of Scott, chiefly from
recognising in those novels verses and fragments of
poetry which he had heard Scott reciting to his sister
during his visits to her in Edinburgh.
   Lady Charlotte published several novels, which, if
they took no permanent place, were at least as good
as many others of the time. She wrote, also, in later
                                              in  STpuesncsaenryian' --stVaanlzloam, bornostah,e
y' eTahrrsee(1G83re3a) taSlaonncgtupaoreiems  of
Lavevna, and Camaldoli. This volume was published
by the great publishing house of Murray, and shows a
very considerable power of versification. The King
and Queen, William IV. and Queen Adelaide, and

Ialmost the whole Royal Family, were subscribers to

it. am bound to say, however, that the chief attrac
tion of the volume consisted in its illustrations. When
a widow well advanced in life, she had, much to the

dissatisfaction of her family, married an English clergy
man, of the name of Bury, whose chief attraction to
her lay, undoubtedly, in his really very remarkable
artistic gifts. His pencil contributed to her volume



1777-98]  MY FATHER THE SEVENTH DUKE              31

on the great Tuscan monastic sites a series of sepia
drawings, which would not be unworthy of some of

the greatest of the Old Masters. In accuracy of draw
ing, in poetry of feeling, and in chiaroscuro splendour
of light and shade, they are, to my eye, more beautiful
even than anything left by Turner. Lady Charlotte
survived her second husband many years, and died in
1860 at the age of eighty-five.
My father, afterwards seventh Duke of Argyll, was
born, the youngest of his family, in 1777. He was
brought up entirely at home until he was sent to
Oxford. Accustomed during all his boyhood to life
in the open air, to shooting, fishing, and all kinds of
Highland sports, he was wretched in the flat and
often swampy surroundings of the great English Uni
versity. He had no turn for the classical languages,
but had imbibed a very early taste for the physical
sciences, and especially for chemistry and mechanics.
But there was little encouragement for these in the
atmosphere of Oxford. He had brought with him an
old-fashioned but rather powerful form of air-gun,

with which he had been accustomed to shoot rabbits
in a wild island of Loch Awe close under the precipi
tous slopes of Ben Cruachan. But as there were no
rabbits in the quadrangle of Christ Church, he felt
impelled to practise occasionally on the flower-pots
which here and  there adorned the windows         obrfetahkeagDeosn--s.
From time to
caused no one   time  uhtotewrl--y    mysterious  inaccessible
                knew                on ledges of
Ielevations excited more curiosity than indignation,

until, suppose, suspicion having settled on the young
and notoriously idle Highlander, he found less difficulty
in persuading his father to allow him to enter the
army, and, accordingly, at the earliest possible age
he joined the Guards. One of the first services to
Iwhich he was called was the odious one of suppressing
the Irish Rebellion of 1798.        call it odious, both
because it certainly was so to him, with his inherited
affection and regard for Irishmen, and because the

32 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF AKGYLL [chap. U

rough and occasionally cruel work which was of
necessity involved was, from the first moment of the
outbreak, stimulated and rendered more savage by
the cold-blooded and hideous massacre perpetrated
by the rebels on the Bridge of Wexford. The worst

orgies of the French Revolution, of which it was,
indeed, nothing but a horrible imitation, seemed to
be reproduced by a hitherto peaceful population, and
threatened to be repeated all over Ireland, wherever
the infection of its ferocious passions had found

admission.

It  The  Rebellion   of 1798  was not a   Catholic    Rebellion.
    was  not even   an Irish  Rebellion.              essentially
                                           It was
a Jacobin Rebellion. Its typical representative was
not Lord Edward Fitzgerald, the young enthusiast
for the restoration of a national independence which
never had existed. The type-man was Wolfe Tone,
the unscrupulous villain who, before he became a
rebel, had twice offered to sell himself to the British
Government if they would commission him as a
privateer and buccaneer to plunder the Catholic
churches and towns on the Spanish Main, and who
was not less willing to sell his own country to the
French Directory, if only he could wreak his vengeance
on England and on her great Minister, Mr. Pitt. The
suppression of the Irish Rebellion was, therefore, a
work both of necessity and of mercy, however painful
the process may have been in particular affairs.
  IMy father never dwelt on this episode of his life.

Only one anecdote do recollect his telling, as a
curious illustration of the effect upon men of the near
prospect of death, as compared with the effect of an
unexpected escape. A band of rebels had been sur
rounded and caught in  a barn with        Iat  large  number of
pikes concealed under  some hay.                was   impossible

to pardon men whose immediate purpose so clearly
was to engage in the bloody work of the Rebellion.
On the other hand, it was not thought necessary or
expedient to hang the whole of them. Some four or

1803] MY FATHER IN FRANCE                                       33

five only were executed, and the selection of them
was determined by lot. My father used to relate
that those who drew the death lots remained perfectly
calm, whilst those who drew the lots for fife were

violently agitated.

  In 1799 my father was elected member for his native
county of Argyll, and held that seat in Parliament till

1822.                     after his entry into Parliament --in 1802

-- Tthheregereyaeteasrst  misfortune which can befall a man befell
Imy father. He made an unhappy marriage. know
Inothing of the details. only know that before the end
     tmheistyaekaer--henoht aodnldyisincosvpeirreitds,  and  hinadhesaultffhe--redandfrohmis
of                                                      but
his
family and friends advised him to go abroad. His wife,
who was Miss Campbell of Fairfield, died in 1818.
    The short Peace of Amiens in 1803 was the occasion
     a great rush of English visitors to the Continent.
of   had been practically inaccessible to them since

It
the beginning of the Revolutionary War, and the
theatre of so many terrible and extraordinary events
exerted an irresistible attraction. My grandfather
therefore seized the opportunity to send his son
abroad, with the companionship of a medical friend
of the name of Robertson, a man of most amiable
character, of considerable scientific attainments, and

Iof great charm of countenance and manners. Of this

journey am in possession of a careful journal. They
left England on the 16th February, 1803, and went at
once to Paris, where Napoleon Bonaparte had estab
lished himself as ruler of France under the ridiculous
title of First Consul -- according to that childish echo
of old Roman titles by which the ears of French demo
crats were at that time tickled and befooled. Pro
vided as he was with introductions to the best people

in Paris, my father was anxious to see the men whose
names had become so famous. The first sketch he
gives is of one of the most famous, and of one who
survived almost all his contemporaries, Talleyrand.
vol. i.
                                                             3

34 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, u

On the 6th March Bonaparte was to have a review
of troops in front of the Tuileries, and thereafter to
hold a levee at which strangers could be presented.

But it was a necessary preliminary that they should
have been presented first to the Foreign Minister. On
the previous day, therefore, March 5th, our Ambas
sador at Paris, Lord Whitworth, took my father to be
presented to Talleyrand.   shoMrt ybufat thgerra'ps hidce:sc'rMipotinosnieuorf
that celebrated man is
ITalleyrand is the most disgusting-looking individual
   ever saw. His complexion is that of a corpse con
siderably advanced in a state of corruption. His feet
are distorted in every possible direction. His having
learned to walk steadily with such wretched materials
is a proof that he is a man of considerable abilities.'
Next day, March 6th, my father went in the morning
with Lady Cholmondeley and an English party to one
of the lower windows of the Tuileries, which was a very
favourable position  for    seeing the             review    which was to
precede the levee.                                 Consul    mounted his
                        '  The First

Ihorse and rode to the right of the line, passing close to

the window at which was placed. He was dressed in
a blue coat with broad white facings, white pantaloons,
paenrdfemctliylitaprlyainb--oowtsi.thoHuits   hat   was      cocked one, but
                                             any   lace   a  ornament what
                                                         or
ever. After reviewing all the troops, he returned to the
Great Gate of the Palace, and remained on horseback

surrounded by his Generals, delivering muskets and
sabres of honour to several soldiers who had distin
guished themselves in various actions. During this
period all the troops marched past him and saluted
him.'
   The levee was held later in the day, and is thus

described in my father's journal : ' At three o'clock all
the Foreign Ministers with the persons they had to
               athdrmeietteCdo. nsuAlscirsctloeodwasatfortmheedfirroeupnladceth--e
present  were
room.    The
Bonaparte in the middle, Cambaceres on his right, and
Le Brun on his left. As soon as all the people were

1803] NAPOLEON BONAPARTE                                          35

assembled, Bonaparte began to go round the circle,
speaking to several persons. When he came to Lord
Whitworth (the British Ambassador), he stopped, and
continued speaking to him some time, after which Lord
Whitworth presented us, the other Englishmen, to
him. He then proceeded round the circle, and returned
Ithe same way, again talking to Lord Whitworth.

During this time stood close to him, and had a very
good opportunity of examining his countenance. His
hair is straight, of a dark brown colour and scarcely
reaching the cape of his coat, his forehead straight, but
the brow projecting more than is common. His nose
is large and prominent, and forms a gentle curve from
the forehead to the point. The upper lip is short, and
its edge rather turned up. The under lip does not pro
ject nearly so far as the upper. The chin, rather long,
projects considerably at the end. His eyes are light
gray. He has not much eyebrow. His complexion is
uncommonly sallow. His limbs are small, but neatly
made. His stature does not exceed 5 foot 6 inches.
His countenance varies astonishingly in its expression,
and when he laughs or smiles is very agreeable and
engaging. His teeth are fine, but he does not show
them much. When he had spoken to as many persons
as he chose, he again placed himself between Camba-
ceres and Le Brun, and made three bows, as a signal
Ifor our departure.'

      may add to this short written description that in
conversation my father used to express himself with
less restraint in respect to the countenance of Bona
parte. He used to say that his smile was the most
beautiful he ever saw. Whether from the fascination
he had felt, or from the momentous interest which
attached at that time to one who was undoubtedly the
foremost man in Europe, my father had arranged to
attend another levee  laotferth--eonFirMstarCcohns1u3l twh.hichA
take place a week                                                 was to
                                                                   slight
indisposition led to his giving up this intention,
an accident which he never ceased to regret, as he

                          3--2

36 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF AKGYLL [chap, n

thereby missed being witness of a scene which became
historical. Our negotiations with France in respect
to the fulfilment of the Treaty of Amiens had then
been going on for some time. The imperious tone
of the First Consul, particularly in respect to our
evacuation of the island of Malta, together with the
development of his aggressive ambition in other parts of
Europe, were leading every day to greater and greater
estrangement. Two days after my father had been so
III.fascinated by Bonaparte's smile, on the 8th of March,
George              sent a message to his Parliament to ask for
armaments as only too likely to be needed. On this
news reaching Paris, Bonaparte was much incensed,
and had a long interview with Lord Whitworth, in
which he raged and scolded for two hours, without
allowing Lord Whitworth to get a word in edgeways.
But this was not the worst. A few days later, on the
occasion of his levee on the 13th March, Bonaparte
either was, or pretended to be, in a rage. Never
throughout his life a gentleman in his feelings or con
duct, he now outraged a ceremony and a time of
courtesy by coming up to Lord Whitworth and address
ing him in the loudest tones of anger, and even with
gestures which suggested the possibility of an assault.
Lord Whitworth was a tall, handsome man with great
dignity of manner. He stood perfectly unmoved
hwihmil--st ntohwe  Little Corporal raged and fumed beneath

                    and then saying a few conciliatory words,
as to the desire of his Government to secure an
honourable peace. Yet so violent was the demeanour
of Bonaparte that Lord Whitworth was compelled to
think what he ought to do with his sword, if in his
person the Majesty of England was to be publicly
insulted by an actual assault.
My father left Paris on the 24th of March without
apparently having heard of these scenes with the First
Consul, and without, assuredly, any forecast of the
experience he was himself about to have of the violence

of the character which lay in ambush behind his bewitch

1803]          MY FATHER IN GENEVA                      37

ing smile. The two travellers posted to Geneva, and on
the 30th they were enchanted by that unequalled view
of the Leman Lake below, and the range of Mont Blanc
above, which at a sudden turn of the road on the
summit of the Jura used to burst like a vision of glory
on all who took a route which is now superseded and

deserted. At Geneva a warm welcome was given to
them by the younger De Saussure, son of the illustrious
Swiss geologist and physical philosopher, who first
investigated the structure and geology of the Alps, and
has left an immortal name in the history of science.
His son, although he had not his father's genius, was
also eminent, especially as a chemist. My grandmother
had wisely engaged him to be travelling tutor to her
young son Douglas, Duke of Hamilton, when he made
the usual grand Continental tour. De Saussure was
delighted to receive the youngest brother of his former
pupil, and at once invited him and Robertson to lodge
in his house.

Nothing could have been better for my father than
the society and the surroundings in which he was now
placed. Reserved as his private journal is, it indicates
that he was then under the shadow of a trouble which
saddened his spirit. Not only the glorious scenery of
the Genevan Lake, but the society into which he
entered, were both admirably fitted to restore the
joy of life. The conversation of De Saussure must
have helped that love of physical science to which he
was naturally inclined, and which became one of his
greatest resources in later life. But the society of
Geneva at that time had other elements of the highest
interest. Soon after their arrival he and his friend
Robertson were introduced to Madame de Stael, and
acquaintance with her soon ripened into intimacy.
My father's description of this celebrated woman is as
graphic as his description of  her   --enWeme ywearned  persecutor
                                                        introduced
Napoleon Bonaparte. ' A p.      16.

to Madame de Stael. Her manners are unaffected, and
her conversation entertaining. She appears to be near

38 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DTJKES OF ARGYLL [chap, u
forty. Her eyes are dark and expressive, her features
coarse, and her person tolerably good. She invited
us to supper on Monday next.'

  From this date forwards till their departure from

Switzerland, the house of Madame de Stael was the
constant resort of my father and of his friend Robert
son. The charms of her society evidently grew upon
them, and at all her parties, of whatever kind, and
very often when she had no party at all, they were
her constant and favourite guests. My father used
always to say that she was evidently a good deal
in love with Dr. Robertson, whose good looks, grace
ful manners, and charming voice were well calcu
lated to attract her well-known susceptibilities. Soon
after their friendship began, Robertson attacked her
one evening for having said in one of her books that
Scottish music was ' destitute of interest.' She
denied having said so, and professed to like Scottish
music much. The dispute ended in a bet, she inviting
them to dine a few days later, for the settlement of the
affair. On referring to her book, Robertson found her
words to be ' comme la musique des Ecossais qui com-
posent des airs dont la parfaite harmonie eloigne tout
critique sans captiver profonddment Vinteret? Of course,
 this is a very different thing from Robertson's quota
 tion. When they met again, Madame de Stael said

that she might have cavilled about the word ' pro

 fondement,' but that she would prefer to confess having
 been in the wrong, ' and to publish a new edition

Dahmur.menRodouebrdeedrt,asnondy.e'tcorsTroehcitssehdpalerbpaysaaLnnotdrbditsoJoofhrunanilalCenrasymw--eprbaseoblllgeo--aondids-

 doubtless a specimen of one at least of the character
 istics of those conversational powers which attracted
 many of the most distinguished men in Europe at that
 time. Like other very vivacious women with highly
 strung susceptibilities of character, Madame de Stael
 seems to have been much dependent on the sympathy
 of those with whom she was conversing. My father

1803]  MADAME DE STAEL  39

noticed that her dinner-parties were comparatively dull.
This appears to have been largely due to the fact that,
from his rank and his being a stranger, he always was
seated next to her at dinner, where his sadness and
reserve affected the spirits of his hostess. She told
Robertson, with whom she was more familiar, that she
was conscious of a depressing influence from what

she called my father's mauvaise honte. At suppers,

however, and at what we should now call garden-
parties, among the cheerful villas around Geneva, and
amidst the rich vegetation of advancing spring in that
lovely country, my father continued more and more
to enjoy the brilliant society of Madame de Stael and
of the wide circle of which she was the centre. He
speaks with admiration in his journal of her dramatic
powers as an actress in Racine's play of ' Phedre,' and
the frequency with which he closed his evenings at her
house, after other parties had broken up, shows how
completely the spell of her genius had been cast upon

him.

   On the 18th of May Madame de Stael sent to her
two friends the earliest intimation that had reached
her of the rupture of the negotiations between France
and England, and the departure of Lord Whitworth
from Paris. Nobody at that moment could expect, or
even dream of, the disgraceful act of vengeance which
Bonaparte was about to wreak on private travellers
from England who could be caught in France. My
father and Dr. Robertson therefore continued to enjoy
their life at Geneva, with excursions to Lausanne,
Yverdon, on the beautiful Lake of Neuchatel, and
other parts of Switzerland.

  On returning from one of these on May 19th, and
repairing as usual to the house of Madame de Stael,
they found her engaged with a children's ball ; and
she explained to them that she had intended to finish
her entertainment with a dance for the older genera
tion ; but, on consideration, she thought it better not,
as she did not know whether the First Consul might

40 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, n

not consider it an insult to himself, as a rejoicing over
the renewed war with England. This scornful joke
on the meanness of Bonaparte is significant, not only
of what she already knew of his character from per
sonal experience, but also, no doubt, of the frequent
sayings which, from time to time, were sure to be re
peated, and which account in some degree for the
increasing and unmanly animosity with which he pur
sued the illustrious authoress. On the 26th of May
my father heard of letters-of-marque having been
issued by the British Government, and next day he

heard of the retaliatory step taken by Napoleon in
ordering the arrest of all Englishmen in France. He
awSnaaudssstuhRreoenb, eFrwrteshononchadatvetisreroidtnocrtehye--mcoenatsroluyllteenadevxetthmGeeoirnrneivfnragie--,nbdwehfoiDcrehe
the mail from Paris could bring the actual order for
arrest. Their flight from Geneva being determined
on, they repaired to Madame de Stael to tell her of
their course. They found her receiving a visit from
a French member of the Council of Geneva, from
whom they wished, of course, to conceal their com
munication. My father accordingly undertook to
engage the Councillor in conversation in French, whilst
Robertson was to speak to Madame de Stael in English.
My father narrates in his journal how he was amused
by Madame de Stael's evident agitation and annoy
ance, wishing on the one hand that her friends should
escape, but equally wishing, on the other hand, to
keep Robertson's society. So evident was Madame
de Stael's perturbation, that my father was afraid the
French Councillor would see it, and suspect that some
thing was wrong. However, he luckily had only one
eye, and only saw enough to  understand  inthteartruhpitsedtet--e-
a-tete with the hostess was  hopelessly
whereupon he took his leave. The result of the con
sultation with Madame de Stael was that she advised
her friends to go no further than Coppet, her father's
famous villa, a few miles from Geneva, but within the

1803] AN ADVENTURE IN SWITZERLAND                          41

Swiss frontier. Their flight took place on the morning
of May 28th. On the 30th Madame de Stael followed
them to Coppet, bringing the news that the order for
the arrest of the English had been actually received at

Geneva.
On the 4th June my father and Robertson left
Coppet for Lausanne, to which place Madame de
Stael followed them on the 6th. From this date to
the 30th of June they moved about with Madame de
Stael to various places of beauty and interest in the
Pays de Vaud. On the 30th Madame de Stael went
home, and my father and his friend continued till
the 11th July to travel about the country. On
that day they had reached Baden, a small watering-
place within a few miles of the Rhine frontier. They
had been advised, on account of the unscrupulous
violence of Bonaparte, to get out of Switzerland as
soon as they could.

  On the morning of the 12th July my father had
slept unusually long, and at ten o'clock he was sur
prised by Robertson coming into his room and telling
him that a French officer had just arrested him, and
that, under a threat of the alternative of a close con
finement, he (Robertson) had at once given his parole.
Robertson advised my father to take the same course.
The officer had asked where his companion was, and
Robertson had replied that he was then out, but
would certainly be found later in the day if the officer
called again. My father  paatroolnec--e  told  Robertson   that
he would never give his                  that  even if he
                                                           were
made prisoner he would never cease to try to escape.
Robertson told him that, if so, he would be sent to
confinement in a fortress, and urged him not to incur
so disagreeable an alternative. On my father posi
tively refusing to give his parole, Robertson asked him
what, then, would he do ? as the French officer would
certainly return early to effect his arrest. My father
replied that he would get up at once and think over
the situation.

42 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, h

  It so happened that a Swiss lady, who was gover

ness to Lady Charlotte Campbell's children, was
at that time on a visit to her own home, and had
accepted the invitation of my father to accompany
him and Robertson on their return journey to Eng
land. She had joined them a few days before, and
was at that moment in the same hotel. This lady,
Mademoiselle de la Chaux, was a woman of great
vivacity and character, much valued as a friend and
companion, not only by Lady Charlotte, but by all
her family. Hearing from Robertson of the arrest
which had fallen on him, and was impending over my
father, she, with a woman's ready wit, sent him a
message that if he would consent to dress in woman's
clothes, and pass himself off as her maid, she thought
she could probably get him across the frontier into
Germany. My father jumped at the idea. No time
was to be lost. So Mademoiselle de la Chaux brought
into his room all the necessary garments, and in a few
minutes my father was duly habited as a young
woman, and acted the part of fille de chambre to
his deliverer. Her plan was to drive out in a car
riage on a road towards the Rhine till they came to
some hills covered with forest. He was then to get
out of the carriage and conceal himself in the woods
till the evening. Mademoiselle de la Chaux was then
to return to the hotel, as from a drive, and another
carriage was to be ordered, when the shades of evening
might facilitate escape from any probable detection.
On arriving at the foot of the hills where my father
was concealed, she was to make her postilion wind his
horn. This was to be the signal for him to emerge
from the woods and join the carriage.

   This plan was carried into effect with perfect success.
My father, although then almost twenty-six years of
age, was singularly youthful in appearance. He had
fine and delicate features, much resembling those of his
beautiful mother, and a stature of only 5 feet 6 inches.
He passed through the passages of the hotel without

1803] MY FATHER'S ESCAPE                                         43

the least suspicion, and mounted the rumble of the

carriage.
About three miles out of Baden, at a solitary part
of the road leading to Schaffhausen, he dismounted,
                       irnemthaeintehdickallwodoadys--whhaiclfh  covered
and  was at once safe                                            starved,
the  hills. There he

since he had had no time to take breakfast or to provide
any food for the day. Restive under the embarrass
ment of petticoats in walking up a steep hill, he had
gathered them well up under his arm, when, at a
turn of the path, he saw a group of charcoal-burners
very near him. Fortunately, the rapid readjustment
of his garments by simple gravitation was not per
ceived, and he proceeded unmolested. The sound of
Mademoiselle de la Chaux's postilion-horn came none
too soon, and running down the hill he joined her
carriage, and they drove without interruption to the

Rhine. At that frontier there was a bridge to cross,

and a French sentry was stationed at it. As it was,
of course, now dark, he held up a lantern to my father's
face before allowing the carriage to pass on. But not
detecting anything to lead him to doubt the sex which
had been assumed, he was satisfied with a passing
glance, and in a few minutes my father's escape had
been effected. He remained some days in the neigh
bourhood of the Rhine, hoping that Robertson might
be released. But hearing that this was improbable,
he determined to make his way to Vienna, by the
line of march soon afterwards followed by Bonaparte
in his famous dash across Europe from the Camp of
Boulogne, when his project of the invasion of England

had broken down.

  At Ulm he overtook a French General and his wife
whom he had met in Switzerland, and they offered
him a place in the boat which they had hired to
carry them down the Danube to Vienna. This was
then a six days' journey, floating down the rapid
current of the Danube at from six to eight miles an

hour. At Vienna Robertson did rejoin him. General

44 FIFTH AND SEVENTH DUKES OF ARGYLL [chap, n

(afterwards the famous Marshal) Ney, who had ordered
my father's arrest in Switzerland, was very angry
when he heard of his escape, because in his ignorance
he imagined that a ' Lord ' and a member of the
British Parliament would be an important prize.
Finding that Robertson was only what he called un
pauvre medecin, he let him go, as not being worth
detention. After a short stay in Vienna, my father
and Robertson travelled home by Dresden, Berlin,
and the Low Country, to England, where they arrived
early in September.
My father now resumed his ordinary life in London
as a member of Parliament and an officer in the

Guards. In 1809, however, the corps to which he
was attached was one of those sent on the splendid
but abortive and inglorious                to Walcheren,
which was intended for the   expedition
                             capture of    Antwerp. In
that expedition he was for the first time under fire,
and did not escape from the Walcheren fever, which
is said to have carried off, before the return of the
troops, about 7,000 men. He has often told me that
he first felt relief from the feverish     awtettacdkitacfhte'r--aa
night's sleep in what he called ' a
prescription, certainly, on which no medical man would
venture.

During a great part of the ten years which elapsed
between my father's return from Walcheren and the
year 1822, when he resigned his seat for the county of
Argyll, his life was one of much trouble.
There are, as we have seen, several indications in
his journal that his young life had been saddened.
Madame de Stael had noticed the effects, though
mistaking the cause. But another lady in Switzer
land, to whom, perhaps, he had spoken more
freely in the frequent social meetings in Geneva, had
penetrated deeper. She told him that she had herself
once been under the influence of a gloomy sorrow,
which destroyed all the enjoyments of life. She ex
horted him to struggle against it, by forcing himself to

1816]  ARDENCAPLE                                         45

take an interest in a variety of subjects, and in Nature.
He told her that this was exactly what he was then
doing, but theretofore with little success.
The day after my father's escape across the frontier,
his friend Robertson wrote to him a most interesting
and affectionate letter, from which it is plain that he
saw in his friend a deeply wounded heart. He said
that he himself felt as if he had caught the contagion
of my father's ' extravagant susceptibility,' and
uCrognetinntelnyt.advIisehdavehimno  to prolong his stay  upon the
                                     other record of the  details of
his life after his return than that in 1816 a haven of
rest was provided for him by the death of his uncle,
Lord Frederick Campbell, who left to him a small
estate on the Firth of Clyde, called Ardencaple.
Lord Frederick had bought this estate a good many
years before from the Macaulay family, whose seat it

had been for many generations. In no long time death
relieved my father of his domestic embarrassments, and
the beginnings of a more fortunate attachment ushered
in the dawn of a happier life.

                             CHAPTER III

                                     1816-28

                             ARDENCAPLE

IAs am here entering on the horizon in which my
Iown life began, and from which much of its colouring

has been derived, must say something of the physical
and moral landscapes which were the surroundings of

my childhood and youth. In many parts of Scotland
the dividing line between the Celtic Highlands and
the Lowlands is well marked. The range of the Gram
pians generally presents a sudden mountain frontier
rising over a comparatively level country, or over lower
hills of quite another aspect. This frontier is more or
less distinct all the way from Stirling to Inverness.
But nowhere is this great natural geographical division
more striking than on the estuary of the Firth of Clyde,
from a point just opposite to the roadstead and town
of Greenock. Looking from that point all round the
north-western and western horizon, the typical High
land hills fall steeply to the water's edge, forming an
amphitheatre of mountain outline against the sky.
Although nowhere within sight attaining any very
great elevation, they have a striking effect from the
general ruggedness of their surfaces and the broken
character of their tops. There are higher mountains
      aCnoyunotfryth--emas,  in some parts of   what is  called  the
than                           for example,    in the    county   of
Low
Dumfries. But the general aspect is wholly different.
The barrier of the Celtic Highlands betrays at once to
the eye of a geologist the presence of the ancient meta-
morphic or crystalline rocks ; and the frontage they

1816-23]      POSITION OF ARDENCAPLE                                   47

present to the Firth of Clyde is the frontage of a range
which extends without any interruption to the north-
north-west from that line to the borders of Caithness
and Sutherland. All along that great distance a line
could be drawn passing over the hills in front of
Greenock, and terminating at Ben Alisky in Caithness,
or at Cape Wrath in Sutherland,                    and would
cross any plain, or even any broad                                     never
                                                   valley. It          would

cross only a  continuous                  series of steep ridges, and of
narrow glens                   them occupied by arms of
              --some of        strips of cultivated land.              the

sea, others by narrow                                                   It
results from these conditions of physical geography
that those who live on the slopes which fall into the
Firth of Clyde have two very different kinds of natural
beauty to enjoy. Below them and in front of them
they have, not a river which, if of navigable size, is
always muddy, but a wide yet sheltered inlet of the
ocean, with its tides, its seaweeds, and its margins of
boulder or of rock ; whilst behind them, and just over
a ridge very near above them, they may step into some
of the wildest and loneliest Highland glens.
    Such exactly was the position of my father's property
of                             Itscelonoekse--d thdeowrnoaodnsteoaned  of the busiest
of  Ardencaple.                                                        of Greenock,
    the Lowland
full of life and movement, breathing of ' ships, colonies,
and commerce.' Yet immediately behind, over the
crest of its own hill, there lay the deep and steep Glen-
fruin, in which one of the very last and bloodiest of
cstleapns-f--ighhtasrdtloyoka             late as  --thoevyeerarth1e60s3u. mmAitfeowf
                               place, so    yards
                                hundred

the ridge towards the north, take us as completely out

of sight of the Lowlands as if we were in another
country. Very steep green mountain-sides, purely
pastoral, shut out all the sights and sounds of human
life, and echo nothing but the bleating of sheep and the
cry of a startled grouse. The estate of Ardencaple

stretched along the winding shores of the Firth of Clyde
for about a mile.
gate, the Firth is             foIumr mmeidleisatewlyideo--ppaosspitaecet,heneevaesrttehren

48          ARDENCAPLE                         [chap, hi

less, across which in certain states of the atmosphere
the noise of hammers comes with great distinctness
from the shipbuilding yards of Greenock. But west
ward the shore of Ardencaple soon passes behind the
sheltering promontory of Rosneath, which narrows the
waters to half a mile, and leaves a lovely margin to the
narrow entrance of the long arm of the sea called the
Gareloch. The boundaries of the estate run straight
up to the top of the nearest crest, where, however, it
narrows very much, having a moor of fine old heather
not above 300 yards broad.

   One special feature of the whole estuary of the
Clyde was conspicuous at Ardencaple. That feature
is an ' old coast-line ' which marks a higher level at
which the sea used to stand, and must have stood for

ages, about from 30 to 60 feet above the present level
of the sea. This old coast-line is marked by a steep
bank, sometimes rocky, with caves eaten out by the
waves, or with projecting ledges undercut by passing
sheets of ice. The distance at which this bank stands
back from the present line of shore depends, of course,
on the contours of the land. When those contours are

steep, the distance is often very small ; where they are
gentle and gradual, there may be large and nearly level
fields separating the old from the present coast-line.

In the Middle Ages all sudden declivities were more or

less valuable for the purposes of defence, and fortified
houses were often built upon the top of this line of

steeps.

   So it was with the old castle of the Clan Macaulay.
One large field nearly 200 yards broad stood between
the castle  and the sea.  On both sides -- to
            same line of  bank was covered     east and
west--the                                      with old

trees, the home of an immense rookery. On the
top of the bank there was another nearly level
plateau of arable fields stretching to the foot of the
mountain slope. On that slope there was a fine old
wood, principally of oak, but with groups of beech,
Scots fir, ash, and some other kinds of trees. Two

1810] THE CLYDE     49

small but rapid and clear streams-- locally called burns
--came, one from each side of the estate, and, winding

through little ravines, united in an outlet towards its
western boundary. Above the wood there was a very
large field of somewhat wild and rough pasture, much
invaded, however, by a perfect forest of very old and
almost arboreal bushes of whin or gorse, whose sheets
of golden bloom shone in spring above the late and
reluctant budding of the oaks. From every part of
this field there was a splendid view of the whole
estuary of the Clyde, from a point near Dumbarton
Castle on the east to the Argyllshire mountains on the
west, and embracing the peaks of Arran far away on
the southern horizon. The beautiful promontory of
Rosneath lay at the spectator's feet, with its fine woods
and lawns, and its little sheltered bays, and its stately
Italian portico of lofty red sandstone columns. Above
that large expanse of wild pasture my father planted
a large area with larch and spruce fir, which in my
earliest memory had already attained a size so consider
able that, from below, the hill seemed covered with wood.
Above that wood, again, lay the moor, on which it was
always possible to get a few brace of grouse, and from
which the view was still more extensive to the east, and
looked into the valley which is occupied by the waters
of Loch Lomond, although the lake itself was not
visible, owing to some woods and intervening eminences.
The old Castle of Ardencaple had been built on
the crest of the old coast-line, at a point where
it was very steep and formed a projecting curve,
so that the walls could have the benefit of a natural
defence on two sides. On the third side, towards the

level plateau, there were doubtless outworks of defence,
which had been levelled when times of security had
come, and of which no signs remained on a smooth grass
lawn from a period long before my father's acquisition
of the estate. The lower part of the walls was of im
mense thickness, dating, it is said, from the thirteenth
century. On the top of these walls a modern house had
vol. i.
                 4

50            ARDENCAPLE                     [CHAP. Ill

been built, of the usual old Scottish-French architecture,

which was universal in Scotland during the eighteenth
century, and of which the finer specimens are amongst
the most beautiful examples of architecture  iInt
country. This, however, Ardencaple was not.                  the
                                                             had

never been large or imposing, and the more modern
parts were simple and unadorned. But the southern
front, facing the sea, was picturesque, and included some
variety of wall, of towers, and of turrets. The accom
modation was limited, but a pleasant library looked
inland over the lawn and to the wooded hill ; there

was a long,   narrow   drawing-room,  paassacgoem--foarltmabolset
dining-room,  and a   long, narrow
another room. The Castle was surrounded by trees on
all sides but one, the trees growing from the bottom of
the old sea-bank, and the tops of their branches being
little above the level of the roof. Above the narrow
drawing-room my father had made a charming work
shop, fitted up with all sorts of lathes for turning, and
nests of drawers for the appropriate tools, with a store,
not far off, of elephant tusks and of rare and beautiful
ornamental woods, such as could be combined with
work in ivory and in metals. Large dormer-windows
let in abundant light and dominated the Firth of Clyde.
   As almost  the whole estate  bweains ginlemt ytofaatheter'nsanotw--n
hands-- only  one small farm
it was large and varied enough to give him plenty
otthifmeoec.tcrouupIbtalteiwosans,o, fwinliditfheeoe--du,tsiptbueeariftneegcdtsoianslaaraghebaevaaesunttoifoufel nrgecrsootsusnfrtohrmyis,
with only a very few country neighbours, and otherwise

Ia seclusion as complete as he might wish to make it.
   But must now turn to that other of the two sources
of human life, from which it has been observed men
often derive not a few of the most determining elements
of their nature. Motherhood is quite as powerful as
fatherhood in the transmission of  cIhfartahcetreer,beanidn  not
unfrequently it is more powerful.                            the

influence of parentage any advantage from variety

1816] MY MOTHER                                                           51

and the absence of even the slightest consanguinity,
the union of my parents must, so far as this goes,
have had a happy influence on their children. Within
the limits of a common country, they came from the
most opposite directions of the compass, representing
even such varieties of race as can still be traced in
our community of origins so fortunately mixed.
Whether the name Campbell be of Celtic or of Norman
origin has been vehemently disputed, but there can
be no   deoleumbtentht--atatnheelleinmeeangte  of  my family had a large
Celtic                                         so  recently strengthened
and renewed from the Irish stock of my beautiful
grandmother, Elizabeth Gunning. Old historic families
on the Continent have been, both physically and
politically, weakened by superstitious usages adverse
to the union of class with class. But this, fortunately,
has never been the curse of society in the British
Isles. The oldest stocks have been constantly re
newed and reinforced by fresh blood from families
unknown to fame, and flavoured, very often, by as
much of racial difference in origin as can be said to
be distinguishable in our great amalgam.
My father was certainly in many indefinable char
acteristics a Highlander, modified by both Irish and
--Enagslischertbalionoldy.    My mother was a Miss              Joan Glassell
                            of a thoroughly Lowland
                                                                stock, which,

however, had never attained to eminence. Several of
the family went to the American colonies and settled
in Virginia, where their descendants abound at the
present day. Her father was a certain John Glassell,
who in the eighteenth century bought the small
landed   easntatiencoomf eLoonfgnuipdwdaryrd, sinoEf a£s1t,5L0o0thaiayne, arw--hirceh
yielded

presenting at the                date of  hisHipsurwchifaes--e   a  sum of at
                                                                my    maternal
gleraasnt dmdootuhbelre--twheas  amount.  Brown of Coulston, whose
                                  a Miss
sister married the ninth Earl of Dalhousie, and through
whom the great Marquis of Dalhousie, the Governor-
General of India, was my cousin.

                                                                    4--2

52                 ARDENCAPLE                       [chap, m

chBildo--thlemayvinmgohtheer rt'hs ephaeriernestss  died whilst she was yet a
                                                    of the Longniddry estate,
and very much alone in the world. Her guardians sent
her to Edinburgh to be educated under the care of
Mrs. Grant of Laggan, at that time a well-known, if
not even a celebrated, woman. Her ' Letters from
the Mountains ' had acquired for her a very con
siderable literary reputation, and the story of her
life has been, even in recent years, told in an inter
esting memoir published in America. Among the
young women with whose instruction she was charged,
my mother soon took a high place, as distinguished
by the vivacity of her mind and by her charms of
conversation. Mrs. Grant spoke and wrote of her to
friends in terms which made them anxious to secure

her acquaintance. Amongst Mrs. Grant's oldest
friends were the Smiths of Jordanhill, a family con
nected with the commerce of Glasgow, by whom an
estate to the west of that city had been purchased a
good many years before. This was the link by which
my father and mother were first brought together.

   In the last year of my grandfather's life, early in
1806, when he was living at the old Castle of Ros-
neath, it took fire, and the greater part of it was
                      But a portion
dItestsrotoyoedd.  on the top of     of the building was saved.
                                     a very steep bank rising
above a little bay of the sea, and close to the
point which may be considered as the opening of the
Gareloch. As my uncle very foolishly began to build
a new Italian palazzo about a hundred yards further
inland from the shore, and as the great expenditure

he lavished on this house, at a time when everything
was very costly, soon plunged him into embarrassment,
the remains of the old castle were roughly fitted up
as a temporary residence, and were finally let to
anyone who wanted a place in one of the loveliest
spots in Scotland, with peculiar charms of quietness
and cheerfulness, together with great seclusion. As
Mr. Smith of Jordanhill had taken to yachting, tho

                MISS O'NIEL                            53

place exactly suited him, and he became its tenant
in 1812. The two castles of Ardencaple and Ros-
neath were exactly opposite each other, and only
separated by a narrow strait which could be crossed
in a rowing-boat in little more than ten minutes ; my
father and Mr. Smith were thus very near neighbours,
and an intimate and an attached friendship was soon
established between them.
                                                        with Mr. Smith
   Miss  Glassell was a     wfahvoomuriItecagnuneostt  mention without
and his  wife, a woman

saying that her beautiful and spiritual countenance is
one of the most treasured memories of my early life.

My father was not insensible to the attractions which
seem to have arrested the attention and secured the
affections of all who came within access to them. These

attractions did not depend on feature or on form. My
Imother was not a beautiful woman in any definable
sense.   have a fine picture of her by a Glasgow

artist of the name of Milliship, who died young, but
whose art would have assuredly raised him, if he
had lived, to great distinction. My mother's features
       small.   But the     great characteristic       boluf eh--erlarfagcee,
were  her eyes  -- eyes of   a fine clear violet
was
tender, full of an earnest and inquiring gaze. She
was highly intellectual, fond of poetry, lively and
specially enthusiastic in her admirations. On seeing
the famous tragedienne, Miss O'Niel, performing the
part of Juliet, my mother was so carried away by her
emotions that she at once bought a diamond ring, and
sent it anonymously to the object of her enthusiasm.
Miss O'Niel, concluding or suspecting that it came
from a man, never wore it until she discovered the
real donor, and then wore it for the rest of her long
Ilife as Lady Beecher, in loving memory of her young
friend.  have this anecdote from Lady Beecher
herself, in the course of an inherited friendship with
Ithat lady, which ended only with her death at a very
advanced age.   have no means of giving a closer
description of my mother's character and disposition

54                   ARDENCAPLE                         [chap, m

than a few such anecdotes as this, with the important
exception, however, of a large number of her own
letters.
The Smiths of Jordanhill invited my mother to
accompany them on a visit to Rome, and for some
time afterwards she kept up a more or less continuous
correspondence with my father, before their mutual
attraction had come to an engagement. Her letters
are full of the most lively and varied interest in Nature
and in Art, and show great power of expression, and
Ian enthusiastic and poetic temperament. In this she
differed wholly from my father.  never heard him

quote or refer to a line of poetry, except three cele
brated lines from ' Hamlet ' which embody in words of
characteristic power and beauty a precept of practical
wisdom in the affairs of life, of which my father had
only too great occasion to observe the truth. These
lines are indeed a curious example of the power of
genius to lift into the region of true poetry even
maxims of the merest worldly wisdom, by expressing
them in the stately  Imahrecahrdofmnyobflaethaenrd
words. Often have                                    imaginative
                                                    repeat those
lines :
          ' Neither a borrower nor a lender be ;

          For lending loseth oft thyself and friend,

          And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.'1

But neither in his letters nor in his conversation did
he indicate any enjoyment of poetry. His corre
spondence with my mother was affectionate, sensible,
and often humorous, but exhibiting none of that
' exaggerated sensibility ' which Dr. Robertson had

I Iattributed to him during his sorrow in 1803. Know

ing as do that his nature was very tender, have
no doubt that he was one of those many men who are
much in the habit of suppressing their own deeper
emotions, partly from natural reserve, partly from

a fear lest they should become excessive, and partly
from having no great facility of language. Not

1820]                         PORTKILL             55

Iunfrequently in later years            saw by a silent but
Iexpressive movement of his hands that he was think

ing of his own Dead. But never heard him speak
of them. My mother's letters show, perhaps, a much
more highly emotional disposition, perhaps a wider
range of interests, and certainly a much greater facility
and copiousness of expression.

  In 1820 my father was married to Miss Glassell,
and they then settled down in their country-house
at Ardencaple, where, after my father's resignation
of his seat in Parliament in 1822, they lived exclu

sively.
I Their first child, my elder brother, was born in 1821.
   was born two years later, on the 30th April, 1823.

A daughter was born in 1825.* Another daughter
was born in 1827, but my mother never recovered
well   from  this  last confinement.    inTh1e82c8h. ildItdiewdillfirsbte,
and    then  she   followed, dying
I Iseen, then, that was only five years old when lost
Imy mother.  -- sormeteainof  of her  only a very few scattered
                              them,   indeed, of great vividness,
recollections

but leaning on nothing except the fathomless mysteries

of memory. Those recollections are only, as it were,
Isolitary islands in the waters of forgetfulness, leaving

me to know of her only so much as have gathered
from others and her own very characteristic letters.
For better access to the best medical advice, my father
Iremoved her from Ardencaple to a villa on the Clyde,
close to Glasgow.             was temporarily disposed of by
being sent across the water, and over a low ridge of
hills, to a farm-house called Portkill, on the southern

side of the Rosneath promontory. It was situated
immediately opposite to the town of Gourock, then a
very quiet place, but now chiefly remarkable for the
busy railway-station which is the terminus in this
direction of all the lines to the South Country and
to London.
The house of Portkill was then the residence of

         * Emma, married Sir John McNeill, G.C.B.

56                 ARDENCAPLE                                      [chap, hi

Mr. Lome Campbell, who, besides being the tenant of
the largest farm on the Rosneath estate, was manager
or factor over the whole of it for my uncle George,
sixth Duke of Argyll. His was an hereditary office,
for his father had occupied the same position before
him, and had been a typical representative of a class
of man   which was a remnant               of the feudal  a' gbeasr.oniGesre' --at
estates  were then generally               erected into

that is to say, districts with a regular system of
rural government, in which the tenantry of various
classes took part, under a president or chairman who
represented the proprietor, and was called generally
the Baillie. The assemblies held under this system
had a large authority in regulating all local matters,
and generally adopted in their regulations all the
forms and language of statutory enactments, begin

ning with the words ' It is statute and ordained.'
With the abolition of the old heritable jurisdic
tions and with the speedy introduction of regular
courts of law, these baronial courts soon com
pletely disappeared. But the old titles connected
with them survived for a time, and the representatives
Iof the owners of         BbaailrloieniaClamesptbaetells--cfoanthtienrueodf       to
                   great                                                         the
be called Baillies. Old                     entertained as a child in

first  --hohsatd  by whom was              representative of the olden
                   been a splendid
1828
time. He and my grandfather were contemporaries,
and Baillie Campbell entertained for his chief and for
his friend an attachment which was almost like the

love of woman. When a messenger came from In
veraray to tell him, in 1806, that his old master had
been struck down by a paralytic attack which left no
       tohfeliflee,tteorld--Blaaidillieit                 atat bdlein--nesra.id  He
hope                                       Campbell  was                         no
read                                       down on   the
                                           ' Then, it is time for
other words than these,                                            me to         go,
                                           bed, which he never     left.
too '--rose and went to
His son, Lorne Campbell, was a man of the same
type, deeply attached to the Argyll family, and a
general favourite of all its members. He was then

1823] EARLY IMPRESSIONS                                        57

unmarried, and lived with an old mother, widow of
the Baillie, to whom that dignitary had been married,
when he was past eighty years of age, at the express
wish, and almost the express orders, of my grandfather,
who told him that so good a man ought not to die
without descendants.
Although the house of Portkill was within about
two miles of the home of my infancy at Ardencaple,
it was nevertheless     Ittoctoamllymadnifdfeedrenatt  in its
and surroundings.                                              position
                                                        close  quarters

the roadstead of Greenock, the whole lower course
of the Clyde as far up the river as Dumbarton Castle,
the opening of the lower estuary down to Bute, and
           declivities  of the Argyllshire mountains above
the steep               southern   seidxep--osuarned--afegwenttlreeesslopteo
Dunoon.     With a      on either

hide the   prospects
to the waters of the Firth, it was an absolutely new

I Iscene to me, and look back on the short time
spent there in the fifth year of my age as the first
awakening of that consciousness of time and of events
in which the work of memory can alone begin. The
mechanism of this great faculty is inscrutable to us.
But the instinctive interpretations of human speech
are probably the best, as they are the only indications
of the nearest analogies by which that mechanism can

be best explained.
When we speak of new scenes as making a great
impression, we employ a familiar image taken from the
effect produced on soft substances by the physical
pressure of a seal, or by the contact of some other
external substance exercising an impressing force, and
leaving a mould or cast of itself on a clay, or on a
wax, or some other recipient and yielding surface.
Those likenesses and parallelisms between the pro
perties of matter and mind are puzzling, and in some
aspects they may seem not agreeable subjects of con
templation. That receptivity to impressions which
in matter is due to softness of consistency is in mind
due to that which we call attention. But attention

58                 ARDENCAPLE                               [CHAP. Ill

is one of the greatest mental conceptions that we can
possibly entertain. Novelty in outward things rouses
attention, and under the vivid interest of new scenes

the mind takes impressions which are deep and lasting.
Childish experience is often one of the best fields for
observation in regard to these phenomena. Of the
          of my              with            its unvarying routine of
home   I   retain  infancy,   but            the most scattered and
life,               nothing
Ishadowy recollections. Whereas of my life at Port-

kill, which lasted only a few weeks, remember with
an indelible distinctness a whole series of the most
minute details. The old lady of the house, widow
          Baillie, and mother                         mfigyurheo--ste, smpeadceiallya
          me, and still see
Iof the                                       of                                       great
                                             her                                       when
pet of
Iit                  the door of a                    certain press, which
       approached  to know was well                   filled with jam-pots.
     had learned

Then there was the new experience of being allowed
sometimes to mount in one of the farm-carts, and to
be driven with joltings which, however severe, were
indescribably delightful. Nor were there wanting,
oevf ednisoabtedthieantcee--arltyheageea, tisnogmeof  of the innate pleasures
I Ibidden tree.'                                      the fruit of some ' for
                   was told was not to go into the
Ikitchen. Of course, into the kitchen did go just as
IoAtufvtneeintrineis--as iwtaewnreasompapcaconeryst,suibnblieteycafruoosfmefe--rethFd.eacfilloAisonrdeosntthwedhesioccphepnoswures

lived. And in that kitchen saw for the first and
the last time the preparations for the breakfast of the
p' lloourdglhymdeinshan' dofhaonadtms eoafl  the farm.      There was a                truly
                                              porridge  --  an immense                 bowl

almost as large as a foot-bath, full of a glorious mass
of steaming stuff, so solid in its consistency that a
mast would have stood upright if it had been well
                   deSlipgohot n--s naonwd   mugs of horn were another
planted   there.                              banished from even the
wonder     and

humblest homes by the cheapness of metallurgy,
which has supplanted these, and other long survivals
of the ages of stone and of bone and of horn.

1828] DEATH OF MY MOTHER                                  50

IOne morning remember there was a great excite
ment. Behind the house there was a walled garden,
which, however, was protected on one side by a not very
formidable fence. The smell of delicious vegetables
had led one of the wild roebucks which abounded in
                                                          with one flying
ltehaepwhoeodcsleatoreadpiptr--oaacsh,  the fence,   and  easy for him to
                                                    was
                                        indeed, it
do with those thin, fine legs and springy
which are so specially fitted for such work.              muscles

                                                           In the
morning he was discovered half hid among the beans
and peas, and busy with a repast as delicious to him
as it was destructive of much careful gardening. A
Igun was procured, and, as its discharge would be very

close to the house, recollect being taken out and
Iperched by my nurse on the top of a railing some
ltihtetlemdoismtaennctse--ofift.       recollect,  as if  itmwineuretesye--stoefrdsauys,
                                  seemed the
                                                   many
pense, and then the report, which sounded to me as
if it came from some violent blow upon a sounding-
board. The dead roedeer rather excited my horror ;

I Iand although have myself shot many since, have
never quite got over the dislike of seeing the death of
Ithose loveliest of all the kinds of deer.
  After a time, the length of which cannot recollect,
the weary fight which my mother had long maintained
was evidently drawing to its close. Wishing to see
all her children before she left them, she sent for me,
and the messenger was my pet cousin, Adelaide Camp
bell, the youngest of the many beautiful daughters
of my aunt, Lady Charlotte Campbell, and one of the
two to whom my mother was most attached. She
had been for some time helping to nurse my mother
Iin her illness.                  perfectly recollect her arrival at
IPortkill to take me away to Clyde Villa. recollect
my arrival there, and being taken to see my mother
I Ialong with my elder brother, who had not been sepa
rated as had been.                      dimly recollect her desiring
Ius both to read the Scriptures every night and morn

ing, but neither voice nor face can recall. The fact

60                 ARDENCAPLE               [chap, m

was, however, kept alive by the reminders of those whom
she left in charge of us, and by     towfowhcoicphie--s mofineth--e
Bible given to us at the time, one  -- my brother's --in
was in a single volume, the other
Itwo volumes. The difference attracted my attention,
and remains, accordingly, in vivid memory.  recol

lect, farther, having been taken by my father to see

her in her coffin and to kiss her cold brow. All else
is gone --except the funeral. We all went in a steamer
to the old church of Kilmun, the remains of a monastic
establishment founded by the Argyll family in the
fifteenth century, and which has ever since been our

burying-place.
   On this little journey by water, little more than
twenty miles, another great novelty aroused all my
attention, and remains,
                         accordingly, deeply impressed
on my memory. It is        to be remembered that at
that time steam navigation was only a few years
old. The boats were very different from those we

see now. In that which took us to Kilmun the
engines worked in an open well, and the piston-rods
rose high above, and fell deep below, the level of
the decks. The passengers were only saved by a
Ilow bulwark from  the danger of  cfuarlliionsgityin--. asT, hinedefierds,t
                    wonder and
alarm gave way to
to this day never see a great steam-engine at work
without something approaching to emotion.

   The burying-place at Kilmun is called a vault. But

Itit does not at all correspond with that description.
is simply a part of the chancel of the old church,
wholly above ground, and to which access was ob
tained by large folding-doors. Each side of the aisle
was fitted up with a broad shelf of stone, on which
the coffins were deposited and were fully exposed to
view. My mother's coffin was laid near that of my
grandfather, who had died in 1806. On this being
done, the bearers retired, and shut behind them the
Ifolding - doors, leaving us all in a dim and gloomy
light.  still recollect the panic which then seized

1828] LITE AT ARDENCAPLE                                                                                               61

me, and the tall, deeply craped figure of my cousin,
Adelaide Campbell, trying to pacify my terrors by

Iassuring me that we were not to be there long.
recollect, too, my father kneeling on the slab beside
my mother's coffin, and seeing that it was carefully
adjusted with reference to the position of the other
                     remains. But my panic was little abated
tmillouIldseariwng  the folding-doors reopened, and until we
emerged into the light of day, with the sea at our
feet and the mountains all around. A few days
later we all left the fateful villa near Glasgow, and
drove to our old home of Ardencaple.
Such were the occurrences and scenes by which
my young life was first awakened to the light of
memory and to the consciousness of time. Almost

everything before then is a blank to me, whilst every
subsequent year is more or less stored with recollec
tions. Few of those occurrences were in themselves
pleasurable. Most of them were very sad, whilst
some were even terrifying to a child. They left,
however, no permanent atmosphere of melancholy
about my father. He busied himself in his estate,
in his workshop occupations, and in his constant
          yceianalrlestdhheeanpnreoevgxerceresplsetfiotonfA--rmdoeenncchsaahpnolierct,aleexxscccueierpsntico--en. sif  For
interest
fifteen                                                                                                                this
can be                                                                                                                 into

the neighbouring county of Argyll, in which he always
retained his position as Colonel of the Militia. He
had also, under the trust arrangements on his brother's
estate, some personal responsibility for the manage
ment of the extensive woods at Inveraray. These
occupations gave him annually something to do outside
his own home. But with these short interruptions he
lived entirely at home, rarely even going outside the
boundaries of his small property, except on Sundays
to the parish church of Row. For a couple of years
after my mother's death his favourite niece kept
Ihouse for him, and her care and affection afforded
me all the knowledge  ever had of motherhood.

62  ARDENCAPLE  [chap, hi

She was of a very lively and cheerful disposition,
with a great love of sculpture, and her work in making
busts and medallions in the fine blue clay of the
Clyde ' till ' was always a delight to me.

   In 1830 my father married the widow of the medical

man who had attended my mother in her last illness.
She was one of the Cuninghames of Craigends, a
family descended from the Earls of Glencairn, the
last of whom is so touchingly addressed by Burns.*
FyeroaMmrys--fmahtyheenmr'esovtemhrearlre'rsfiat gdheeiasmthqaudiienetn1oh8o2dm8ifefe,tirleslon1cte8h3ai6nt--hthifsoerhwaebhigiothsle.t

Iof my boyhood till the age of thirteen was spent

in the entirely rural and secluded life which have
described.

      * ' Lament for James, Earl of Glencairn ' (Robert Burns).

                     CHAPTER IV

         MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS

The events which first awaken memory are not neces
sarily the same as those which first call forth any of the
higher exercises of mind. Of course, the mere memory
of an event is in itself the memory of some thought
Iabout it. But that thought may be unconnected with
any other. have      often tried to recollect what  itIwt aiss
that first awoke in  me anything like reflection.
a mistake to suppose that a life led wholly in a remote
country home could have been a life secluded from the
great thought movements of our time. The tides rise
and fall as freely at the farthest ends of a long arm of
the sea as at the gateways through which the ocean
finds admittance among the hills.
   The four years after my mother's death were years of

great events. In 1 829 there came the settlement of a long
contest in the concession of Catholic Emancipation. In
1831 came the visitation of the Asiatic cholera in Britain.
In 1830-1832 there followed a desperate struggle for
the reform of Parliament. My father had been too
long a member of the House of Commons not to take
at least such part as could alone remain to a mere
country gentleman in these great events. And yet, as

Iregards what was called the Catholic Question, remem
ber nothing more than an echo that must be largely
         with the sounds of     osof mheiswhfaatmillayt--erwhyiecahrs.I
mingled  followed the politics
He had
need not say were Whig. The very word Whig
is said to have been originally derived from some
local name connected with one of the Covenanting

64       MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                  [CHAP. IV

military associations of my ancestor, the Marquis of
Argyll.
   For a long    time   Whig
                 the   Roman      politics           wecraeusee--ssfeonrtiatlhlye
antagonistic to                    Catholic
natural and sufficient reason that for centuries the
Roman Catholic Church had been hostile to the
liberties of the British people. But with the final
settlement of the Protestant succession, and the failure
of the two Jacobite Rebellions of 1715 and 1745, this

association of ideas slowly and gradually disappeared--
how   rseloswistlyanacnedofhGoweorggreadIuIIa.llyto  is well seen in the persis
tent                                                 the views of his favourite
Minister, Mr. Pitt. That resistance rested on the tra
ditional policy which was identified with the establish
ment of his family on the throne, and with the literal
meaning of the Coronation Oath. But security had
brought confidence, and the undoubted good conduct
of the Catholics as a body in the dangers which arose
out of the French Revolution, as well as the felt neces
sity of conciliating, if we hoped to rule, the great bulk
of the people of Ireland, had wrought a complete
Ichange, and had converted a change of policy into a

necessity of State. All that recollect my father
saying was that he had voted with his party for many
years in favour of the Catholic claims ; but he was
shocked when the Duke of Wellington confessed that
he was afraid of Ireland, and based his change of policy
mainly on that ground. To that argument my father
would not bow, and always said that he would not have
voted as he had before done. This recollection con
Ivinces me that my father had not a political mind, in

which am farther confirmed by the fact that, although
he was for many years in the House of Commons during
the ministry of Mr. Pitt, which lasted from 1784 to
1801, and although he must have heard many of the
Igreat oratorical encounters between that master of

speech and his rival, Mr. Fox, never heard him refer
to any   oof newhoofmthIemeveinr  his conversation.  The only
leader                            heard him speak    with any

1830]              THE REFORM AGITATION                65

admiration was the Duke of Wellington, and that in
his character as a soldier rather than as a Minister.
The Reform Agitation, which immediately succeeded
Catholic Emancipation in 1829,          left far more  dis
tinct recollections in my mind.  hIats  is now much    for

gotten how violent and universal the excitement was.

But it was specially violent in Scotland. This arose
from the circumstance that the previous condition of
things had come to be far more obviously absurd in
Scotland than in England. The number of men en
titled to vote for members of Parliament had come to
be the merest fraction of the people, and this fraction
belonged exclusively to one class. When the public
mind came at last to be fixed upon the subject, the con
dition of things was too glaringly at variance with any
possible theory of Parliamentary representation to
stand discussion for a moment. So, at least, we think
now. And yet, as a matter of fact, it had stood dis
cussion for no less than half a century, not only without
any general recognition of any necessity for a change,
but with a general acquiescence in the arguments by
which it was deprecated and resisted.
The dread and horror inspired by the madness and
the wickedness of the French Revolution had, no doubt,
much to do with that resistance, as it was the main
influence on the mind of Mr. Pitt, who had been one
of the earliest reformers. But we shall do little justice
to the attitude of those who resisted the change to the
very last, unless we recognise the truth of many of the
arguments used by the opponents of reform. The
doctrine of ' virtual representation,' which played a
        part   in   their   reasoning, was, within limits, per
great   true.              quite possible, under special condi
fectly             It is
tions of society, for a very few actual electors to be, on
the whole, fair representatives of almost any number
in a possible constituency. The Parliaments of the
United Kingdom had been always on at least a full
level of intelligence with the great body of the people.
They had fully represented the aggregate opinion of the
vol. i.
                                         5

66       MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                            [CHAP. IV

country, both during the great contest with Napoleon
and since its close. Nor was there any new measure or

system of domestic policy, clearly desired by the people,
the denial of which would be a source of anger, or even

of agitation. It is more than doubtful whether the
public generally, either in Scotland or in England, if
pEmopaunlcairplaytiorenp. reseItnteisd,    would have granted   Catholic
                                         much more probable    that this

act of true wisdom would have been violently resisted
by the ultra-Protestant feeling of the masses. Nor was
the old Parliament open to the charge of standing
in the way of those other measures which, at a later
date, came to be identified with the interests of the
people.
    Most of us have now come to the conclusion that the
old Corn Laws had been a mistake, and that restrictions
in the import of food were an impediment to trade
and to a rise in the value of labour. But the mobs who
shouted for reform of Parliament in 1831-32 had no idea
of this, because the theory of Protection was then the
theory of all classes, and especially of those who were
concerned in manufacture and commerce. Accordingly,
as a matter of fact, it was thirteen or fourteen years
after the passing of the Reform Bill that the new Parlia
ment began seriously to adopt the policy of Free Trade.

Even then it was driven to the adoption of it by the
unprecedented calamity of the great Irish famine of

1846-47. It is a mistake, therefore, to suppose that
opposition to a great change in the constitution of
Parliament was an error which convicts all those who
joined in it of all that purblindness and political
stupidity which we are apt now to attribute to it. This
is one of the many cases in political affairs in which all
sense of true perspective has been lost in the fore-
shortenings of history, and in the sharp turnings taken
by events rapidly accomplished,          anItd    by doctrines
suddenly, yet universally, accepted.            is still vulgarly
believed by many that the resistance to reform came
mainly from the House of Lords, whereas the fact is

1830]               THE REFORM AGITATION                         67

that the resistance of the House of Commons lasted
during fifty, whilst the resistance of the Lords lasted
barely for two, years.
When a man of the genius, imagination, and liberal
disposition of George Canning was one of the sturdiest
opponents of the Reform Movement, we may be quite
sure of at least the reality of some of the dangers which
Ibeset it, and of   the possibility of  atoratitio--naaln
                    strongly opposed                       opposition.
My father was                                               opposition
which think was largely founded on that fear of
Jacobinism which had been so powerful an element in
the hand of Pitt, and had been to some extent renewed
in much later years by symptoms of popular disaffection,
Iand even of contemplated insurrection in certain parts of
Scotland in 1821.       can still recollect his speaking of

drillings by night, and of the discovery of hidden pikes,
which must have reminded him of the sad work he had
to do in Ireland in 1798. The result, though certainly
not a logical result, of all these facts and associations
        him         eager opponent of the administration         of
made   Grey  --ana  man whom he remembered for years             in

Earl

the House of Commons as one of the determined
                    Pitt, and of whom   he used to tell the
Ienemies of Mr.                         to verify, that he
                    have been unable
story, which
was the only member of the House of Commons who
                     wore coloured clothes,  when all others
ostentatiously      mourning, on the murder
came down in                                 of Louis XVIII.
being announced from Paris. My father had erected
a high flagstaff on the top of a new tower which had
been built in connection with an addition to the castle.
On this flagstaff he used always to hoist a large Union
Jack whenever Lord Grey's Government received any
check, so that very often the country people round, who
saw the well-known flag before they knew the cause,
used to say, ' Hech, sirs ! what's come over the Whigs

noo ?'
When the riots and the incendiarisms at Bristol and
elsewhere took place, little local echoes of the same
spirit reached even the quiet shores of the Gareloch,
                                                           5--2

68                MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS  [chap, iv

Iand recollect hearing the shouts of such a mob as the
village of Helensburgh could then afford, coming along
the road between the castle and the sea. No doubt
my father's somewhat provocative defiance of the
popular side in his flaring flag hoisted on all occasions
might, if near great popular centres, have brought down

on him dangerous attacks. In one of the elections held
during those years, the mob in the burgh of Dumbarton,
nine miles off, had exhibited a very ferocious temper.
The Tory candidate, Lord William Graham, one of
the Montrose family, had to seek refuge for his life
in a house in the town, where he was surrounded
by a besieging mob. He was only delivered by my
old friend and host, Lorne Campbell, who, though
acting on the Whig side, rallied a body of ship-car
penters from the building-yards on the Leven, rescued
Lord William, and took him to a place of safety.
One day is vividly impressed on my memory, when
either from threatening letters or some other source
of information my father anticipated a possible attack

on his house. This he was determined to meet, if it
came, by an armed resistance. He had many guns of
various kinds in his possession. With these he armed
all available men-servants, the tutor of his boys, and
himself. The spirit of his brave mother, when she
refused to obey the mob whose idol was a disreputable
scoundrel, was the spirit of her son, when the right of
any man to express his political opinions freely was
Iopenly threatened by howling mobs. Fortunately, no

attack was made ; for am sure that in self-defence
he would not have hesitated to open fire on those who
had first recourse to violence.
    But, although these memories of the Reform Agita
tion are vivid in my mind, they stand there absolutely
isolated and alone; they have no organic connection
with the history of my life or with the development of
Imy mind. Neither then, nor for a good many later
years,  hIatd is  awoke to political feelings of any sort  or
                  true that the atmosphere of opinion      in
kind.

1834-41]  SIR ROBERT PEEL  69

which we live as children may have an unconscious
effect of which no trace is left in memory. But in my
case that atmosphere was on the whole essentially non-
political, and when the tempestuous squalls of a tem

Iporary excitement had passed away, the air breathed

was one of altogether peaceful interests and pursuits.
My father was so busy with his plantations, with his
turning-lathes, with his sawmill, and with such scien

Itific reading as the Mechanic's Magazine, that do not

recollect his ever speaking on politics at all. Nor is
this surprising, for it is to be remembered that the
Reform Act of 1832 was absolutely successful in allay
ing the almost revolutionary agitation which alone had
carried it. The delusive fears, and the not less delusive
expectations, it had roused were alike submerged
under those deeper-seated currents of our political
system, which immediately resumed their sway, and
under which, within the short space of nine years, so
great a reaction was brought about that the Conserva
tive party, which had seemed to be completely over
borne, returned to power in 1841 with a majority of
ninety-one. During all those years of slow but steady
reaction there was nothing to arouse my father's political
feelings, though he watched with interest the gallant
and skilful tactics with which Sir Robert Peel dogged
the faltering steps and the declining credit of the Whig

IMinistries which succeeded that of Lord Grey.

recollect, indeed, his amusement and delight when in
1834 all the offices of the State were temporarily
held by the Duke of Wellington, pending the return
of Sir Robert Peel from Italy. But this, too, was

a passing incident, and it hardly sufficed to change
even for a moment the placid tenor of my boyish
life, or to call away my thoughts from the very
different subjects with which they were habitually

engaged.

   It would be very difficult for me now to define even

to myself in any form of words what those subjects
were : they were so merely boyish in their beginnings,

70           MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                  [chap. IV

so far-reaching and so various in the issues to which they
led. Natural history in all its branches, but in par
ticular ornithology, was the substratum of the whole.
My father had given me a small hand telescope. With
this it was my special delight to identify every bird
with its peculiar song, securing for this purpose by
the glass an artificial nearness                which    iswaoyfteI nbemcaumceh
needed with the shyer warblers.
                                                In this
familiar with the notes of all the species which were
Icommon, and of some that were, and are, compara

tively rare. In this way, also, was able to watch the
habits of birds at a distance, when they could not know
that they were seen, and when, therefore, their natural
I Imanners were undisturbed. Moreover, at a very early

age, how early cannot quite remember, began to
Iwrite careful notes of every day's observations on my

favourite pursuit. This journal kept quite secret,
never showing it even to my brother. The bird fauna
Iof my father's estate was not a very large one ; and
the absence of many species of which                     read in
Bewick and other books was a standing trouble
to me, but also a standing incitement to closer
watching in the  wtroooudbslea. ndItfiewldass.     One case of absence
gave me special
                                                that of the marsh tit,

since the whole tribe of titmice were my greatest
favourites, and all were abundant except the crested
Itit, which could not expect to see, and the marsh tit,
ItwimhiechI  knew to  be abundant   in England.            For a long
           suspected                be escaping
                      that it must                       my observa
tion owing to its general resemblance to the cole tit,
both species having a black head, but the cole being
distinguished by a white space running up from the
Inape of the neck to nearly the top of the head. Fre

quently was rejoicing in seeing some little black head
which looked like the marsh tit, and my telescope was
fixed on every movement of the bird, so as to identify
the species. But, alas ! always when the nape of the
neck became visible, the obnoxious white stripe of the
cole destroyed my hopes. My eager watching, how

1830-34]            MY STUDY OF BIRDS            71

ever, for this absent species had one good effect, in
leading me to appreciate better the extraordinary
charm of the cole tit. With the exception of the gold-
crest, it is the smallest of British birds, as it is also
the most active and alert. Never for an instant still,
it more often feeds on the ground than any other of
the titmice, hopping eagerly and lightly over the
fallen leaves in winter, digging under them, tossing
them aside in search of buried treasures of insect life,

or of beech-mast and other seeds. When any prize is
found, the cole instantly darts up to the nearest bough,
and there, holding it down by one claw, hammers it
with the bill till all edible contents are extracted and
devoured. This done, the mercurial little bird darts
down again to the ground, and resumes its rapid and
eager Sittings over the mosses and the leaves. And
during all the manoeuvres the head and neck are in
perpetual movement, turning and stretching from
side to side, with an eager and impatient curiosity, but
always in attitudes expressive of the most charming
arcIhtnewsassanidn  full of the most perfect
                      connection   with  this  grace.
for missing         birds that            my    constant quest
                                  I had         first experience
of those curious coincidences between certain vivid
impressions of the mind and corresponding out
ward occurrences, which few people pass through
life without encountering occasionally, and which
always strike them as mysterious, suggesting as
they do some channels of connection between the
internal and the external world which in their nature
are unrecognised and unknown. There was one bird,
represented in the books as not uncommon, which,
otfrhfoeBmrreiatdisscthoalrobt.uirrdesdI,tpbisluattaew,shpseieccehimesIedwhahtdoichnmeeivsetwhr eidseemelnyo. sdtisbTterhiaibsuuttwiefuadsl
Iin the British Isles, but is nowhere abundant.  have
since seen it on the wild but sheltered shores of Loch
Torridon on the north-west coast of Ross-shire, and
more abundantly than elsewhere among the fine old

72  MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                            [chap, iy

trees of Richmond Park. But in my boyhood I had
Inever seen it among the woods of my home, till on a

certain day was sitting at my desk in the schoolroom
working at the Latin grammar, or some other horror
of the like kind, when suddenly the name and idea of
the redstart was flashed upon me as somewhere near
Iat hand, and, on looking out of the window near which

  was sitting, there was the bird perched on the apex
of a conical stone belonging to the old castle, which
had been taken down during some alterations, and had
been placed as an ornament on the gravel walk in front
of the house. My delight and astonishment were un
bounded. The
conclusive -- for,   recognition        was               instantaneous     and
                    indeed, there       is no             other bird with  such
an assemblage of peculiar characters. The pure white
brow upon a head otherwise very dark, the pale red

bwmraoertabisoletn,r--st.haellIftitehmreysuesttaaibrleewauibtnhoiquuittessiavxmetyroy-nfigvseintghyueelaatrrrsibsveiinbcoreaf ttothhriyes

circumstance occurred, and the pleasure it gave me is
vivid still.
  IBut my greatest amusement among birds was derived

from an immense rookery which looked upon as the
glory of Ardencaple. The whole of a long and broad
wood through which the approach ran for about a
quarter of a mile was thickly peopled by those curious
and entertaining members of society. The trees which
had been planted at the foot of the steep bank on
which the castle stood were all covered with the nests,
and, as the roots of those trees were some 30 feet

below the foundations, their top branches were no
higher than the upper windows, some of which were
almost touched by the boughs and birds. The nests
were therefore largely on a level with the windows,
and accessible to continuous observation. There was

one window on the upper story of the house which was
tchiricsuslalorpiinngfosrumrf,acweitIh  a sill which sloped inwards. On
                                        cIonutsreivdedto  to perch myself, whilst,
with a book in hand,                                      watch all the habits of

1830-34]                  CROWS AND THEIR HABITS      73

the ' crows,' as rooks are always called in Scotland.
Many of these habits are very curious and interesting.
Many of them have been well described. But two things
specially attracted my attention : one was the great
distance off at which the hen birds, when sitting on
their eggs, could recognise their mates coming with
food, although these mates were flying among a crowd
of other husbands, all coming on the like errand to
other expectant wives. The walk of a man is some
Itimes so distinctive as to be easily recognisable at a

considerable distance. But question whether it is
ever so distinctive as to enable a human friend to recog
nise his nearest at a distance comparable with that at
which     a sitting       crow         instantly recognise the flight
of her     coming         mate.  can    impressed me with the dis

                                   It
tinctions which our blind eyes are incapable of seeing ;
and this is a thought which has wide and instructive
applications in many other spheres of knowledge and
observation.
   But there was another conviction pressed home upon
my mind by watching my friends the crows, and that
was a conviction which relates to much higher qualities

I Iin those birds. felt certain from what saw that in
cases where one parent had been shot on some farmer's
field, and the young were left at least half orphaned
in their nest, some neighbouring parent helped the
widowed mother in the feeding of her young. This
conviction arose from often seeing one crow feeding the

young in other nests besides his own, a fact for which
it is impossible to account by any other explanation.
iWnsetinhcatv--e nhoetre                               of the social
                           a very   high development  some acts of
                          higher,  however, than in
creatures much lower in the scale of being than birds,
such as ants and bees. But instinct rises in its quality
with the comparative elevation of the organism with

which it is associated ; and the near approach to moral

qualities which is represented in one crow feeding the
orphaned young of another implies a far higher nature
than is represented in the act of an ant taking charge

74                MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                   [chap, it

of derelict eggs or pupa which have been scattered from
its native ant-hill.
    The educating effect of the physical sciences, and
of natural history, considered as one of them, depends
entirely  Itonis  the conditions   under which they are pur
sued.             quite possible  to finger the facts of Nature

without even a passing thought of any of the wonderful
problems they involve. On the other hand, there is
no door into those facts, however small, which does
not lead by endless passages into the deepest ques
tions of philosophy and religion. Tennyson's few
lines concerning one of the most familiar plants that
nestle in old walls are literally true :

          ' Little flower that grows upon the wall,

             I pluck you out of the crannies ;
           Could I know what you are all in all,

              I should know what God and man is."

   Any complete separation between the disposition
to enjoy Nature and at least some desire to under
stand her may be a temporary mood, as Wordsworth
has expressed it :

                  ' Contented if I might enjoy

                       What others understand.'

But this cannot be a permanent attitude of the
mind. The relations between all natural phenomena
                   affections of the human spirit              arIef
and corresponding  near to allow of this divorce.
too many and too
the tendencies of my own mind had been such as to
Ifavour a mere passive enjoyment of things beautiful

and curious in Nature, should have been saved from
          intellectual sleep      cboynvmerysatfiaotnh.er'sIt  favourite
          and his frequent                                      so hap
Isuch an                          was born, he had been

pursuits
pened that, years before
attracted from human mechanics to the great subject
of animal mechanics in the structures of organic life,
and especially to that most wonderful example which

1830-34]  THE FLIGHT OF BIRDS                                 75

is presented in the flight of birds. He had grappled
with the difficult and complicated problems it presents
in every point of view, testing his theories by experi
ments, by calculations, and by machines of most
ingenious construction. He always saw that the true
explanation of the phenomena of flight had been cor
r' eDcetlyMogtivuenAnbimy aalinumo,l'd    writer,  Borelli,   in his work
                                        and that    all late  attempts to
navigate the air had been founded on complete ignor
ance of the fundamental mechanical laws which must

be recognised and obeyed.
The field of animal mechanics is one of enormous
breadth, and in every corner of it we meet with organic
structures which are examples of the most complicated
mechanism for the doing of some special work which

could not be done without it. In so far as this general
principle of explanation is concerned, there is no
difference whatever between the wing of a bird and
the hand of a man. But there are some special cir
cumstances affecting the machinery of flight which do
not belong to the machinery of prehension or of walk
ing ; and these special circumstances make the phe
nomena of flight more striking, and in some respects
more instructive, than those of any other function
among living things. One special circumstance is
what may be called        the externality, and
visibility, of the tools  which are employed.                 cIofnosuerquoewnnt
structures were as naked and visible to the eye, if our
outside coverings were as diaphanous as they are in
some of the lower creatures, we should be in perpetual
astonishment at the infinite complexity of the purely
mechanical apparatuses of which our vital tissues
are composed. These indeed are to a large extent
the same as in birds. The bones of birds, and the

muscles which move them, are constructed on exactly
the same principle as our own, although with special
modifications as to shape, concentration, and relative
position, which are all in harmony with the object
to be attained. But neither the wing-muscles nor

76           MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                                        [chap, l\r

the wing-bones would of themselves enable a bird
to fly.
   During the years in which my father was studying
this problem of the flight of birds, the great Cuvier
was carrying on those profound researches which
raised up, on broad and   deaenpatfoomuyn.datiIotnsw, atshecsopmlepnardaid
science of comparative                                                         between
tive not only as between                  liveixntgincatn. imaItls,   but
them and animals long                                                was   as   a later
                                                                           at
date that Owen, Cuvier's pupil and successor in Eng
land, built upon the same basis those conclusions as
to the unity of plan in the skeleton of all vertebrates
which were popularized in his work, ' On the Nature
Iof Limbs.' Of all this order of ideas my father knew
nothing.     never heard him even allude to the wing-
bones of birds, or indicate an idea that they were
fundamentally the same as the bones of his own
forearm. All these conceptions came later than his
day, and they would have been a destruction rather
than a help to him in his special work of explaining
the mechanics of flight in birds, as distinguished from
all other methods of animal progression.

  In all quadrupeds, in man, and in birds, too, so far
             --thethireifreebto, ntehse,  mmeursecleasn, aatonmd icsainlewstsru--ctaurere    of
as regards                                                                                 all-
their limbs
sufficient in themselves, when fully developed, to enable
the animal to support its own weight, and to stand or
leap or run on the solid ground. They need no adjuncts
of an external kind. But this does not apply to the

fore-limbs of birds. In their own anatomical struc
ture they are incapable of giving the power of flight.

In the thin and invisible medium of the air, they are
in themselves merely parts that add to the weight of
the whole, and thus add also to the difficulty of over
coming the   sfoomrcee--oifngraavsiteyn.se  --Uanrletisfsicifaulrnaisnhdede, xttehrenrael
fore, with
adjunct, that great difficulty could not possibly be
overcome. This was the point on which my father
always fixed his attention, and he was never tired of

1830-34]            ANIMAL MECHANICS                                       77

dwelling on the truly wonderful device, first, in each
separate wing-feather as regarded its own properties
and structure, and, secondly, in the combination
of the series of them in one special arrangement
for the production of a very special and a most
difficult mechanical result. The great complexity
both of the separate units and of their combined
arrangement was always pointed out as a necessity
for making   Ifsuhcecaevssyfubl oduisees  of the elastic properties
of the air.                               were to be made capable
of navigating the thin and yielding atmosphere, and

of exercising in it the most easy and beautiful evolu
tions, a                                             had to
for the   pvuerpryosep.ecuIlitarcomuladchoinnelyry  be done  be provided
                                                             by knowing
how to do it, and this was the knowledge which we
must make our own if we were to understand the
machinery of flight. We might or we might not
be able to   iImt itawtaes  it, but we could        certainly under
stand it.                    not effected in        Nature by any
miracle, but by the use of certain appropriate means,
which are as purely mechanical as in the case of any
other
        apparatus.  light   of  this      idea      that     my  life  as  a
  It   was in the
                                            observation and in con
                    in continual
                     on what              saw. It never was to me
Iboy was spent

tinual reasoning
in the least degree a theory or an abstract conception.

It was a simple matter of obvious fact. My father
never concerned himself with what is ordinarily called
philosophy, or with any arguments on natural theology.
His mind was eminently practical, and his explana
tions of the mechanics of flight were founded on the
same fundamental principles on which he would explain
the action of the then newly-invented paddles in steam
Inavigation. With this principle in full and unques

tioned possession of my mind, was continually testing
by observation the explanation he gave of the power
of a bird's wing. And my observation confirmed it.
IWhen a crow was seen on a level with my eye flying

either to or from me, used to note the bending up of

78        MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                                      [chap, iv

the wing-feather  ttoipsth, osaenswqueirlilnsg--tehxeacdtloyubtloe        the func
tion he assigned                                                          function,

namely, of at once sustaining and propelling the body
to which they were attached. The simplicity and
beauty of this contrivance was deeply impressed upon
my mind, and the general ignorance of it even in
our own day, despite all our advances in practical
mechanics, is a standing astonishment to me. But
the whole subject becomes clear, if one is once in
full possession of this principle of interpretation,
namely, the principle that the function or duty which
every part of an animal was destined to discharge
must always be the antecedent explanation of its
structure, whilst, conversely, that structure must be
governed by the necessity of conforming to certain fixed
Iconditions if it was to be competent for its work.

  In handling and skinning dead birds soon came
across variations in the structure of feathers, which
proved their subservient adaptability to kinds of
work which are not only various, but opposite and
contradictory. One essential quality of the wing-
feathers  itshetheqiur ililm- vpaenrevsi.ousInfestshetsoe  the passage of            air
through                                                     were pervious            to
the air they would be useless for the purposes of
flight, because that purpose absolutely demands that
aerial resistance to the wing-stroke should be econo
mized to the very uttermost. But as the whole body
of a bird is equally clothed with feathers, it becomes
a question whether this characteristic is equally suit
able for the needs of other parts of the body. Would
itthseutnedxetrucrleothoifngwi--ngf-ofreatthheerkseedpoingweollu, tfoorf             for
                                                                          example,   the
                                                                          cold, for

Inon-conduction and consequent saving of the animal
heat ? Clearly not.  was struck, therefore, by the
fact that, where those purposes have to be served, the
structure of feathers is so modified that, always recog
nisable as consisting of the same elements, they are
absolutely different in their function and effects. The
down of an eider-duck, although a finer article than

1830-34]  ADAPTATION OF FEATHERS  79

the down of other birds, is essentially of the same
structure as theirs, whilst the wing-feathers of all are
equally different in essential properties. But there
was another illustration of the same general law which
struck me even more. How could feathers impervious
to the passage of air be adapted to the covering of
the ear in birds, seeing that the ear is an organ depend
ing for its functions entirely on the free access of those

Ifine aerial pulsations which we know as sound ? was

struck by discovering how this problem was solved.
Just as the texture of wing-feathers would have been
useless for warmth, just as the warm texture of down
would have been equally useless for affording free
access to sound, so a third modification of structure

Ihad to be provided for feathers covering the ear.

Accordingly, found that modification provided in a
patch of feathers on the cheeks of all birds round the
opening of the ears, which by a beautiful and special

adaptation is perfectly fitted for the purpose. In all

respects they are true feathers, and not mere hairs.
They have the same root and stems of quill. They
have the same attached filaments. But these fila

ments, instead of being hooked together so as to form
a continuous web, are, on the contrary, separated by
empty spaces, and are thus rendered completely dis
continuous. Thus, the air passes completely through
them, with the result that sound is not impeded, and
the hearing of birds is singularly acute.

   There was, again, another case of special adaptation
in the feathers of birds, which to my mind was almost
more striking than any other. The blow of a bird's
wing upon the air in flying must be powerful to produce
the requisite resistance. But such blows cannot be de

livered without the production of noise. In some birds,

 such as swans, the noise is very loud indeed, audible at
 a great distance. Even in the common wood-pigeon
 the swishing noise of their wings may often be heard

when they are at a great height. In all ordinary cases

 this production of noise is no injury to birds. Those

80     MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                                [chap, iv

that are the prey of others are never detected except
by sight, and noiselessness in movement would be no
protection. But there is one class of birds to which
a noisy flight would be so injurious as to be incom
patible with the getting of their food. These are the
owls, which prey upon the small nocturnal mammalia,
such as mice, or on larger creatures, such as rabbits
and hares. What owls therefore require, above all
things, is a soft and noiseless flight. And yet their
wing-feathers must be not less continuous and strong
than those of other birds. Accordingly, again, the
absolute need is    mdeevticea--ndanparloovgioduesd    for by    another
purely mechanical                                    to that of  muffled

oars for the silent rowing of boats upon the water.
The whole wing-feathers of owls are fitted out with
loose downy filaments, which quench sound by causing
the escaping air, after it has done its work, to pass
through a downy and soft material.
witThhewrehicwhasI  another department of natural                history
                                                    to face in   Nature,
and through         wwahsiceharIly  brought   face   indelible   impres
                                    drank in   the

sion of her inexhaustible mechanical ingenuities.
       were then none of            btheocsoemechasromincogmmaqouna. riuImn
There  which have since
tanks
Istooping down to drink out of the most crystal streams,

or in chasing water-beetles on stiller ditches, had
often seen mere bits of sand suddenly appear to put
out legs and move, or bits of mud as suddenly reveal
themselves to be living creatures.
We took a capacious tub for our aquarium, and soon
gathered together a goodly collection of everything we
could catch alive. Their structures were various and
wonderful, but
                    we could        always    see their purpose.
If sometimes we      wondered       how a     caddis worm could
glue to its own sides bits of rotten stick and bark,

we always saw in a moment the reason why. By
means of this power they often deceived ourselves,

and by means of it they could obviously deceive even
the most watchful trout. How sometimes they could

1830-34]  HATCHING TEMPERATURE                        81

encase themselves wholly in the loveliest and most
transparent grains of sand, selecting these from all
coarser material, was a perpetual wonder to us. But

the reason why they should do so, if they could, was
a direct and intuitive perception. The concealment
was so perfect as to defy detection. Then the various
apparatuses for different kinds of movement in and
under water, for   reovweinn,ga, nfdorlepaupnitnigng,onfotrhreapsuidrfabcuerr--owall
ing, for running,
these were impressed upon me by watching the life
Iand doings of aquatic larvae.
   Above all was impressed by what is now called the
metamorphosis of these creatures. The hatching of
Ibirds from eggs had attracted my father's careful atten

tion before was born. He had investigated it syste
matically. Like a cuckoo, he  had   introduced     an egg of
his own making under sitting  hens  -- a metallic  egg with

a small thermometer put inside. This egg he could
rapidly open and read off the hatching temperature.
IApplying this knowledge, he had hatched multitudes

of chickens by artificial heat, and was familiar with
the facts. But my father told me nothing of that
second hatching by which the most hideous aquatic
larvae, after leading an independent life in water, are
rapidly transmuted into gorgeous winged creatures,
living in a new element, and having no recognisable
Ilikeness to their former selves, either in form, or in

structure, or in habits. had often wondered silently
how so short a time as twenty-one days could be
enough to transform the yolk and white of an egg
into a completed chicken, with even its wing-feathers
so perfect in form as to be ready for at least a flutter
ing flight. But this seemed nothing to the wonder
of a hideous aquatic worm being transformed into a
Iterrestrial fly in the course of a few hours.        never
Iheard any agument relative to the subject, nor did
Iever think of one.  never heard anybody argue or
assume that long ages of time could alone produce
great changes in living things. But in later years,
vol. i.
                                                   6

82         MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS        [chap, iv

when such reasonings reached my ears, my mind
was too full of the presence and the power of well-
remembered facts to allow of such a conception finding
entrance.
    The educating effect of these pursuits was to me
enormous. The mere collecting of stuffed birds, or
Ieven the study of the classification of species and
genera, could never be of equal value.       had few
books of any use for such purposes. Sixty years
ago the literature of natural history was poor and
scanty. Bewick, of course, was constantly in my
hand, but he is only valuable for his incomparable
woodcuts. White's ' Natural History of Selborne *
was indeed a more enduring resource -- as it has been
throughout my life, especially during illness. But
the charm of Gilbert White lies in its simple and
calm reflection of the woods and fields. He has no
                                  The profounder
recondite reflections on Nature.

questions more recently raised by the expanding
science of biology lay deep under the surface of his
letters, as they do under the more familiar aspects
of external things. In such of these profounder sug
Igestions as arose out of my father's teaching had
Ino other book than the Book of Nature.      valued
           Ibooks in proportion as they explored   with
Iall other                                        never

truth her
           inexhaustible facts and aspects.  can
forget the delight with which recognised one day in
the woods of Ardencaple, solely by the graphic descrip
tion of Gilbert White, the song of the largest of the
willow-wrens discovered by him, since called the wood-

wren (Sylvia trochilus).
   The evoking of our mental powers, and the supply
ing of them with the ordinary elements of instruction,
are two very different kinds of work. My education
in the latter sense of the word was entirely conducted
by private tutors. All of these were young men pre
pared, or preparing themselves, for the ministry of the
Established Church of Scotland. They were all most
worthy men, but only two of them attained to even

1830-34]           VIBGIL                                              83

local eminence in their own religious body, and not
one of them ever exercised upon me any influence

Iwhich can now trace. None of them cared for my
Ipursuits, and never spoke to them on the subject.
None of them were enthusiasts in anything which
they did teach, and without enthusiasm in teaching
Ithere can be no influence on the taught.                              neovr--er
      boronueghetxcteoptcioarne--foforr  the classical
was                                       any of the    languages,     whose
                                                         authors
with
Iwritings was compelled to read. That one excep
Ition was Virgil.  enjoyed the beauty of his verse,
and the frequent images he drew from Nature.
There was one passage in particular which gave so
perfect a picture of the flight of birds that it seemed
to me as if the genius of the poet must have almost
penetrated, by a kind of inspiration, the secret to which

I had acquired the clue from my father's teaching.
It is the passage in which the first rush of triremes
in starting from a harbour is compared to the first
flight of startled doves from their favourite shelter in
rocky caves. The vehement agitation of their wings
is described in beautiful contrast with the ease, con
              wtraayn.quillIittyisofa    the later
fidence, and                              passage    course  when once
well under                                           which   exhibits in
perfection that complete harmony between the sound
of words and the pictures they are intended to recall
which is one of the highest perfections of poetic form.
The first and the last lines, even when pronounced
in the barbarous English fashion, still more when pro
nounced in the Continental and Scottish fashion, are
perfect examples of the assonance of sound and sense :

 *****' Qualis spelunca subito commota columba
          Radit iter liquidum, celeres neque commovet alas.'

I IBut though am afraid was idle and listless in
IIthewasschaonoloromonmiv, orouws asreafudellr.  of  activity outside  of it.
                                                     My father had a   toler
ably large library, very miscellaneous in its character.
                                                             6--2

84                  MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS      [chap, iv

IYet it was almost entirely deficient in poetry and in
fiction.            read with pleasure those standard works
of Hume and Robertson whose classic style first
Iinspired the young ambition of Edward Gibbon. The

shelves were rich in voyages, and devoured with
intense interest the narratives of Parry and of Scoresby,
I Ias well as of Dampier and of Cook. Of tales about

the French Revolution was never tired, and drank
in from them that horror and hatred of unrestrained
Ihumanity, when let loose from the bonds of authority

and of law, which have ever since retained. All such
books were natural to the taste of boys. But there
Iwere some which exercised over me a great attraction,

respecting which have often wondered since both
as to the cause and the effect. Amongst these were
the famous ' Letters of Junius.' Whether the mystery
Iof their origin was to me a great attraction, as it
undoubtedly was     at the   time they  Iappeared,    find it
difficult to say.            one thing
                    But of                am sure,  that my
pleasure in reading them was not founded on, or
accounted for, by any equivalent knowledge of the
political transactions or of the political personages
I Iwhich were the subject of those famous compositions.
So  far   as can now judge, was         captivated entirely
by  the   vigour of the writing -- by   the incisiveness of
the style, by the strength, and the apparent virtuous-
ness of the indignation they expressed.
  I IAmid all these miscellaneous interests, there was

one to which must refer because am sure it had
a special effect upon me. My father's interest in
mechanics was not purely scientific or theoretical.
He was himself a highly-skilled artisan. Besides
ordinary turning-lathes which abode in a workshop
at the top of the house, he had brought with him to
Ardencaple one of the finest of those beautiful machines
Imade by the firm of Holtzapfel in London which were
IctallwedasRtohsee  Lathes.  am told they are now unknown.

                    only ornamental piece of furniture in the
library ; its elaborate apparatus of polished steel and

1830-34]      MY FATHER'S HANDIWORK                 85

its ' barrels ' of richly-burnished brass were the delight
and wonder of my boyish eyes. With it my father
used to make many beautiful objects of rare woods
and of ivory, and of those lovely materials in com
binations which were highly ornamental. There is
one tropical nut in particular, about the size and shape
of an ordinary hen's egg, out of which he made
pocket drinking-cups with rims of ivory, and these
all his friends were glad to get as valuable presents.
The kernel or seed of the nut occupied a very small
cavity in the centre, and was surrounded by a great
thickness of dense, hard, ligneous material, which
was susceptible of the highest polish. The colour
was of rich yellow brown, and when the cavity was
hollowed out, and the edges of the cup were lipped
by a deep border of the best ivory, the effect was as
charming as it was unique. The tops of snuff-boxes,
the handles for various implements, such, for example,
as his own hatchets for marking trees to be cut, and
many other articles, were the products of his skill.
He mended everything that was broken, even china.
He made the steel     rod to which            the   pdaodlIocrkemoefmbheisr
private post-bag was  attached, and           well
the lovely iridescent colours on the bar of soft iron
which, in a carbonizing bath of hot charcoal, passed
over the rod as the quality of steel was imparted to it.
   The speciality of my father's work was its perfect-

ness. All the joinings, as between wood and ivory or
between different kinds of wood, were so smooth as to
be impalpable. Nothing was done in a careless or
slovenly way, nothing was scamped. Surfaces out of
sight were as carefully attended to as those exposed to
view. Nothing of strength or of solidity, in so far as
these were requisite, was sacrificed to appearance. He
used to inveigh against careless or superficial work
as a discredit and disgrace. He maintained that in
this respect  tthheereCownatsineantgarle--at   difference between the
British and                                   particularly the French
--mechanic. French work, he said, was often super-

86         MY EARLY DAYS AND PURSUITS                             [coat, iv

ficial -- made for the eye alone -- and constantly gave
way under the actual stress of use. As an illus
tration, he used to take out of their case two French

sporting rifles, which had been made for, and sent as a
present to, General Napoleon Bonaparte when he was
in Egypt. The vessel carrying this tribute was cap
tured by one of our cruisers, which happened to be
commanded by an old friend of my father's, a Captain
ICampbell (of Barbrech). The rifles, which were part

of his prize of war, he sent to my father, and still
--posthseesssttohcekms .      They    appeared to be   beautifully made
                          of         wood elaborately   carved, and the
                               fine
flint and steel locks highly wrought and ornamented.
Among the apparent beauties of the locks were the
' pans ' for holding the priming into which the flint
sparks fell to ignite the charge. These pans had all
the appearance of solid gold. But the first time my
father tried the new rifles the deception was revealed ;
the pan, instead of being gold, had been only slightly
gilt, and by the first discharge the gilding was, of course,
corroded and destroyed. My father treated so seri
ously all such sins against the honour of true mechanical
work that he                           spoke of them with indignation
and disgust.              Iatlwwayass  a splendid spirit of truthfulness
carried into the work of the hands, and it was a constant
and an inspiring lesson to me on the value of that spirit
in all work whatever. One of the rules he used to lay
down in his handling of tools, was never to use a tool
for any purpose for which it was not intended. The
tool, he used to say, might probably be spoiled, as well

as the material to which it was wrongly applied, and

Ithe purpose, after all, not attained. In later years

this rule has often come back upon me when have
heard the reckless use made of words which are the

tools and  aimndplemmiesnatpsploief dth--ougtoht.theThegyreaarte  perpetually
misused                                                           damage of

their proper use, to the concealment of the grossest
error, and often to the destruction of all sense of

truth.

1830-34]        ROSE LATHE PATTERNS                                87

IThen there was another lesson which                         imbibed

Isilently and unconsciously from             sheiesindgexmteyrityfa--thheor'ws
           used often to wonder at
work.
by a slight difference of pressure from his finger or his
tool, or by an almost invisible turn of his wrist in holding
it, great effects were produced on the block of wood or
Iof ivory which was revolving before his hand. But

there was another thing saw, and that was that the
finest and most beautiful patterns never were, and
Inever could be, thus produced by any amount of mere
manual dexterity.          saw that the exquisite concentric
lines, the crossing and recrossing of which upon each
other     constituted the                    of what were    then called
' Rose     lathe patterns  '  --betahuetsye  lines followed   with abso

lute mechanical precision certain curves, and                aIll  the
beauty depended on that absolute precision.                        saw

my father so setting the machine that, by its own struc
ture, a certain wobbling movement was established in it
when the whole  was set in motion            by the
                then transferred             to that  dsrtivruincgtu-wreh--eetl.o
My wonder was
its adaptation to a definite end, so that the lovely
pattern was the mere natural consequence of a
mechanism prearranged for the purpose, and was
Ithus, in a sense, automatically produced.                   at that
Itime connected this vivid perception with no argument

of any kind, any more than had long contemplated
in the light of any argument the automatic action of the

Iflight quills in a bird's wing. But in later life, when
came to read and hear of arguments which accounted
Ifor lovely effects in Nature by the mere natural conse

quence of some mechanical necessity, fell back on my
early education and on facts which revealed the fallacy.
The automatic action in human machines, which plays
a large and ever-increasing part in their efficiency,
instead of being that part which takes us behind the
power of human ingenuity, is precisely that part in
which the agency of the human mind stands on its
highest and most conspicuous level.

                    CHAPTER V

                                     1830-38

RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES --VISITS TO ENGLAND

ISo passed quietly the smooth and peaceful years

between 1828, when my mother died, and when first
awoke to memory, and the next great epoch in my life,

Iwhich was the year 1836, when had reached the age of
I Ithirteen. But before enter on that year must go

back for awhile to describe one other element in the

Iatmosphere which breathed during my growing boy
Ihood, which, like others have named, seemed to have
no effect upon me at the time, but which undoubtedly
stored up in my mind some vague general impressions
which were not without their own later influences.
We all know how the political agitations of the years
from 1830 to 1832 awoke, by strangely circuitous
           owf otrhldo.ughItt,  corresponding movements in the
avenues                         Risefoarmlwa--ysthesasiudpptrheasstiotnheof  Whig
religious
measures of Church                                                           some
Irish bishoprics, and other proposals of the same kind,
taken together with the language and arguments by
which they were defended, were among the causes that
set up the undulations which, gathering from more
to more, culminated in the Oxford Movement. The
truth, however, is that a time comes every now and then
in human affairs when new thoughts and aspirations
seem to be epidemic, and it is often difficult, sometimes
impossible, to say what is the particular exciting cause.
   The movement in Scotland took a very different

direction. For a good many years there had been
growing a steady reaction against a dull, unspiritual

                                88

1830-40]  DR. CHALMERS                                                           89

teaching of Christianity which had taken possession of
the pulpit. This reaction had been powerfully stimu
lated by the hold it secured over the masculine
understanding and the fervent eloquence of Thomas
Chalmers. His ministry in the great parish of the Tron
Church in Glasgow was an epoch in the religious history
of Scotland. His famous astronomical discourses, de
livered on week-days in various churches in the city,
drew every man who could afford for an hour to leave
his counter or the Exchange. They were directed to
defend the Christian faith from some of the most subtle

objections which had been suggested by the noblest of
the physical sciences, and they were in themselves a
splendid poem, as well as the embodiment of a powerful
argument. But the strong wine of Chalmers' new con
victions was always poured into the old bottles of the
standards of his Church. He never consciously de
parted from them. He treated them, indeed, with a
robust understanding, and in regard to the tenet which
itnhepoolopguyla--r ensatimmealtyi,onpries dmesotsint acthioanra--cteCrihsatilcmeorfsCafolvuignh'st
powerfully against necessitarian interpretations. He
dwelt with delight on the language of St. Paul in St.
--Lulkaen'gsuaagcceouinntwohficthheheshcipowmrbeicnkedonanthaeppcaoraesnt tloyf  Malta

                                                                                 abso
lute prediction of safety for all the passengers and all
the crew with an equally absolute declaration that these
results must depend on a definite course of conduct.
In this matter Chalmers did good service, although
there was no special danger in respect to it as arising
out of the formularies of his Church.
Chalmers as a philosopher was a disciple of the great
New England theologian, Jonathan Edwards. But,
with an inconsistency in abstract thought, he was a
firm and enlightened preacher of that freedom which is
inseparable from the responsibility of will. Some of his
finest sermons were in vindication of this fundamental
principle. And in this he did but follow faithfully
the authoritative standards of his Church. The idea

90         RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES                                                [chap, v

common in England, that the Church of Scotland is
more ' Calvinist ' than itself
destination, is nothing but a   on the   edrroocrt.rineIt                      of  pre
                                vulgar                                         is  true
that in the Westminster Confession there is a strong
assertion of the pre-ordination of all events, but so also
is there this assertion in the Articles of the Church of
England    (Art. XVII.)  ; and in those Articles, moreover,
it is not                qualified, as it is in the Scottish
           balanced or

Confession, by any equally clear assertion of the freedom
of the will. On the contrary, the Article which deals
expressly with free-will starts with a negation, not
with an affirmation, and is little better than an express
denial of that freedom, or, at all events, a most dubious
assertion of it. Whereas, on the other hand, the corre
sponding Article in the Westminster Confession is an
emphatic assertion of it, in language on which it would
be difficult to improve  (Chap. X.) : '  God hath endued
the will of man with     that natural
                                         liberty that it is
neither forced, nor by any absolute necessity of nature
determined, to good or evil.'
    Chalmers vindicated this doctrine, and threw new
light upon it, in all his teaching, whenever the question

Icame naturally in the way. do not know that he was
Ipeculiar in this, for never heard a predestinarian

sermon in my life from any pulpit in Scotland. But
everything he touched, he touched with power to
impress the truth on the minds of men. He was an

eager student of political economy, and had a splendid
triumph in dealing with the difficult subject of pau
perism in one of the largest city parishes of Glasgow.
When he undertook a campaign in England to defend
the principle of Established Churches, his lectures and
sbpoetehchinesLdornedwoanllacnladssiens,thferomprotvhiencheigs.hesItttomtahye  lowest,
                                                                               be said
with truth that they had a lasting effect on the public
view upon that great and difficult question.

  In Scotland children are taken to church at a very

Iearly age, and the more think of my own early years,
Iand the more have observed the effect of as early years

1830-40]          SABBATARIANISM                         91

Ion the recorded biographies of other men, the more
am convinced that mere children receive impressions
from the atmosphere that surrounds them of which
Ithey are entirely unconscious at the time.
                                                         only
Iremember some sermons of inordinate length, from

which have no recollection of having derived any
ideas whatever.    My father was no   Ithneeovloegr iahne,aradnda
inside the quiet  home of Ardencaple
Idispute or controversy of any kind on religious subjects.

   How early it was that first began even to think of
IarenlyigiodniffiIcuclatinensot
                  besetting    the popular  expositions of
                   distinctly   remember.   But am sure
it was some time during the five years between 1831
and 1836. An anecdote has reached me of my very

early childhood which indicates a somewhat precocious
spirit of independence and of reasoning. The very
rigid rules which came to prevail in Scotland as regards
the observance of Sunday, as representing the Jewish
Sabbath, have been usually ascribed to the influence
of the Puritan history. There is, however, reason to
believe that this idea is erroneous, and that the custom
began in what are called Catholic times, through the
instrumentality of St. Margaret of Norway, Queen of
Scotland. However this may be, one of the things speci
ally forbidden in Scotland      tchheurScuhn.dayIt       whistling,
or even singing, except     on                      was  happened
                                                     so
                            in
that both my father and my mother were very fond of
whistling tunes, and they used to perform duets together

Iin a way which have heard described as very peculiar
Iand attractive. As a child seem to have caught the
Ihabit, and on one occasion was rebuked by my nurse for

whistling on a Sunday. ' Why not ?' am said to have
replied ; ' the birds whistle on Sunday.' This was
undoubtedly a very early essay of what my                BfruietndI
Mr. Lecky would call the rationalistic spirit.
I Ido not think it represented at all the habitual attitude
of my childish mind.        think was disposed, on the
Icontrary, to be submissive to legitimate authority, even

when doubted the reasonableness of its commands.

92                 RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES                [chap. V

On the other hand, I have a consciousness in memory of a
very early tendency to vague speculative thought-- to a
spirit of wonder and perplexity concerning both myself
and the world around me. Some of the lines in Words
worth's well-known ' Ode to Immortality,' from the
recollections of early childhood, are no poetic dream,
Ibut a clodsiemlcyo--unatnedrpianrtsomofe tchaosuegshvtsividanlyd--sruegcgoellsetciot n:s

which

        ' Blank misgivings of a creature
         Moving about in worlds not realized.'

IIThis is an exact description of at least occasional
moods through which        passed. Some were more
distinct than others. One      recollect as vividly as
if it happened yesterday.  It  was on a glorious day
in a fine spring well advanced. The crimson cases of
the sycamore buds were falling through the air,
pushed off by the unfolding flowers and leaves. The
sunlight glowed through these with an intensely lumi
nous green. The whole air was full of song, and even
Imy friends the crows were flying with a peculiar flap

of wing which was full of joy. recollect looking up
into the sky palpitating with light, when, as it seemed,
a voice arose within me saying : ' What can people
mean when they speak of death ? There is no such
Ithing as death. Death is an impossibility.'
      cannot pretend to reduce to any definite, perhaps
I Ito any logical, form the suggestion thus arising in my
mind.   should say, as nearly as can now trace my
thought, that it
                   was   the imminence  maen--d luifneivsoerfsiallilnitgy
of life which was  thus  borne in upon
and so full that it was, and must be, a fountain in-
                                                       The extinction
exhausted and for ever   inlifeex--hatuhsatitbleli.fe  would go on,
of my own share in
Iwhether was or was not there to see it, became an
Iinconceivable idea. When, in long after-years, read
Ithe beautiful little poem of Tennyson called ' Love

and Death,' recognised something of the thought
of my boyish imagination, but with a difference. The

1830-40]     SPECULATIVE THOUGHT                                               93

poem approaches the subject from one side, whilst the
vision that had come to me approaches it from another.
Tennyson sees Death in possession of ' the thymy
ppolostssesosifonP.ara'd"isTeh.'ou  To me Life, not Death,                     w" aths esien
                                    must be gone," said Life,
walks are mine," ' would have been my version of the

I Iinterview. But when came to the later lines,
recognised the near relationship of thought between
the fundamental conception of the poet and that
Iwhich had been so suddenly and so strangely impressed

on my mind when cannot have been more than ten
years old:

          '  Love wept   and spread   his  sheeny vans for flight           ;
                         parted said       This hour is thine :
             Yet ere he                 "

                                       :

             Thou art the shadow of life, and as the tree

             Stands in the sun and shadows all beneath,

             So in the light of great eternity

             Life eminent creates the shade of death ;

             The shadow passe th when the tree shall fall,

             But I shall reign for ever over all.'"'

Whatever may be thought of my early imagination,
'itbliasnkcemrtiasignilvyingn.o' t  IwthaatddWedorndoswnoerwth   meant by a
                                                                doubt to the
burdens of life. Rather, on the contrary, it tended
             if not      bteosertemuso--ve,namtheelyh, etahvisie, stthaoft  all the
to lighten,  which                                                          every
misgivings
thing ends in death. Although in my mind at the
IItime it was absolutely unconnected with any religious

thought, saw afterwards, and see now, that it was
awthilcehasrtegianrdhsaarsmiotsnygrewaitthrestuhlat tthiadtea'   of Christianity
                                                                mortality might

be Iscwaanllnoowtesdayu, phoowf elifvee.r', that the range of my specula
tive faculties tended always in the same direction.
They were always set agoing by suggestions from
external Nature, never by             tIhtecasnungogteshtaiovnes   of          books
or of human conversation.                                         been          more

than a year or two after my vivid impression of the

94                            RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES           [chap, v

eternity of life that another very different impression
was made upon my mind by      thweasstamrruychvainutlteroefsnteidghitn.

In the year 1832 my father
the predicted reappearance of the comet known in
astronomy as Encke's comet, from that                         German
observer having calculated its   orbit in 1828.
true to the anticipated time.                                 It came
                                 It was indeed
                                                             a far less
Iistcthotremwikeatitnsospgvweoarhfynicdthvhiesciobhnlheisag,pvhiecaeunslotdivuetsmodwyoetbforajetoschefteertthihnueasenlcadatessttreolevletifarteaok.leseouSestthiiltetlo,r,
and to talk of it to our tutor. The effect which the

Imysterious visitant, and the speculations which

Iheard about its nature, produced upon me can only
Idescribe in those other words                of Tennyson,   of which

   was then entirely ignorant :

                              ' Pitiless, passionless eyes,

      Cold fires, yet with power to burn and brand

      His nothingness into man.1

I was oppressed by the immensities of Time and Space.
IThey entered into my very soul as a serious trouble.

   did not ask, as the Psalmist does, a question based
      tmheindafcuclep' teodf  maannd--uandqouuebstteiodn  fact that the Creator
on                                                        pointing to his small-
is '
ness, and dwelling with wonder and adoration on the
place which nevertheless he has been allowed to occupy
in the dealings of the Almighty with the universe.
                              which arose in
                               misgiving --a
  'The question                               my mind was    founded
                                              doubt whether
on a real ' blank                                            it could

be true that a world, so infinitesimally small amidst

countless millions of other worlds that it might be
likened to a single grain of sand in the middle of the
Sahara, could be the seat or theatre of such great
transactions as those enrolled in the system of Christian

Ibelief. When read, a little later, the astronomical
Idiscourses of Dr. Chalmers, found that this phase of

unbelief was one of those with which he dealt ; and
one of the arguments he used, drawn from the regions

1830-tO]  SPECULATIVE THOUGHT                                      95

of analogy, struck me much at the time, and has often

recurred to me since. It was common, he pointed
out, that in human history the fate of great empires
          gdeeocgidraepdhoicnalsoimmpeofritealndceof--baotntlesominefinliittetlseimraidllgye
has been
small in

of hills, or on the banks of some narrow stream, or
on the shores of some little island. There was, in fact,

no relation whatever between the bigness of such an
area or such a spot and the greatness of the issues
which might be decided on it. This, however, like
every other true analogy, is only one particular appli
cation of a general law, which establishes an absolute

irrelevancy and incommensurability between the di
mensions of matter and the power of the spiritual

agencies with which it may be externally associated.
There is, however, nothing like the teaching effect of

difficulties if they are sincerely dealt with. No man
so appreciates any ray of light which can dispel them
Ias he whom they have deeply exercised.
                                         have since
Iwondered how even at that time failed to see that
the physical littleness of man, and of his whole earthly
habitation, cast a glorious light on the marvel of that
intellect which could penetrate the depths of space
' and pour the light of demonstration over the most
Iwondrous of Nature's mysteries.'
  But thoughtful as was in the sense of being mentally
Iawake and highly receptive to many obscure sugges

tions, was not so consecutively thoughtful as to rise
to this conception, still less to pursue it to its many
Ifar-reaching
I--as true as
          aitppwlaicsatiimonpso. rtantf--ellthbaat,ckaftueproanll  the idea
                                                                       heard
of astronomy, it left us in such profound ignorance on
the nature of the heavenly bodies, that it was idle to
found, upon our very meagre knowledge of them, an
argument or conclusion adverse to any beliefs which
had solid foundations in consciousness, or in observa
tion of the condition and history of our own planet.
Any clear light from these sources, even if it left much
utterly unknown and unexplained, was a safer guide

96                 RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES                              [chap. V

than guesses or assumptions about the nebulous
luminosities which were faintly visible in the depths
of space, and of which absolutely nothing that was
relevant could be known.
      IIn this argument with myself, begun so early and
often renewed    inItafwtears-yeraigrsh,t      was partly right and
partly wrong.
                                             to dismiss perplexities
Iftouwnadsedwornonagssutompctoinonclsudwehicthhamt igfuhrtthbeer  quite erroneous.

                                                                   knowledge, to
Itbe relevant, must necessarily be unattainable.
would     have   helped me   much            --atnatmhaetly,timthee  to know
what   I   have   now lived  to see                                  birth of
Ithat science which one of its leading spirits has called
the ' new astronomy.'                    suppose that in its measure
as a purely mental effort, Newton's discovery of the
law of gravitation still stands where it has ever stood,
      the supreme  achievement of the intellect of man.
aIts  may well be  questioned, however, whether a still
wider door and still longer vistas have not been
opened out into the mysteries of knowledge by the
discovery of the spectroscope, and by the significance
of the ideas it has established. Equal to the dis
covery of gravitation in its bearing on our estimate
of man, it is immensely superior to                  itItinwaistsinbdeeaerdinga

on our estimate of his earthly home.

great triumph to be enabled to know the paths and
the masses of many of the heavenly bodies. But it
was a still greater and a more unexpected triumph
to be enabled to know the physical constitution and
                                         of  every visibly luminous
the chemical     ucnoivmeprsoes.itioInt  is  part of this astonishing
body in the
revelation that few, and probably none, of the elements
           which    exist  eovfeoryuwrsh--ertehaint
of matter  little  world                             space are absent
from this
                                                     it contains them
all, and that it contains them, too, in forms of com
bination and under conditions of temperature which
are absent elsewhere, but which alone have fitted it

to be the abode of what we know as organic life.
      But if the year 1835 was something of an epoch in my

           VISIT TO LEAMINGTON                                          97

life, with its comet and its first introduction to the
confounding problems of astronomy, the following
year, 1836, was an epoch much more practical and im
Imediate.  have referred to the great effect of a mere
Ichange of place and scene on my fife as a child, when
Iwas removed to a farmhouse not three miles off from

my early home ; and now have to note a corresponding
effect upon my life as a boy of thirteen, by my first
introduction to a new country. Up to that date my
life was almost as ' sessile ' as that of a limpet.
  IOn our occasional visits to Inveraray, my brother

and spent our whole time in learning to fish with
fly, and in practising that art, in which we acquired
very considerable proficiency. We could both cast a
long line, and could make the fly alight with accuracy
in  whatever bit of stream  or eddy was most likely
to                          taste which has remained
    hold a trout. It is a
Iwith me through life, and in which have spent
many pleasant hours by stream and lake, and even
sea; for there are a few spots in Scotland where
salmon can be taken with fly in rapid tideways from
Ioff the shore. As regards our visits to Campbeltown,
    have no recollection of interest except one, and
that is seeing the militia practise ball-cartridge at a
target inside of an open quarry. The range must have
been not more than 80 yards. But with ' Brown Bess '
acinedntantounrpernadcetrisebdullc'so-repysesthescdairsctea.nceItwaiss
                                                                        quite suffi
                                                                        almost like
going back to the days of bows and arrows to think of
the change in firearms which has taken place in my
own memory.

  In 1836 my father determined on taking us all to
England. The object in view was health. For a good
many years both my brother and myself had been liable
to sudden attacks of illness from some affection of the
liver. In my case recoveries had been generally rapid
and complete, but in my brother' s case the attacks
were observed to leave a gradually increasing debility,
lwhich caused anxiety to my father. According to
    vol. 1

98                VISIT TO ENGLAND                 [CHAP. V

Iwhat seems to be a law of Nature, have no recollection
Iof the suffering, but have a most vivid recollection of
Ithe joys of convalescence. Nor, as is usual with boys,

did at all notice my brother's declining strength.
    The medical fame of Dr. Jephson at Leamington in
Warwickshire was then at its height, and my father
was advised to try for my brother and myself the
waters of   that          and   the system of its  --emfirisntentot
physician.    Of  place,  we   posted all the way
                  course

Manchester, where my father had friends of the name
of Stirling, who were large mill-owners. My father's
mechanical tastes were gratified by the ingenious
Imachinery, in which many automatic improvements

had then only lately been introduced. There reheard
and relearned the great lesson that automatic work is
Ithe very highest result of contriving mind and of

directing will. was delighted and impressed by the
Iimmense steam-engines which supplied the moving

power to a thousand wheels and spindles ; but was
not less fatigued and oppressed by the heat and smell
Iof oil which pervaded the building. The fatigue and

exhaustion which felt from any but the very shortest
stay in the mills were not forgotten by me when the
Factory Acts became in later years the subject of
agitation, and the recollection was one of the influences

which made me a keen supporter of my friend Lord
Shaftesbury, in his great efforts for the redemption of
women and children from exhausting labour in the mills.
  IThe waterless landscapes of England were an absolute

novelty to me. All the hills had ever seen had their
Ifeet in the waves, or else were within sight of the water.

  soon learned, however, to admire the abundant trees,
the comfortable farms, and the pleasant windings of the

road among endless fields of luxuriant grass. A few
incidents  appealed to my own            cpuurirosuusits,suabnjedcto--ne
of these   is connected with a  special
                                 very
Inamely, the varying range of some species of birds as
to geographical distribution.   had often as a child

admired the characteristic figure of the starling among

1836]                        POSTING INNS                                      99

IBewick's famous woodcuts. But had never seen the
Ibird. It was unknown in Dumbartonshire when was
Ia boy, nor had ever seen it in the adjoining county of
IArgyll. The first sight of a starling was therefore an
tehveenetxoafcgtrepalatcientewrheesrtetoitmoec, caunrdredr.emIetmwbaesr  to this day
                                                                          at North
allerton in Yorkshire, whilst my father's carriage was
                             at the inn. There for               the first time
Ichsaanwginagsthaorlrisnegs  sitting on the roof of a            house, and, of
course, immediately recognised it. Yet this bird is
now as common in the West of Scotland as it is in most
       aogfo.EngIltanbdre. edsItinbheugnandreitdss                about thirty
parts                                               invasion     Rosneath and
years                                               both at

at Inveraray, and its lively manners and rapid flight are
a great addition to the interest of our woods and fields.
  IAnother standing impression of our journey was one

lost to the new generation. refer to the inns at which
we slept on our leisurely stages to the South. They
seemed to me the perfection of cleanliness, comfort,

and sometimes of picturesqueness. A chief delight of
the old inns was their admirable posting arrangements
--neatly dressed postilions, with good, strong, and fast
horses, trotting at an exhilarating pace through a
lovely country at the steady rate of from eight to
ten miles an hour. No doubt this was a pleasure
confined to the              bwaedalsthuibesrtituctleas--sesat;   but    the stage
coaches were no                                                          in summer
                                                                 least,
-- and the sounding bugle with the dashing four-in-
hand rushing past along the winding roads and under
the overhanging boughs of the ' greenwood tree '

Iwere among the delights of English life. Nor must
omit to mention one feature   --ofthEenglolnisgh                  rural scenery
which was entirely new to me                                     and capacious
                                                                            by four,
waggons drawn by             tinwosmhoorcske-sf,rocskosm--etitmhees      '  wain ' of
and driven by men
poets. Their curious long and narrow prototypes
which are drawn by dove-gray oxen in Italy are not
Imore new to the English traveller than these great

English wains were then to me. hope the iron horse
                                                                         7--2

100        VISIT TO ENGLAND                                  [OHAP. V

Ihas not abolished them, like so many other things.
have not seen one for many years.
The Northern counties of England are not much
unlike some of the Lowlands of Scotland. There

are the same great stretches of bareness devoted
to agriculture, with such wood as exists disposed
ginrouseppsarartoeundplanthtaetiofnasrmhaonudseiss.olateItd   patches, or in

we entered the Midland counties that                         wI afsirstnosatwuanntidl
appreciated the typical characteristics of English
         But there,   as the  road   poafssfeodliagoeve--r
Iscenery.             seemed  a sea                            some
            saw what                                         a vast
eminence,
plain apparently covered with forest, with church
spires and towers rising out of it, and marking by the
perspective the distances of a wide horizon ; the fine
green in the foreground merging gradually and softly
into more and more fading tints of blue, till the vast
plain seemed to meet the sky. This sight gave me a
new and vivid sense of admiration, which still makes
me feel how true the poet's words are that ' a thing of
Ibeauty is a joy for ever.'as Iwadsidalal tthLeeammoirnegtsotnru,ckthbayt
Ithe effect when found,
it resulted from no forests, or even very large woods,
which are comparatively few, but entirely from the
universal margining of almost every separate field with
timber trees in its hedgerows. This, again, was the
indication of a land full of ancient homes, and imme
morial settlement. From it primeval forests had so
long disappeared that 'clearances' had been effaced.
The whole surface was covered with the growths of
unnumbered generations, each having ornamented its
enclosures by planting in them oak and elm.
IIn no part of England is this lovely scenery more
typically shown than in Warwickshire.                        was never

tired either of the general effect as seen from any rising
ground, or of the detail as seen on the roads or along
the many footpaths which crossed the fields. The
Imagnificent oaks and elms were a perpetual delight.
   But must turn from the country to the place and

1836]                 DR. JEPHSON                                      101

to the man who was at that time attracting half
England to the woods and fields of Warwickshire.
There is nothing more curious and pathetic in the his
tory of human disease and suffering than the occasional
and sudden rise of masters and of systems of treatment
that attain a wide celebrity, and apparently                           wide
success, and then suddenly disappear for ever.           aIt           does

nItotlogoikvse  one   a high idea of medicine as a science.
                      the temporary sway of fashion, largely
                like
Ifounded on personal influence, not unmingled with

delusion. And yet am satisfied that there is an
explanation which at least diminishes the many decep

tive elements. It is no fancy that in the medical as

well as in any other profession there are every now
and then men with a wonderful power of diagnosis.
Neither is it any delusion that such men are some
times also remarkable personalities, who impress their
patients with confidence and persuade them to obedi
ence. Then, there     iasndalwoaf ylsifes--omsoemdeecreidlaexdatcihoanngferomin
the routine of diet
business, some rest of thought ; whilst to all these
powerful influences there is often added some mineral
water which, simply as water, irrespective of its dis
solved contents, may have a great effect upon the

system.

  All these influences were combined at Leamington
under the famous Dr. Jephson in the third and
fourth decades of the nineteenth century. But
he had better weapons in reserve on which his
real success depended. He had a most gentle and
charming voice when speaking seriously. There was
as much benevolence as humour in his countenance,
and, like most remarkable men, he had a beautiful and
eI xsphreasllsivneevsemr ilfeo.rgeHt--isI  patients all
                                            still seem   came to love  --hitmhe.
                                                         to hear them
low, serious, and persuasive tones in which he addressed
me after having heard all the particulars of my case,
and after having examined me himself. The purport
was to impress me with the idea that my frequent

102                VISIT TO ENGLAND  [chap, v

illnesses were notSjto be trifled with, that they were

Iserious and might be dangerous, but that with care

might live to be, if not a strong, at least a fairly healthy

Iman.              had brought our fly -rods with

   My brother and
us from Scotland, under the delusion that we might
find occasion for their use in Warwickshire. When
we saw the river Learn we were terribly disappointed.
But the feeling gave way to great interest in the new
fish and the new methods of fishing which we saw for

the first time in England. In the Highlands of Scot
land there are no fish in the rivers except the Sal-
monidae and a few eels. All the fish called coarse
fish in England are absolutely wanting. Clear and
rapid rivers have too little food and far too strong a
current to hold such fish. They were, therefore, all
quite new to me, and, however poor as objects of
sport, they were certainly interesting as objects of
natural history. Their beauty, too, is really very
great. The red fins and the brilliant silvery scales
Iof the bream, the dace, and the chub make very hand

some fish. But the one admired most of all was
the bleak, that lovely little fresh-water herring which
swims in small shoals near the surface of sluggish rivers,
and is very active in picking up flies and other food
floating upon it.
The great delight of our lives at Leamington was
the magnificent deer-park of Stoneleigh Abbey, the
family place of the Leighs of that ilk. The then Lord
Leigh had been a friend of my father in his early
life, and he most kindly allowed us to shoot rabbits
in his park, and to fish in a tributary of the Avon
which runs through it, and past the house. The deer-
park and the home - park of Stoneleigh Abbey were
mIimntey,cthfaiaernsntdhwiaonirrttdlrdlom.ydaubdcIeettiosawanaiddst,eoteopothf eeacxnopisduatrrslkeian,sstciaanenbgnyseorilomyutthpoeerfleyrsEsncnioogenulwa.nntdrt.yoI
have often since tried to analyze the cause of

1836]   EARLY IMPRESSIONS OF ENGLAND            103

Ithis.  had not been unaccustomed to fine trees.
The woods of Inveraray are full of them, especially

Iof splendid specimens of beech and pine. But
Ido not recollect that in those early years of my

life had ever been struck by them. What was new
in England was the wide expanse of ancient turf,
varied by fern and by magnificent oak timber. The
oak is indeed indigenous in Scotland. Many of our
hills are well clothed with oak-coppice, and there are
some fairly large standard trees. But oaks such as
are common in English parks are unknown in Scot
land. The tree needs for its perfection the rich, deep,
loamy clays which are common in England ; and, of
course, very ancient planting is required. There can
be no doubt that a great oak, which may be as old as
the Conquest, is indeed the very ' monarch of the
forest.' Its massive limbs and the character of their
growth, as well as of the leaves, are all majestic and
Iimposing. The specimens in Stoneleigh Park are

among the finest have ever seen, and they still dwell
on the horizon of my memory as a splendour and a
delight. The beautiful lines of Mrs. Hemans on the
stately and the pleasant homes of England always
recall the happy memories of Stoneleigh Abbey.
   Turning now to a very different class of first im

Ipressions, it was at Leamington Parish Church that

first heard the English Prayer-Book service. In 1836,
let me remind the reader, the famous Oxford Movement
was in its full swing. The air was ringing with the
cry of Puseyism.    But the influence of  ttoheOnxefwords.choIotl
of thought was    then merely confined
had not yet leavened or changed the ordinary conduct

Iof public worship. Under these circumstances,
heard the service performed in a way that could not
make on me any favourable impression. A droning
clerk, whose pronunciation was guiltless of an h,
repeated almost alone the responses ; the reading of
the whole service was such as to conceal as much
as possible the beauty and power of the individual

104               VISIT TO ENGLAND                               [chap. V

prayers; and the repetitions of the Litany sounded to me
very formal. In one country church near Leamington
the choir was accompanied by flutes and fiddles. The
change in all this in my time has been indeed enormous
and in the main beneficent. But to me the new
habit of intoning monotonously all prayers, as well
as all Psalms, completely deprives them of expression,
and is almost as mechanical as the droning of the
old clerks. Good and expressive reading is above all
                  --tAoinsdbvreisnruygchoofurteetandthianegse--formrvceoernyainnradritesb,eealafl.austy!  of
things required                                                                                           in
the Scriptures.
all the churches
IAlthough heard at that time more or less frequent
Ireference in conversation to Puseyism, never did
Ihear any definite account of it, and                            received

nothing   amoRroemthaanniziangvagmuoeveimmpernets.sionIt  that   somehow
                                                                 happened
it was                                                     so
that there was then resident at Leamington the
aged mother of Dr. Hook, the famous Vicar of
Leeds, who was one of the leaders of the older
school of Anglican High Churchism. With this old
lady and her agreeable and  BeuxtceIllendto               daughter we
all became very intimate.                                 not recollect
that we ever heard from them any expressions of
sympathy with the new Oxford Movement. The
creed of   the                          School, if           it  Iwtaas lwvaeyrys
narrow,   was   older High Church
                at least intelligible  and robust.
seemed to me a sort of glorified John Bullism. The
            and fitful  HcehnarnygeVs IIeIf.f,ecEteddwainrd  the Church
successive  reigns of                                         VI.. Eliza
during the
beth, and James, in so far exactly as these changes
went, were considered, precisely where they stopped,
and in their exact condition when they were arrested,
to have culminated in the absolute perfection, not
only of human, but of Divine wisdom. The result
was the only true via media. All other churches
in every part of Christendom were, by comparison,
more or less false and wrong. This patriotic, not
to say provincial creed, was so natural to an

1836]            NATURAL HISTORY                                              105

Iinsular school of thought that it never excited
my surprise.     first began to encounter it in the
Hooks. But although in later years it has become
largely absorbed in, and amalgamated with, ten
dencies inherent in Newman's teaching, yet at that
time it still stood apart, and their close kindred was
unknown to me.
With the end of the summer of 1836 we all returned
to Ardencaple, and resumed that strictly home and
Irural life which we had led from childhood.
                                                                              came
back with an entirely new stock of impressions of
natural beauty ; and the sense of difference enhanced

Igreatly my appreciation of my native landscapes.
I Ifelt admired them as had never done before. In
natural history, too, the seeing of even a few new
species had been a great interest to me. Among
fishes, the whole group belonging to the English
rivers ; among insects, the cockchafer ; among flowers,
tinheWwairldw-iccoknsvhoilrveu--lusw,erewuhnickhnogwrnewinevSecnotloanndth;e   roads
                                                                              among

mammals, one     bat  cwuarsioseitqyua--lly     new to me,                    and
greatly excited  my                          the Vespertilio                  alti-
volans. My father's conversation on flight had often
referred to the only flying animal, besides birds, which
is now existing in the world. He used to point out
how exactly the same mechanical laws were utilized
and obeyed in the structure of a bat's wing as in the
wings of birds, notwithstanding the great difference
in the organic materials employed. The bones in the
wings of bats taper to the tips exactly like the feathers
of the bird, and with exactly the same purpose to
serve. The fluttering, almost butterfly, flight of the
smaller bat does not remind us much of the bird's
Iflight. But in the large high-flying bat, the V. alti-

volans, saw the true likeness, and was much interested
by its very different habits.

  In the autumn and winter months following our
return home, my father saw with increasing anxiety
that my brother's health had gained nothing from

106           RETURN TO ARDENCAPLE                      [chap, v

the treatment at Leamington.    Hstiesadsitlyre. ngtIh   seemed
to decline, slowly indeed, but
                                                        did not
observe it ; young people never do observe such changes
or think of them. Wordsworth's lines in his poem of
' We are Seven ' apply to boyhood, and even to youth,
as much as to mere childhood :

     ' A little child that lightly draws its breath,

             And feels its life in every limb,
          What should it know of death ?'

IEven near the end never realized that there was
Iany danger. Then one day in April, 1837, was out
I Ishooting with an air-gun, when a message was sent

for me, and when ran home found my brother

in articulo mortis, and in a moment he had quietly

passed away.
My father was very much shocked and distressed
by the death of his eldest son, and it was in connec
tion with this event that a circumstance occurred
which left on his mind, as it did on my own, a very
deep impression. Immediately opposite the window
of the room where my brother died, and where his
body lay, there were two large ash-trees, the branches
of which extended towards the castle, and approached
the walls within some twenty or thirty feet. As these
branches were also opposite the schoolroom, and my
eIyme awyasalmacocsutstsoamy etdhattoervaenrgyetwamigoonfgththeemmwcaosnfsatamnitlliya,r
I Ito me. On the day after my brother's death, when

the morning came, and when first looked out, saw
a white dove sitting on the end of a broken bough
which was nearest to the window of the darkened
            The   bird was    sittIitngcominmaancdreoducmhinygimamttei
chamber.  quite  motionless.
tude and
Idiate attention and surprise, because not only had
Inever seen a pigeon sitting on that tree before, but
knew that, as a rule, tame domestic pigeons never do
perch on trees, unless in places where the position of
the dovecot leaves them no choice. The habit of

1837]     MY BROTHER'S DEATH              107

choosing buildings to perch upon, almost to the ex
clusion of trees, is due to the fact that all our domestic
breeds of pigeons come from the rock pigeons, and
not from any of the wild species which inhabit and

Ibreed in woods. So surprised was that it was some
Itime before could satisfy myself that my eyes were
not deceived. My astonishment, however, was much

Igreater when, many hours later in the day, went
out with my father to take a walk, and in passing the
Iash-tree saw the white pigeon still crouching on the
IIbough.  was determined to verify the fact as well
as could ; so, walking to a spot immediately below
Ithe bird, and quite near it, took a pebble from the
gravel and chucked it gently up towards the dove.
She drew herself up as if in a momentary alarm, and
then immediately resumed her vigil in the same atti
tude as before. The same thing was repeated during
Ithe whole of that day, and the       of  the next,
                                     had  been sur
after which the bird disappeared.
          wIhfole
prised and struck by its appearance on the first morn
ing, the impression made on me by its persistence on

Ithe next became one of a mysterious reverence.
Ihad directed my father's attention to it on the first

morning, and could see, although he said little, that
it had a comforting effect upon him. Like most men
whose minds are much given to the pursuits of physical
Iscience, my father was quite destitute of what is
ordinarily called superstition, and  never heard

him refer to stories of apparitions or of Highland
second-sight, except in the tone which is usual with
scientific men. But, on the other hand, he was not
one of those who assume that we know all the
laws of the physical world, or still less of the
spiritual world which is the dwelling-place of the
mind of man. The means of our communication with
that world are very various, and may well be as
incapable of demonstration as so much else which
belongs to our most certain knowledge in the moral
and spiritual spheres of our daily life. That the dove

108                            VISIT TO ENGLAND                        [chap. 

was a real bird, and not any subjective impression
Imerely, had taken care to prove, not only by closer
Isight, but it may almost be said by touch.                            knew

the absolutely unusual character of the bird's conduct,
Iand its variance with the inherited habits of the
species.               have ever since remembered it as a real
response to that yearning for greater light which in
the face of death and sorrow is often so distracting
and oppressive. Those who think that the spirit of
man can receive no intimations from the spiritual
world, conveyed through the special use of means
within what is called the ordinary course of Nature,
                                           tIhehainvteerpnreevtaetriosneenwhaincyh
may   repudiate as             impossible
was   forced upon              me. But
rational defence of the impossibility, or even the im
fporrobgaoboidlit'y*,  which   is thus  assumed. ' Show                a token
                       is one  of the   most natural of           me   prayers
                                                                  all
in seasons of distress ; and possible responses to it
can hardly be denied by any who believe in a living
God.
My brother's death came with a terrible shock of
                         In several ways   it had a
surprise on   me.                                                 mgryealtifee.ffectI.t
                       at all change the   tenor of
But it did   not
only turned into a new channel many tendencies of
thought which had begun before. Although we two
brothers had           obfeeangebrboeutgwhetenupusenotfireolynlytotgweotheyre, awrsi--th
a difference

although, too, many            of our      outdoor  --puIrsuaimts       and
amusements had been             always      common                     very
Iconscious now, on looking back, how much in other

ways had always felt and thought alone. He was
naturally more reserved and silent--perhaps with less
imagination, but obviously very thoughtful and reflec
         But he had none of my enthusiasms, and in our
Itive.I

talk
         kept these very much to myself.                          was especi
ally shy and reserved with              hjiomurninalreIspkeecptt  of
early tendency to write. A                                        of  my very
                                                                      observa-

                               * Ps. lxxxvi. 17.

               RELIGIOUS DIFFICULTIES                                       109

tions on birds was always hidden away carefully in a
locked drawer. Although, therefore, his life held no
inner place    in my   own,   his                the other hand, had
a powerful     effect  upon   it.  loIsts,woans  the first time, since
a childhood too early to receive such impressions, that
death came so very near me. How very near it seemed

Iwas due to the fact that knew my own illnesses had
Ibeen of the same character as his, and conceived
the idea that they would probably run the same course
with           Tbheeensehrioopuesfuvlo--icealmanodstwcoordnsfidoefnDt --r.  Jephson
had    me.                                                                  but only
      indeed
under a strict reserve as to conditions which were

Ihighly contingent. They could not reassure me com

pletely, and although was then rather gaining than

losing in health, it was long before this impression was

removed.
Under these circumstances, my early tendency to
speculative thought took most naturally the direction
which led to religion and theology. My mind was
always inclined to question, and to take note of, rather
than to harbour doubt. And thus began with me that
      of pondering the difficulties
      has remained with me ever
habit

Iwhich
                                                 sionfceC. hriIsftianwebreeliteof
I Isay that was a born sceptic, should certainly give a
Ifalse impression.            had absolutely no aggressive
spirit. But, on the other hand, the logical faculty was
in me deeply seated. The observations and the
reasoning which had grown out of my father's teaching
                       had impressed             uopf onNamtuereth--enrooto, teodf
and investigations      intelligibility
conviction of the
course, exhaustively, but in the sense of the human
mind and reason being thoroughly responsive to the
oI rdwear sof  her facts and  to the purposes of  her methods.
               instinctively                      intelligibility
                              dissatisfied if an
similar in principle could not be traced in the doctrines
of religion. They ought to be responsive to those
moral elements in our spiritual constitution to which
Ialone they are relevant or can be addressed.                               do not,
of course, mean that this abstract and philosophical

110                VISIT TO ENGLAND                                      [chap, v

basis of my thoughts was reasoned out in any such

Iform by me then, when was only a boy of fourteen.
IBut do mean that, looking back now to the attitude

and habit of my thoughts at that time, this is a true
explanation of the course they took, and of the diffi
            encountered,         only then, but through                   a
                                not that was disposed
           of years. It                                                  toI
Iculties they              not
                          was
long course
rebel against legitimate authority. But it was that
needed evidence that any accepted authority should be
indeed   authoritative,   should   beItretrcoougbnliesdablme easdeseupclhy
by the   natural light
                         it shed.
when ideas in themselves irrational, and still more
when ideas repugnant to the moral sense, were insisted
         athrtiiscle' sraodfiarenltigpioouisntfa' iothf.
upon as                                                   darkness  the  circum
   From
ference of my doubts and questionings expanded in all
Idirections, until from time to time during many years,

in the secret council-chambers of my own spirit, have
           to fight for every truth                       whIifchin  can be the
           of knowledge or of faith.                                 later life
had battles

Ibasis either
have had any success in smoothing the path of others
under similar trials, it has been mainly due to the dis
cipline which began with me in 1837. No man who
has not himself known doubt can know, as he ought,
how to deal with it. No one else can know how and
when it mounts most easily the steps of fallacy, and
Iwith what         it may lead     to a blank and                        universal
           eaIste                  immense lesson                        to me to
scepticism.        has been an
feel how near once came at least to the understanding
Iof this condition, and how near, too, in reaction and

revolt once came to the alternative of submission to
a phantom of authority.

   Although the treatment of Dr. Jephson had not pre
vailed to arrest the progress of disease in my brother's
case, my father had not lost faith in it for me, over
whom the complaint had not gained such hold. He

therefore took me back to Leamington in 1837. In
Ithis second visit, of course, the first vivid impressions

of novelty were impossible, and recollect almost

1837]           QUEEN VICTORIA                                                 111

nothing  woaf ribtleinr--daetabiilr,dexI cheapdt  my   identification of the
garden                                            not   seen in Scotland --
and a terrible attack of my old illness. The occasion
of it shows what great mistakes may be made by great
physicians when they do not know all relevant facts.
Lord Leigh of Stoneleigh Abbey had again placed his

Ishootings and his keeper at my disposal, and was
ambitious   to try partridge-shooting                  mfoisrgitvhiengf,irsIt   time
on the 1st  September. With some                                               asked

IDr. Jephson's leave, who offered no objection. The
result was most disastrous.                       toiled many hours on
a hot

IIbecwaamse
         day    through     btehaant-fiebledfsoreanId    stubbles,             and
          very   tired, so                             got home                felt
         in for an attack. Accordingly, it came
                                                                                 on
with a vengeance, and for some days nothing Dr.
Jephson gave me could arrest it. My life was in great

Idanger. At last one evening, from utter exhaustion,
fell asleep, and Dr. Jephson remained with me during

Ithe night, very uncertain whether would ever awake.

IWhen did, he saw that the crisis was past, and saying

' Thank God !' he went away to resume his very full
Iand busy life. My convalescence was as rapid as it had

always been, and was soon as well as usual.
Our departure from Leamington in 1837 was followed
by an episode in my life which can never be forgotten.
A young Queen had then just ascended the throne. My
father wished to see her, and to see his brother, who
was then Lord Steward of the Household. A connec
tion of his own, of whom he had been fond in his early
life, had married an Irish peer, Lord Rossmore, and
they lived in a villa called The Dell, which was actually
built in contact with the wall of Windsor Great Park,
where it crests the rising ground of Cooper's Hill. We
were invited to be the guests of the Rossmores, and
posted all the way from Warwickshire to Windsor.                               wIef
the ordinary sylvan scenery of England, as seen on the
common posting-roads, or in deer-parks like Stoneleigh,
had given me a new sense of beauty, the crown and
glory of that scenery in Windsor Forest threw me

112              VISIT TO ENGLAND  [chap. V

almost into an ecstasy of delight. The windows of the
villa opened on a steep dell or hollow in the forest,
bordered on each side by splendid oak and beech trees.
The open dell was full of fern, and the deer, with
twinkling ears and tossing antlers in alternate light
and shadow, were constantly passing and repassing
beneath us. The massive foliage of the tree-tops in
the middle distance lay below the level of the eye,
which was thus free to range over them to the distant
horizon of a country steeped in the haze of a delicious
blue ; whilst across and above the whole stretched the
vast walls and battlements and towers of Windsor
     its magnificent medieval outline against
     was to me a very dream of beauty, and
ItChaestslek,y.witIht
used to sit on the wall overlooking it, gazing with eyes
nwtheaaIvsttertIwhsaheasantdisnftoimaetldykminwfiarginst--thy vtsdhiesaeeiyoinsnygo.aouffnteghreroPuroirfncwaehrsrosivmawlehvaoet ryhTahtdeonDjgueuseltl
succeeded to the throne, and who excited an interest
and an enthusiasm which has, without abatement, been
Isince transformed into admiration, confidence, grati
tude, and love.   had strolled by myself into the park

one afternoon by the adjacent gate called the Bishop's

IGate, and was walking slowly along the drive which
Ileads in the direction of Virginia Water. Suddenly
heard the distant clatter of horses' hoofs ahead of me,
Iand the sound soon told me they were approaching.

Presently saw through the beautiful perspective of
stems of oak a small cavalcade coming in my direction
at a sharp trot, with two outriders in scarlet livery. Of
IwcwaonoiutduhrsldehceotprhnaPfisesrssimsccoelmuoslMydeinhbtieeosatrenwtrohbbeoeyrtaehhteeqIrrustischitdkoaeon--wd.htLheoenrSdhIyeoMsuaewnwlgbasothuQarrunitdeeisen--hnge,
whose head and face were remarkable for a very noble
Itype of beauty.  had to move off the road to get out
Iof the way, and when uncovered, as the Queen passed
close to me, she returned my salutation with a most

1837-381       INFLUENCE OF MY TUTORS                                               113

gracious bow and smile. The beauty of that smile,
the quickness of her eye, the refinement of her features,
and the slenderness of her form, were the points which

Istruck me most. How much they impressed me it

would be difficult to express. But may say that
the pleasure the first sight of the Queen gave me is

Iindissolubly associated with the many tokens of

gracious kindness with which have been honoured
during a long life, and                            both   political
and personal relations.  tIhtroisugwhellm, annoy  doubt,  since it

has been so ordered, that we cannot foresee the future.
But sometimes it must strike us how, if it had been
foreseen, it would have come upon us with a great and
a glad surprise. Such in my case would have been the

Iknowledge that fifty-nine years after that meeting

with the Queen in Windsor Park, should be able to

Isend to her on her birthday a slight tribute of loyalty

and devotion, in which should introduce in some
detail the circumstances of that happy moment of my

boyhood.

  In the autumn of 1837 we returned to Ardencaple,
and lived the same home-life as before during the rest
of that year and the whole of 1838. Retired as that
life was, it        not wholly  gwuietshtos utofvairniteetrye, st.sincIet
               was  father had
occasionally   my
was one of these who gave to me in the autumn of
1837 a new sensation. None of my tutors had ever
Isopf enretasuopnosn--mtheato, nefrowmordtheoifr          the best
                                praise,  and for              never
                                         of view,
                                 point
                     Neither in aptitude nor in appli
Ihad deserved   it.  proficient in the schoolroom. My
               been
cation had
thoughts had been habitually elsewhere, and such as

Ithey were had kept them almost entirely to myself.
IOne consequence was that had very much accepted
the tutorial valuation of my own abilities, and had a
rather discouraging estimate of my powers. Although
this is undoubtedly better than conceit, it is not alto
Itgheethbeer ttaerwhoof leasnomacecicdoenndtaitliosntimofulumsi.nd,Itancdame  felt   all
                                                                               in   the

vol. i.                                                   8

114                         ARDENCAPLE       [chap. V

visit to my father of a certain Sir James Stewart
of Allanbank, and his wife, in the autumn of 1837.
He was a Scottish Baronet of old family and estate,
whilst his wife was a beautiful and accomplished
woman of much younger years. An artist by nature,
so far as genius and imagination were concerned, he
used to make the most beautiful sketches of medieval

cavalcades of armed knights, winding along mountain-
paths or issuing from castellated gateways, with
lances and pennons in the most picturesque perspec
tive. The peculiarity of those drawings was that

nothing was made out in any detail. A line here
and a dot there, unconnected except by the bonds of
imaginative suggestion, were all that could be seen on
a too close inspection. But there was wonderful
movement in the horses, wonderful dignity in the
riders, and a general effect of the pride and pomp of
Ichivalry, which made these slight sketches more effec
tive than many finished pictures        have seen. He

had a facile brush for all he attempted, seizing always
with a true artistic eye            btihrdess--peacidael acdhahrearcotneresopf eecviaelrlyy
--obwjehcitchhehedrderwe.w          in chalks, were perfect of their
                            Some

                            for me

kind.
ILady Stewart was well versed in Shakespeare, and
an excellent actress.               still vividly recollect a scene
in which she simulated madness, and with such force,
Ithat her husband could not stand it, and interrupted
our entertainment by imploring her to stop.  en

Ijoyed immensely the society of this remarkable couple,

and it was with great surprise that observed the
interest they took in my eager conversations with
        athvearinietetyrporeftasutibojnesctsofcoitn. necIttegdavweithmeNaatunreew,
Ithem on

and with
pleasure at the time, and remember it with pleasure
still.

             CHAPTER VI

                                               1837-39

ROSNEATH -- SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS--MY FATHER'S SUC
      CESSION TO THE DUKEDOM -- SKERRYVORE LIGHT

       HOUSE.

I suppose it is impossible for those who have no special
interest in natural history to realize the delight ex
perienced by others who have that interest in the
first sight of a species entirely new to them. That
delight befell me later in the year 1837. A message
was sent to me from Rosneath that a flight of strange
birds was frequenting the woods of that estate, and
especially one which was called the Darkwood, very
near the castle. That wood occupied the greater
part of      Iptrowmaosntcoormy posseepdaraatlminogsttweontilroevlyelyofbaspyrsucoef
the sea.  a

firs, at least a century old. They had been planted
thickly, and had not been thinned out, till by mutual
pressure all the lower branches had been killed off,
and the stems ran up clean and straight like a wood
of stately masts. Towards the top, with free access
to light and air, they spread out into splendid heads

of foliage. In that particular season, these were
covered with an unusually abundant crop of cones,
Ifull of fertile seeds.  soon found by the debris thrown
Idown upon the ground,

able to shoot, that the
                          and by  bsiprdeciwmaesnsthewhcircohssbilwl a--s
                         strange
Ia comparatively rare and a most curious species.
was immensely interested in its structure and in its
habits. The drawings in books had given me no
accurate idea of the extraordinary bill which has been

                         115 8--2

116                    ROSNEATH                                        [chap. VI

Ispecially adjusted to its special food. Nor had seen
any description of its parrot-like attitudes in clinging
to the cones, head or back downwards, when engaged
in wrenching open      the                               hasdcalIesrewalhizicehd
cover and protect      the  closely-adhering
                            seed. Neither

from books the beautiful colouring of the crossbill.

The hen is indeed sober enough in her dress. But
the cock bird in full plumage is of a splendid scarlet,
whilst the young males have the scarlet feathers
mottled with golden yellow.
The perfect adaptation between the organic struc
ture of animals and the functions which they are
destined to perform, is indeed a conspicuous and uni
versal fact throughout the whole world of living things.

But every here and there particular instances of it
occur which are more striking than others, from the
extreme limitation of the field of operation for which
some special apparatus has been fitted. The cross
bill seems to be a near ally of the finches ; and some
of them, such as the bullfinch and the hawfinch, have
bills well adapted to open a great variety of hard buds
or seeds.   But   the  beak  oof fsethede-ccarsoessabliollneh--asonae
adaptation       one   kind                                            special
            for                                                         of the

toughest and most intractable of all the protective
           wvheigcehtahbalevesebeedesn--pnroavmideelyd,  in Nature     for  the
coverings                                                the cones     of   the
safety of
pine tribe. To gather those generally small seeds
after they have been shed would exhaust the activities
of the most industrious birds. Yet there are enormous
areas of surface both in the old and in the new world
which are entirely covered with pines, and if the
countless millions of seeds produced, over and above
those which are needed for the preservation of the
species, are to be utilized at all, it can only be done by
giving to some animal a special implement by which
access can be gained to the seed before it is scattered
to the winds. The reason, therefore, for the existence

of such an apparatus as the twisted mandibles of the
crossbill is satisfactory enough, when we consider the

1837-39]                  CHEMISTRY                                117

ubiquity of life on our globe, and the system which
undoubtedly prevails of leaving no area wholly un
tenanted by creatures fitted to enjoy it. But how
such a very special apparatus began, and how it seems
to be now confined to two nearly allied species on the
globe, are questions which it is impossible to solve on
any merely mechanical theory of creation. Familiar

Ias was with the idea of adapted means in the flight
I Iof birds, confess was more than ever struck with
Iit when looked at the almost deformed aspect of the
Icrossbill's beak, when felt the powerful muscles at
Ithe root of the jaw, which reminded me of the same

feature in the parrots, and when saw upon the ground
under the pines the dense and tough cones cut, and
Itorn, and rifled of their innermost contents by this

extraordinary bird. Not less was puzzled to under
stand how this flight of crossbills knew that year of
the unusually rich crop of the favourite food in a
country not their own, and far from their usual haunts.
That beautiful wood of pines, all about 100 feet high,

Ihas, alas ! been blown down since then, and have
never seen the crossbill again.

I In 1839 a new interest came to me, for in that year
   came by mere accident to be much impressed by
--onneaomf etlyh,e  most  wonderful of all  Itthehpaphpyseinceadl  sciences
                    that  of chemistry.
                                                                    that a

small estate, consisting of a couple of farms, lying
adjacent to the lands belonging to Inveraray, fell into
the market, and their geographical position induced
my father to buy them. On procuring a very old
map of these, he found the word ' Mine ' on the
area of a heathery moorland belonging to the pro
perty. He had studied chemistry more or less, such
as the science then was, when a young man, with his
friend Dr. Robertson, and  his  library was   well stored
with manuals of analysis.       was always   his greatest
                           It
pleasure to do for himself everything that he needed
to be done in the way of any kind of handiwork.
He directed an immediate search for minerals on the

118               SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS                  [CHAP. VI

ground, and in books for the best methods of testing
the metallic ores. Very little search was needed as
to finding the old ' Mine,' for lumps of a very heavy
ore were found upon the ground, and a low face of
rock in the channel of a rivulet showed whence they
had been taken. A few blasts opened up a new face,
and the ore was seen in considerable quantity in the
bedding of the strata. The greater part of it was a
dense grey ore, evidently some form of sulphuret of
iron. But associated with it were smaller quantities
of the yellow sulphuret of copper, some of which
showed the beautiful iridescent colours of what is
called ' peacock ore.' My father, jumping to the con
clusion that he had found what might prove a valuable
copper-mine, at once sent for a skilled mining engineer
from Cornwall, and in the meantime set to work on the
chemical processes needed to test the quality of the ore.

   In this work he associated me with him, and for a

very considerable time, extending over several years,
one of my greatest amusements was the working of
these mineral analyses. The initiation into the physical
sciences which consists in dealing with the practical
application of them to the purposes of life is a method
which may    not  carry us   vveirrytuefa--r.     But   so far as  it
does go it  has   one great                    that of   making
                                                                   us

familiar with fundamental facts in their characteristic

phenomena, and thus preparing us to understand and
to assimilate the continuous results of investigation
into the more abstract conceptions, which are always
the highest results to be obtained.
Chemistry was in a very different condition from
that in which it now stands, when my father studied
it. Dalton had not then reached that atomic theory
which placed on a true physical basis the curious
intuitive imaginings of some of the oldest of the
Greek philosophers. The doctrine of the ' valency '
of those atoms, each according to its kind, to form
an intimate union with a definite number of others
of a different kind, and with neither more nor less of

1837-39]  CHEMICAL AFFINITY                                                                  119

these --this doctrine had not been reached. Dalton's
discovery of it had not been published till some
years after my father's escape from the clutches of
Napoleon, and when his life in the House of Commons
had diverted his attention from such pursuits. When
he resumed them for a practical purpose in 1839, he
Ihad not grasped the new atomic philosophy of chemical

combination, as certainly never heard him mention
it. But, none the less, the main fact was known of

special chemical affinities prevailing among the elements
of matter, and of the consequent power which was given
to mental processes both in the analysis and synthesis
of natural substances, so that all combinations could
be pulled to pieces, and some of them recombined
with powers and properties absolutely different.
   This was the great mystery of chemical affinity, and
it still remains a mystery, none the less, but all the
more, since the seat of it has been traced to certain
ultimate particles of differentiated matter, all of which
have some inalienable property in certain special
qualities and powers. Without learning anything of
Iultimate atoms and molecules, such as are now handled

by the mind as known existences, saw in the com
paratively simple operations of getting pure metallic
copper out of its ores some of the most curious examples
of the power which was given to intelligence by even
an empirical knowledge of the laws of chemical affinity.
We tried in vain to overcome by intense heat and fusion
the desperate tenacity with which iron, copper, and
sulphur were held together in one amalgamated
material. But we always failed. We could find no
extraneous substance which as a ' flux ' would so unite
wTbhoittehtormtehseuolitfrotnohfeaancldrl uscouiublrplehm--urewltaainssgtsoa--lwleatahyvese
                                                                                             the copper pure.
                                                                                             ' button ' at the
                                                                                             the same useless
mixture, only a little more concentrated. So we were
driven to the ' wet process ' -- that is to say, the method
of dissolving the ore in acids, and then dealing with the
combined solution by adding to it certain appropriate

120            SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS                              [chap. VI

reagents. Reducing the ore to the liquid state by heat
had produced no effect in tearing its ingredients
asunder. But reducing it to a liquid state by dissolving
it in powerful acids made them at once accessible to
such different and imperious affinities that they could
no longer resist the separation we desired.

  I was intensely interested in the absolutely new
Iphenomena which saw produced. The solution of
solid salt or of sugar in water or in tea is a process so
quiet and so familiar that we are lulled to sleep over
the wonder which it really involves. But when the

raw metallic ores of iron, copper, and sulphur are
exposed to the potent acids which dissolve even gold,
then the fierceness of chemical affinities is seen in forms
which at once arrest attention. Violent effervescence,
with the sudden
of choking fumes     eovfolua tipoonisoonfogurseagtash--eaatl,l  and the rise
                                                                 these attest
the action of a force still utterly unknown in its ultimate
nature, but certainly one of the most powerful in the
making of the world. Then came another wonder, still
further illustrating the virtues of this force in the
management of matter. The dissolved ore, with
whatever metals it contained, resulted in a liquid,
transparent and green in colour. On strong ammonia
being added,    the  mtruadn.spaIrtenwtasliqthueid   became instantly
as thick as a  red                                  red oxide of iron,
the whole of which metal was thrown down in floccu-
lent masses, thus separating that metal, in virtue of its
violent affinity with the abundant oxygen supplied

by the ammonia. In search as we were for copper,
nothing could look more hopeless than this hideous
mass. But we were told by the books that, whilst
ammonia threw down the iron as a solid rust, it would
continue to hold the copper in solution, when the red
sediment was separated by a filter. And so, when this
was tested, great was my delight and surprise when a
liquid was seen draining through the filter, perfectly
clear and of a most exquisite purple-blue. The further
processes required for getting this copper again sepa-

1837-39]  CRAIGTTRE COPPER                                      121

rated from its solutions we found more difficult and
tedious. We therefore betook ourselves to a process
which was shorter in reaching the pure metal, and which
illustrated yet another of the mysteries of chemical
affinity. Instead of treating the dissolved ore with a
view to eliminating first the iron, we applied a method

which separated the copper first, by presenting to it
an irresistible attraction. Bands of polished iron were
dipped into the solution. On the surface of these the
copper instantly began to be deposited in the pure
metallic form. By prolonged immersion, these iron
bands became deeply covered with a deposit of powdery
copper, which could be easily collected, and then melted
in a crucible. My father made the mould of a minia
ture ingot, and highly delighted we both were when
the first ingot of pure copper was procured, and was
stamped with the word ' Craigure,' the name of the
farm on which the mine had been discovered.

  The saying that ' A little knowledge is a dangerous

thing ' is far from being a wise proverb, unless the

application made of it be very limited indeed. It is
true, of course, that very fragmentary knowledge on
any subject may lead to erroneous conclusions. But
all human knowledge on all subjects whatever is very

limited, and it is most untrue that, so far as it goes, if
it be well employed, it is an evil rather than a good.
My knowledge of chemistry has always been a little
knowledge only ; but, so far as it goes, it has been of
great use to me in later years, not only in practical
affairs, but in enabling me to detect in controversy
the extravagant pretensions which have been asserted
from its  Idtisecnoavebrleieds   in  some modern systems of
                                     to see how absolutely the  philo
sophy.                          me                              forces

of chemical affinity must be under the control of mind
ihmfaetvhitneogyseaaenreyhotsowp,ebceiifaulosrefgudanncftoiziroendtshemtoamttdaeiksricnhbgaergoaef.'ccoomIntbcoienunaratsibeolneosdf

atoms,' it was impossible that the concourse could be
' fortuitous.' It enabled me to see how futile it is to

122            SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS                       [CHAP. VI

pretend that, because we can make artificially, by
chemical syntheses, a few waste products of the living
body, we have gained thereby any clue to the methods
by which vital organs have been built up, out of the
common elements of matter, for the discharge of their

mysterious functions.

   But neither natural history nor chemistry had ever
Iput an end to the very miscellaneous character of my
reading.     When exactly,  atorthhisowtimeexacItlyh, ad  do not
clearly   remember, but                                   become
awakened to a keen interest in politics -- not, however
so much   in   their                            as in their historical
aspect.   As   far as  Icocnatnemtrupostramryy  memory, it had begun
Iin my old familiarity with the writings of Junius. In

ranging over the library, had found the well-known
edition of Pitt's speeches, which, imperfect as it is,
contains all that later generations can know of that
Ilofty eloquence which so long enchained both Parlia
ment and the people.        took to reading them with
avidity, and became a devoted Pittite. His phase of
political opinion died out with the glorious conclusion
of the great war for the liberties of Europe, of which
Pitt had been the life and soul. That great cause was
the hinge on which everything turned with him. But
as regards the tendency of his opinions on other

matters, it is well known that Pitt to his dying day
considered himself a Whig. The impression made

Itupon me by his speeches has never been effaced.

armed me against the gross misrepresentations of his
conduct and policy, which became the stock inheritance
of the degenerate Whigs who followed the banner of
Charles James Fox, and who survived in the feeble
IGovernments which succeeded the administration of

Earl Grey. From Pitt passed to Burke, and the

groundwork of my political feelings was deeply laid on
Ithe

In
     speeches  of the one and on the writings of the other.
     1839 my   enthusiastic admiration of the oratory of
Pitt knew no bounds, and well recollect victimizing
an unfortunate Dr. Anderson, who came from Glasgow

1837-39]        DEATH OF MY UNCLE                                             123

to attend my father in an illness, by reading aloud
to him some of Pitt's denunciations of Napoleon, in
Ievening hours when the poor man could not escape.

   Out of doors at that time had a somewhat new
pursuit, in hand-line fishing in the sea. My father had
a severe illness, during which his food was a principal
care. He was very fond of fish, but only if it was
perfectly fresh. There was at that time a bank of
vGearryeloscmha, llawndhittiongtshastomspeottwIo  and   a half       miles up the
                                                  used  to go        in a rowing-
boat, for a time every day, to catch enough whitings
for my father's dinner. But it has been my habit
throughout life to mingle intense delight in beautiful
scenery, or in the sports of the field, with whatever
IiInhtealvleectnuoaldoiunbtet rethstatwinas18u3p9p,eirfmocsot uladt  the time ; and
                                                                     have looked for
Iany sympathy on the part of listeners, should have
been rolling out some favourite sentence of Mr. Pitt
when waiting patiently for a bite, and when watching
the lovely blues which bathed the knotted surfaces of
the Argyllshire mountains. My father's recovery was
slow, and those old home days, full of increasing in
terests, remained uninterrupted till, in the autumn of
that year, an event occurred which in a moment
changed the whole outward surroundings of my life.
   IVery early in the morning of the 24th October, 1839,
I
   was fast asleep, when felt myself suddenly shaken
Iup by someone standing beside my bed. On looking

up, saw my old friend and early host, Lome Campbell,
bending over me with an expression of much trouble on
his face.   On   asking him     what              was the            matter,  he re
            in  two words,   '                    uncle.'             ' What  about
plied only                      Your
I Ihim ?' asked. ' He's gone,' was the reply. As had
I IIjumped to the conclusion that

to my father, confess         was
                                                  something had happened
                                                  greatly relieved.           had

never even seen my uncle. He was a mere name to me,
and nothing more ; and though my father had never
            to any of us of his brother's faults and follies,
sIpohkaedn  somehow acquired, to say the least, a very

124  SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS  [chap. VI

 negative impression of his character. What had
happened was this. My uncle had come down to
 Inveraray to spend a few weeks of the autumn at his
early home. My father's illness alone had prevented
him from going to visit his brother. The Duke had
some symptoms which had alarmed his friends, but he
had been riding about his place upon a pony with enjoy
ment every day. On the evening of October 23rd he
sat down to dinner with a very few friends, of whom
Lome Campbell was one, and was sitting opposite.
Folding his arms across his breast, a favourite attitude
with him, he gave some direction to the servants,
and then he was seen to drop his chin on his chest,
and so to remain, as if asleep. Lome Campbell ran
round the table to him, and found him to be stone-

dead.

   As soon as the consternation of the guests had
passed off, Lome Campbell immediately posted all
the way to Ardencaple, and came first to me, knowing
the delicate state of my father's health at the time.

IDespite many years of unfortunate differences, the two

brothers had been much attached, and was struck by
the shock\which my father evidently experienced on

hearing of the Duke's very sudden death.

   My father's succession to the dukedom of Argyll
came upon me as a great surprise, and as the lifting of a

Icurtain on a completely new sphere of life. Somehow,

   had never realized the probability beforehand. Of
course, it had been a probability for many years, and
almost a certainty for several. To the best of my

Irecollection, nobody had ever spoken of the succession

to me, and had certainly never spent upon the

Iprospect of it even one moment's serious thought.

   had a happy home, full of very various interests,
which wholly occupied my attention. But now when
that change of position actually came, it came at a
time when my growing interest in politics made me
appreciate the wider horizon which was thus opened
to my view. This was the real difference it made to

<' 1600


1839]     MR. HOWSON MY TUTOR                                              125

me. It did not at all alter my pursuits, but it opened
to them a larger field of exercise.
   My father took the wise step of engaging for me
an English tutor, a gentleman destined to take Orders
in the Church of England. He had been quite right in
choosing Scotsmen during my earlier years, and it has
been a real misfortune for Scotland that so many of
her sons  oefdtuhceathioignh. estItcldaisvsoerscehdavtehehmadfraonmesxycmluspiavtehlyy
Anglican
with the people in some of their most national character
istics, and at a critical time it rendered them incap
able, as we shall soon see, of even understanding the
most fundamental facts and problems of Scottish
legislation. But after having been educated hitherto
wholly in Scotland, it was high time to place me in
nearer contact with ideas and associations of a different
oserdleecrt,ioanndinforthtehisgepnutrlpeomseanm, yJ.fatSh.erHomwasdoen,an
                                                                            excellent
                                                                           who ulti

mately rose to be Dean of Chester, and became well
known in literature as the joint-author with Mr. Cony-
beare of that ' Life of St. Paul ' which is a standard
work in English schools and colleges.
    Mr. Howson was an attached member of his Church.
But he was not in any way bigoted or narrow-minded,
Iand always attended the Established Church service

in Scotland with me. From him first heard an
objection to extempore prayer in public worship,
mwobhejiecchintioanltat--thearatnyteiomabrejse. cptuiozInztlewdreasmstien,ignanoodnnehtahsseeonrfseteelantaioinnptehroyefssitctehadel
hspeaacreingandandtimuen. deIrtstatnadkeinsg     faculties    to the       laws of
                                              a  certain    fraction       of time,

he  argued, before the ear  can hear any uttered sentence.
    takes another fraction  of time before the intelligence
It
can translate that sentence into thought. But by that
time a new sentence will have been begun, and will
be on its way. The result was, he thought, that it is
impossible to convert into conscious supplication any
sentence except the previous one to that which actually

126          SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS                                         [chap. VI

occupies the ear, so that the worshipper must always
be one sentence behind the minister, so far as the
possibility of real supplication is concerned. Listen
ing to one sentence whilst we are praying a previous one
     adcifcfoicmupltlyishwmaesntenhteirecloyuldnenwottounmdeer.staIntd.struck
Iwas an

   This
me as fallacious, but so ingenious that did not see
twhheerfeuinndathmeenfatalllacaysslauym. ptiTohnesreofwtahsenaortghuinmgenatb.surIdt     in
              true that a                                                                is
             reaching the
undoubtedly                             fraction   of time is occupied
by sound in
                                       ear. It    is less obvious, but it
is equally true, that after the sound has reached the
Iear another fraction of time is occupied in converting

it into thought. What did not then fully under
stand was that these two fractions of time are so minute
that they do not appreciably affect the combined
result where the mind and the ear are equally on the
alert. The velocity of mere sound, as such, within
any distances so small as those which affect this
question, is so great that, practically, there is an
instantaneous passage between the speaker and the
hearer. The velocity, again, of that telegraphic
motion along the nerves which converts mere sound
ienqtuoalilnyteilnligaipbplerecwiaobrldes--isatprlaeacstitc, awllhyerseo  great that it  is
                                                                                         is
                                                                          the language
a familiar tongue. And, then, it is to be remembered
that although the quickness of any intelligence in
translating into thought the written or the spoken
symbols of it must vary with the familiarity of the
symbols, yet in the case of all forms of Christian
prayer the words and phrases used belong to a very
limited cycle of expression, the sequence of which
generally suggests itself to the mind as each word is
beginning to be heard. The result is that the end of
the sentence is foreknown long before it is actually
heard, so that practically, if the listening mind is really

intent, the theoretical difficulty is never felt. Yet it
cwaalsledce"rtfarienely prsaoyefrel"t  by   Howson, to whom what is
                                       was  a new thing in the regular

1839] PRAYERS AND LITURGIES                               127

services of religion. But although, as a universal
objection to such prayer, it was open to an effectual
answer, that answer depended on conditions which
are certainly not always present. Those conditions
are close attention, and a sustained effort to keep it
up. Without this, it is impossible to convert into real
prayer any words which are not our own. Mere
Ireverent and sympathetic              to   the prayers of
                           listening       is not personal
other men is not prayer    in us.     It
supplication. And am convinced that a large part
of every congregation in Scotland are no more than
sympathetic listeners to the minister when he engages

in free prayer.

  A certain number of devout souls, and these only,
are capable of that enwrapt attention which can alone
enable them to keep up the mental attitude of suppli

cation for every sentence as it reaches them. There
may be occasions of great general emotion when
people are deeply impressed with a common religious
sentiment, and on such occasions the proportion
of such devout souls may be indefinitely increased.
But in the ordinary course of public worship the
number of them is but limited. But when we thus
come to trace out exactly wherein the difficulty

lies, it becomes obvious that it is not met or
obviated by the exclusive use of liturgical forms of
prayer. Without close attention, the continual repeti
Ition of stereotyped words and phrases     is quite sure  to
                                           automatic.
become more or less unconscious and                       It
may be easier, and think it is, to keep up this sus
tained attention when the forms of prayer are short,
simple, direct, and full of meaning. This is the great
beauty of almost all the collects and shorter prayers
in the English service. But no one who has listened
to the responses of large English congregations can
help receiving the impression that they may easily be,
and very often are, repeated more or less absently
and mechanically. This is a difficulty and a danger
which cannot be escaped even when the written prayer

128  SCIENTIFIC INTERESTS  [chap. VI

unites all the highest conceivable qualifications of
beauty in language and of concentration in religious
thought. Of this the Lord's Prayer is the great

example. Our very familiarity with it tends to lull
us into sleepy and rhythmical repetitions, accom
panied by little consciousness of the power and sweep
of the few and simple petitions which it seeks of the
Heavenly Father. How few of us can repeat the words
* Thy kingdom come ' with any adequate understanding
of a petition which, if fulfilled, would transform the

world.
   Looking, then, to these kindred difficulties affecting

both free and liturgical prayers, it has always appeared
to me to be irrational that either should exclusively be
adopted in public worship. Considering the varieties
of mental habit which exist in every Christian congre
gation, it is evident that both may be of great advan
tage. There is an incomparable beauty and impress-
iveness in the old liturgical prayers, so combined with
brevity that they unquestionably lend themselves more
easily than any other to the most genuine spirit of
supplication. On the other hand, the great varieties
of circumstances by which our lives are surrounded
make it unreasonable to debar the Christian minister
from spontaneous and adapted prayer. Nothing but
the inveterate prejudices of early custom, and of party
spirit, can account for the passionate exclusiveness
with which the different systems have been advocated
or denounced in England and in Scotland. Then,
besides all this, it is to be remembered that in Presby
terian and Congregational churches that which is called
' free prayer ' is in reality nothing of the kind. The
prayers are generally written and learnt by heart, and
even where they are not so repeated they are largely
composed of stereotyped forms of expression which are
perpetually recurring. Nothing is gained in them so
far as any expectation of an inspired spontaneity is
concerned, whilst considered as devout compositions
their merit is terribly unequal.

1839] MY FATHER'S SUCCESSION AND DIFFICULTIES 129

My new tutor, although not a man of any com
manding abilities, and of little originality, was widely
read, and introduced me to many new branches of

literature. In particular, he led me for the first time
to read the Lake poets. Wordsworth soon took a
firm hold upon me, and both Coleridge and Southey
gave me much pleasure. As regards these last, later
years have not confirmed my first impression, except
in respect to a few pieces and a few passages, such as
' The Ancient Mariner ' and ' They sin who tell us love
can die.' But as regards Wordsworth, my first great
delight in him has been often renewed. Even the

Iponderous pages of ' The Excursion ' and ' The Prelude '

have never, when have had time to read them, ceased
to throw over me a certain spell of calm and poetic
contemplation. Not until many years later was my

Iallegiance divided by that other and, as think, that

still greater poet who has ' filled the spacious times of
great Victoria with sounds that echo still.'
The extravagance and carelessness of my uncle's
early life had landed him in embarrassments which
led to the estates being put under trust, and to his
having led the life of an absentee for many years in
England. On my father's succession, the trust lapsed,
and he lost no time in establishing that personal inter
course with a numerous tenantry which had been long
wanting in his brother's case. His love of country
pursuits and a strong hereditary attachment to his
people and estates led him to visit them all, and to
reside more or less on several, as soon as possible after
his succession. He took me with him on all these
visits, and we were everywhere received with enthu
siasm by the people. Besides re-establishing his early
home at Inveraray, he went                                        to the
largest and most interesting  as  hsiosonestaastepso--sstihblaet  which
                              of
embraced a large part of the district of Kintyre.
Perhaps no part of the county of Argyll is so full of
varied interest even to a stranger. Geologically,

geographically, historically, and economically it is
vol. i.
                                              9

130  MY FATHER'S SUCCESSION                                         [chap, vi

curious -- in some respects singular. It is impossible
to look at the map of Scotland without being struck
by those wide-stretching arms of the sea which run
far up into the land, and which all lie in one prevailing
direction, from north-east to south-west.
Conspicuous among the intervening blocks of land
is that long and narrow promontory called Kintyre,
which stretches so far to the south-west that it only
terminates within some twelve miles of the Irish coast.
The geologist cannot fail to wonder at those deep-
seated terrestrial movements which alone can account
for such a distribution of sea and land, and which,
especially, could alone ridge up such a long, narrow
neck from out the      bordering hollows                  Itofis  the
                      not less curious.                            a     sea.
Geographically it is                                                   most
inconvenient barrier in the way of navigation between
the mainland of Scotland and the north-western coast,
with all its islands. Historically it was honoured by
the first footsteps of Columba and of his followers, one
of whom, called Kiaran, made a fine inlet of the sea near
itsKpinoitnytrehiswahseatdhqeuamrotesrts
                                           of missionary   labour.  fertile
                                          southern and    the most
region which was colonized by that Celtic race from
Ireland which, through strange passages of history,
ultimately imposed its name upon the whole of
Scotland. Politically it had been long held during the
tumultuous epoch of the clans by the sept of the
Macdonalds, whose cousinship with the invaders of
the North of Ireland and with the wild Hebridean
population, predisposed them to hostility to the
Central Scottish monarchy founded by Malcolm Can-
more. To the cause of that monarchy my ancestors
had been always true, and their active loyalty, ever
since its restoration in the days of Robert Bruce, had
been rewarded by a commission to conquer the lands,
and by a charter of possession.
   Economically Kintyre was not less full of interest,
by the clear example it afforded of the process by
which alone the wretched husbandmen of the old

1839]     KINTYRE                                                        131

Celtic clans could be replaced by the substitution
of a race more mixed in blood, more civilized,
and more accustomed to look for their subsistence
to the pursuits of lawful industry. The Mac-
donalds were compelled to withdraw with all their
          --foplalorwtleyrs,byansduchmyHiagnhclaenstdoerrss              the
fighting                                                     repeopled    be
country                                                        as could

reclaimed, and largely by inviting a settlement of the
persecuted Covenanters from the opposite coast of
Ayrshire, who brought with them the knowledge of
that more advanced system of baronry which had even
then begun in the Low Country. The disastrous old
Highland system of communal holdings, in which the
superior intelligence of any one man was kept down
under the stupidity of many others, and by the ruinous
customs of an hereditary ignorance, gave place
gradually, but as speedily as possible, to individual
favours, in which every man could be sure of securing
the advantages of his own industry and thrift, and of
the landlord's help in capital.
  For a good many years this fine estate had been
under the management of two gentlemen, father and
son, of the name of Stewart, with whom agricultural
improvement was a passion, and by whose wise advice
large sums were yearly expended by the landlord in

supplying improved equipments for every farm as it
fell out of lease. All this was new to me, and it was

an education in itself. It familiarized me with the
fundamental facts of economic science, so far as these
are exhibited in the most ancient of all industries and
under the most favourable conditions of civilized life.
A highly intelligent tenantry being gradually supplied
with more comfortable houses, great peat mosses
becoming yearly more and more restricted in area as
improvements encroached upon them round all the
borders --such were the scenes among which we lived
when we took up our residence in Kintyre on the shores
of that magnificent harbour which used to be called
Loch Kilchearon, but is now known as Campbeltown

                                                             9--2

132     MY FATHER'S SUCCESSION                             [chap. VI

Loch. In olden times it had often been crowded with
the fleets of the Kings of Scotland on their way
to subdue, if possible, the disloyal Hebridean clans.
Now it is often crowded with ships running in for
shelter from the storms that vex the North Channel.
Then, to me, there were other attractions. The
spacious moors, well stocked with grouse, commanded
the most splendid views over sea and land and
island. The almost complete absence of trees, except
in a few glens and sheltered spots, lent itself to that
abundance of light which is so enjoyable on the
western coasts. The great flights of plover, like little
wandering clouds against the clear sky, and the
gannets plunging into green water along the shores,

weIrte  a perpetual  delight.  of  this  first  visit  to  Campbel
        was on the   occasion

Itown, after the succession of my father to the dukedom,

that was called upon to make my first public speech,
on the occasion of being presented with the freedom of
I Ithe burgh by the municipality, early in August, 1840.

  have no recollection of what said, or only just so
Imuch of it as to be sure that it was as entirely common

place as is usual on such occasions. But have a
vivid recollection of the impression made upon the
Iaudience, chiefly due to my very youthful appearance
combined with a naturally powerful voice.                  was
Ithen only seventeen years of age, and looked even
younger than my years.             was much amused by
hearing that a venerable old Highlander, who had been
the chief doctor in Campeltown for half a century,
Iand always wore an old-fashioned yellow wig, was so

astonished by my speech that, when sat down, he
could only gasp to his next neighbour, ' D'ye hear the

boy ?'
My father's desire to visit all his estates, and see
personally the condition of the people, coincided in
1840 with a special call on his attention which
appealed to all his love of mechanical science in
the happiest of its applications. The west coast of

1840]          TIREE AND COLL                                133

Scotland, as is well known, is shielded from the

open ocean by a great archipelago of islands, which
are arranged, roughly speaking, in two great parallel
lines, like battleships at a review. The inner line
stretches from the north end of Skye to the southern
end of Islay. The outer line, at from twenty to forty
miles farther into the ocean, stretches from the butt
of Lewis on the north to Barra Head in the south.
One part, however, of the wide space of sea which
separates these two lines of islands is occupied by an
intervening group of two islands, Tiree and Coll,
which lie contiguous to each other.
The whole of Tiree and part of Coll belonged to the
estates of the Argyll family. The Coll portion had
       alienated before my    Iftatihsera'sn                 But
been   still remained to us.                   succession.
Tiree                                         island unlike  any

of the other Hebrides. They are all more or less hilly

-- some of them strongly mountainous. In Tiree the
highest elevation is 300 feet, and two other lower
elevations are called ' Bens ' by the islanders. Eleven
miles long by from three to five miles broad, it lies
so low in the  water that it is like a great raft            oItf
sand and rock  and meadow anchored in the deep.
was once larger than it is now, since ancient peat
mosses extend from the shore under the sea. A very
slight depression of the land would submerge a large

part of it and convert it into a complicated group of
rocky islets. Some such submergence of a once more
extended surface is the probable explanation of a great
cluster of rocks which breaks the rollers of the Atlantic

at a distance of twelve miles to the south-west of Tiree.

Facing the ocean as those rocks do, at a point south of
Barra Head, and where, consequently, they are open
to the full stretch of some 2,000 miles of wave, they
cannot be approached by boats without danger, except
in the calmest weather. Yet, as they lie right in the
fairway of navigation for ships running south from
the North of Scotland, between the Outer and the Inner
Hebrides, and as it was known that they had been the

134         SKERRYVORE LIGHTHOUSE                                        [chap. VI

scene of many shipwrecks, so disastrous that not a
soul ever did, or ever could, survive to tell the tale,
the Commissioners of Northern Lights had determined
to erect upon them, if possible, a lighthouse on the
plan of the Eddystone, only larger and stronger, in
proportion to the exposure. This difficult and most
dangerous enterprise they entrusted to their own
engineer, Mr. Alan Stevenson, by whom, after some
years of the most toilsome and anxious labour, it was
conducted to a triumphant conclusion. Mr. Stevenson
was a member of that distinguished family which in
recent years has made a notable contribution to the
literature of our time in the writings of R. Louis
Stevenson.
    My father had taken a deep interest in the work,
and had offered to contribute from his estate the whole
stone needed for the building. This, together with
his well-known scientific interest in all such works,

induced the Commissioners to ask him to lay the

foundation-stone when, on July 7th, 1840, the pre
liminary operations had been so far advanced as to
admit of such a  caecrceemptoendy--baeninxgiopuossstioblev. isitThthise  invita
tion he eagerly
                                                                          estate

and people, as well as to see one of the noblest engineer
ing undertakings of his time. Taking his whole family
with him, he hired a special steamer to take us to the
island of Tiree. The weather was magnificent, the
anchorage in the open bay of Gott perfectly calm, and
our house on the island fairly comfortable, as well as
interesting from its site, surrounded on all sides but
one by the waters of a small fresh-water lake.
    I can hardly exaggerate the complete novelty to
Ime                                                                      thus
                                                                         even
for
    of the scenery     inotfrothdeucHeedb. rideIts  to which was
    the first time                                  was far greater

than the contrast between my early home and the
wooded lanes of Warwickshire, or the forest dells of
Windsor. Everything was new. There was not only
           but there   was not even a bush upon the island.
no  tree,  absolutely   bare and open to the sky, and to
    was
It

1840]  TIEEE AND COLL  135

every wind that blew. On the other hand, there was
an abundance and exuberance of the richest meadow
grasses, a corresponding abundance of that curious and
charming bird the landrail or corncrake, and such a
population of skylarks that the air was always ringing
with their music. And humanity there had as novel
an aspect as external Nature. With the exception of
some three or four slated farmhouses and manses,

Ithere was not a single human habitation in the island

that was like anything had ever seen before. Some,
indeed, were hovels more like the temporary shelters
of wandering tinkers than anything else. But all the
tenantry and most of the cottagers dwelt in comfort
able houses of a type which is almost peculiar to that
island. The walls were low, and always double. The
roof was of neat straw thatch, somewhat beehive in
shape, and resting always on the innermost of the two
walls, so that the space between the two walls, being
filled with sand, made a sort of broad ledge or bastion
round the roof. On this ledge the women and children,
and often the men, sat or stood in groups to see us as
we passed. We were everywhere received with the
greatest enthusiasm, no member of the family having
visited them before, although their affairs had occupied
much of the attention of my grandfather and of his
predecessors, and although they had good reason to
know the benevolence of the management. My
father's presence among them was therefore hailed
with delight, and with a warm-heartedness which
was yet totally devoid of the least appearance of

servility.

  It was a large and teeming population, approaching

at that time to nearly 5,000 souls. They were well clad,
cheerful, and evidently happy, as yet untainted by the
passions of the demagogue and the ignorance of fools.
In one respect we were all terribly ignorant, and
terribly unconscious of the precarious foundation of all
this abounding prosperity and contentment. Nobody
then foresaw the potato disease, and the consequent

136       SKERRYVORE LIGHTHOUSE                                               [CHAP. VI

failure of the main subsistence of the people. It was,
indeed, evident enough that their cereal cultivation was
very primitive. Many of the corn crops were more
          thItanwagsreneont, icferaobmle,thteooa, btuhnadtanthceereofwtehree
yellow                                                                        golden
daisy.                                                                        few or
no turnips. But a naturally fertile soil, a soft climate,
not less wet than the mainland, and an almost complete
exemption from frosts in winter, secured such an
aanbdunhdeaanltthsyu. pplIyt  of fodder that the cattle seemed fat
                              was evident that many of the com
forts of life were attainable with a minimum of exertion.

The sea provided abundant adjuncts, and whole shoals
of small saith and other fish, drying in the sun on rocks
or boards, testified to the facility with which they were

secured.

There were some aspects of Nature which were new
to me in this visit to Tiree, and which made upon me
a correspondingly strong impression. One was the
striking way in which a perfectly familiar object may
assume a wholly new appearance when seen under
Inew conditions. There is no object more familiar to
us than the moon.             had seen her all my life, as every
child does, risen or rising over trees and houses and
Iall the other furniture of earth. But from Tiree for

the first time saw her rising out of the ocean, and
moving slowly across the heavenly vault with no

Iearthly object to distract the eye. There for the first

time saw that appearance of a face upon her disc,
which, when seen, has an expression so melancholy and
severe, as to give a somewhat weird emphasis to that
wonderful solemnity which cannot but impress us when
we contemplate the apparently slow, but absolutely

regulated, movements of the heavenly bodies. In our
Northern atmosphere, full of watery vapours, we never
do see the moon as it is seen continually in the East,
and even in the South of Europe, as visibly a globe
or ball hanging in the clear atmosphere, with the

eternities of space behind it. In our vaporous air we
always see it as a flat disc. But even thus, when it

1840]        MOUNTAINS                                                       137

is seen apart from all terrestrial settings, it is an

impressive sight.

   A similar lesson on the effects of novelty in surround
ing conditions on our senses, or rather on our imagina
tions, was taught me by a circumstance of scenery in
Tiree. One of the little elevations on the island which
are dignified with the name of hills happens to be cut
or broken into a precipice on one side. That hill is
the one presented to the Atlantic, and it consequently
forms a

Isea-fowl
       paret citphietoubsreseedai-ncgliff,seainshoan.biteIdt  by innumerable
had ever seen, and both in                                    was the first
                                                 respect to           itcsreapthuyrseisc--al
aspect and to its treasure                        of                 it struck and
                                                 and  wguinllgse--d
guillemots,  mraezoimrbmillesn, sepluyf.finsI,t  is a curious law of our
interested

being by which a space which we consider trifling on
the horizontal or on a merely inclined surface becomes
invested with an awful majesty when it assumes the
perpendicular. The highest mountains in the world
are nothing but distances stuck on end, which we should
think quite trifling when seen in the                         pIltainsusggbeestlos wa.
This is a most useful lesson in science.
good deal when we come to think of the forces by which
our mountains may have been formed. They seem to
us gigantic, and such as demand for their elevation
some tremendous energies, which we find it difficult
to conceive ; whereas in reality they are quite trifling
in the scale of the magnitude of the globe. They
scarcely do more than roughen its surface. Our
difficulty in realizing this conception is the parent
of much                             reasoning in              all questions  of
terrestrial  epxthryasviacsg.antIf    any internal               causes are  in

operation which can produce earth-movements at all,
the wonder is, not that our mountains should be so
high or our sea so deep, but that the inequalities of
the surface of the earth should be so infinitesimally

Ismall.
      am not sure that, among the things new to me,
the most impressive was not the ground-swell of the

138  SKERRYVORE LIGHTHOUSE  [chap. VI

IAtlantic Ocean. In the narrow and sheltered arms

of the sea to which had been accustomed this great
swell is never felt or seen. The movement is quenched
by the resistance of innumerable and complicated
shores long before it comes to the inner reaches of
estuaries and lochs. My only idea of waves was that
Iof water roughened directly by the winds which might

be actually blowing at the moment, and had no
Idifficulty in conceiving them as of far greater size in

the open ocean. But the swell which first saw at
Tiree was something very different. When no wind
was blowing at all, or only the gentlest breath of air,
Iwhen the surface of the ocean was as calm as a surface

of glass or oil, saw vast undulations, in which acres
of water were in movement, and which advanced with
a silent, majestic motion that arrested all my attention
and surprise. A first impression of danger from them
was irresistible, and it was noticeable how angrily they
seemed to resent the smallest obstacle or resistance.
On meeting shallows, still more in encountering rocks,
they at once rose in threatening and rapidly advancing
crests, and then broke in furious foam and surge. On
the other hand, the smallest boat seemed safe upon
them, although the hollows into which it fell and the
ridges over which it was lifted were so great that it went
out of sight from time to time as if it had been sunk
and lost. Then, there was no visible cause of motion.

Why did it not subside ? It seemed like the restless
Idmwwiahfefsimecrhtoeornymtceooffruaolodmwldonntovhdteaexetrav,teoiaonfnfcdasu,esfrciirinnenena.ttthsioe.nItw, oIwatrabldsowuaaotsf,mitmos--otinioadtno.mtsyoTpsthetaeealrlrkyey,
a movement on the water, but not a movement of  iItt.
The water did not advance with the undulation.
did not even seem to advance at all. A body floating
on its surface was simply lifted and again allowed to

Ifall, but otherwise was left undisturbed in place.
did not then know how more than justified my wonder
was, and that there are conceptions connected with

1840]           SHELL SAND                        139

the phenomena of undulations in all liquid substances
which are among the most difficult to apprehend in
all the physical sciences. Like Wordsworth with his
daffodils,

                                                    1 1 little thought
                 What wealth to me that sight had brought '

--wealth in supplying an analogy under which less
obvious undulations could be conceived; wealth, too,

in suggesting difficulties, such as the question how

far it is possible that the particles of matter can be the
transmitters of a motion in which they do not them
selves partake, even in the least degree ?
  But if certain agencies in Nature, which bear on the
face of them their tremendous power, were brought
vividly before me in Tiree, not less were other agencies
impressed upon me also, which operate so slowly and
Igently as to be unperceived, although their aggregate
work in time may be enormous.        saw no incon
Isiderable part of the island turned into a desert by
blowing sand.   was told of some whole townships of
good arable land which had been thus destroyed.
IThe sand was such as        hIatdwansevneerarlsyeepnu,reorwhhiteea--rd

any description of, before.
Inot like the sands of the ocean, nor like what had
always imagined of the sands of Asiatic or African

Ideserts. On examining it, found it to be composed
Ientirely of shells reduced to powder ; moreover, found
these shells not to be sea-shells, but shells of two species
of land-snails which lived and died in millions on the
natural turf and grass of the island. Like all land-
shells, they are thin and fragile in texture. Whilst
inhabited by the living snail they are protected by a
skin or epidermis, and by apparently some animal
matter on the shell itself. But when the snail dies, the
dead shells become so brittle that they crumble with
the least pressure, and are resolved into a fine dust.
In the           of ages this dust   or sand has  Ictombeeartso,
        course  part of the soil of  the island.
form a  great

140  SKERRYVORE LIGHTHOUSE  [crap, vi

when undisturbed, a short sward of fine grass thick
with trefoils, and affording excellent pasture. But
when once the surface is broken and the wind gets hold
of this very light material, it is continually blown away,
and sometimes is moved in such quantity as to
accumulate like deep wreaths of snow, burying and
ruining the richer soils which alone can bear the crops
of cultivation.

   The helplessness of man in the presence of apparently
small causes, such as the rapid breeding of two little
snails, or, in other countries, of such an insect as the
locust, stands sometimes in strange contrast with the
power of man to confront successfully some of the
most tremendous energies in Nature, when he has
become acquainted with her laws, and when his
knowledge enables him to turn them to account. We
soon had a splendid illustration of this contrast when
we came to the ceremony which was the object of our
visit. The work of laying the foundation-stone of
the Skerryvore Lighthouse in fine weather in the mid
summer of 1840 was, of course, mere child's play to
the hardy and intrepid men who were engaged in
the work. But it seemed formidable to us. The
day was not one of perfect calm, but there was nothing
more than an ordinary breeze. The steamer, of course,
could not approach the rocks nearer than a most
respectful distance. The actual landing could only be
effected in boats, and a small boat rowing amidst the
heavings and swellings of the Atlantic is incompatible
with any feeling of security in those who are tried by it
for the first time. Mr. Alan Stevenson had made
every possible preparation for my father's safe landing,
and by activity in taking the right moment when the
boat rose to the wave, the whole party secured their
footing and landed safely. For the convenience of the
workers, iron gangways and steps led easily to the spot
where the foundation of the tower was laid. That

Isight is as fresh in my memory after an interval of

fifty-seven years as if had seen it yesterday. The

SKERRYVORE LIGHTHOUSE  141

natural surfaces of the rock were irregular in the
highest degree. Worn, broken, and shattered by the
battering of unnumbered ages of the most tremendous
surf, and by the splitting of the rock along lines of
natural fissures, there did not seem one square foot of
rock which was even tolerably level. Yet in the midst
of this torn and fissured surface we suddenly came on
a magnificent circular floor, 42 feet in diameter, as
level as water, and as smooth as a billiard- table. Its
containing walls of living rock rose, round every
portion of its immense circumference of 126 feet, to
varying heights, showing the various depths of
cutting that had been needed to reach a perfectly solid
level. On this floor the whole weight of the tower was
intended to rest. And it was on this weight that the
stability of the enormous structure was entirely to

depend.

   The aim of the engineer was to oppose and resist the
perpetual shock of enormous waves by the simple
inertia of a still more enormous mass, like that of the
living rock. Stevenson had discovered by actual
measurement that the blows with which those waves
struck opposing surfaces were equal to about 3 tons
on every square inch. No reliance could be placed on
the mere binding power of lime or of any other cement
to resist such a force as this. The tower was to be
made as nearly as possible one with the solid rock as
a part of the crust of the earth on which it was to
stand. For this purpose the tower was to have no
cavity till it had attained an elevation of 40 feet.
The highest waves in that sea, measuring from crest
to hollow, were about 15 feet. Forty feet, therefore,
 represented a height more than twice the height of the
largest wave at the Skerryvore. Up to that height
 the tower was to be one solid mass of stones, each
 stone being so hewn and shaped as to be mortised
 into every other stone in contact with it. Moreover,
 in his choice of stone, everything was foreseen and
 provided for by the nicest calculation. The greater

142      SKERRYVORE LIGHTHOUSE                               [chap. VI

part of the tower was to be of granite. But Alan
Stevenson discovered by careful experiment that the
rock of which Tiree is entirely composed is a compound
of minerals harder, tougher, and sensibly heavier than
any granite. Therefore he determined to use it for
Ithe lowest courses of the structure. At that time
Iwas no geologist, and did not know the great interest
Iattaching to that rock. But was an acute observer
Iof                                                          not fail to notice
                                                              large crystalline
its
     avllernyatupreacl uloiabrjecatsp,peaanrdancec--outhlde
surfaces which often glanced in the sun, and the
curious mixture of yellows, reds, and                        whites in contrast
with lines and masses of a jet black.
                                                              It has since been
called the Lawrentian Gneiss, from the great develop

ment of the rock on the banks of the St. Lawrence in
Lower Canada. Later it has been called the Lewisian
Gneiss, because the Isle of Lewis and the whole of the
Outer Hebrides are entirely composed of it. Better
than any of these local names is the Hornblendic
Gneiss, from the predominance of the mineral called

hornblende in its composition. Its enormous geo
logical antiquity has earned for it the additional name
of Archaen Gneiss, as it is the most ancient of all the
rocks which are, or were supposed to be, of sedimentary

origin.
   Later investigations have led some geologists to
suggest that in reality it is, often at least, a Plutonic
rock, on which the appearance of stratification has
been imposed by some rearrangement due to heat,
pressure, and crystallization. Its enormous weight is
largely due to the hornblende, a very heavy mineral
which takes various forms, one of the most curious
of which is asbestos, the only mineral substance in the
wa otrelxdtiwlehiscthufyf.ieldIst  a fibre capable of being woven into
                                   is a rock, of course, most difficult
to dress ; but Alan Stevenson established his working
yard on the island of Tiree, where the material was
at hand in abundance upon the surface. Natural faces
of solid rock lent themselves to quarrying operations.

1840] BUILDING OF THE LIGHTHOUSE                    143

A platform was made of the exact size of the intended
tower. Every stone was hewn and dressed precisely
as it was to lie in the building. Every one of them was
numbered, so that, when transported in lighters to the
Skerryvore, no other operations were needed than to
lift them, carry them, and then fit them into their
places, for which they had already been tried upon the
island. This, however, was a work of great difficulty
and no little danger, from the heavy seas through which
the heavily-laden lighters had to be towed by a steamer,
and from the extreme difficulty of bringing the lighters
safely alongside the rock and of lifting the stones, one
by one, by a powerful crane.
   The most wonderful sight on Skerryvore was
the temporary shelter for the workmen which Alan
Stevenson had erected. Half-gales of wind are con
tinual in those seas, and whole gales not infrequent,
even in summer. When these coincided with full tide,
there was not a spot on the rocks inaccessible to the
breaking billows, and any possible hut or shelter would
have been constantly liable to be swept away. On
the other hand, if the whole gang of workmen must
necessarily be removed by steamer to Tiree, twelve
miles off, and back, during all the hours of rest and
sleep, and all the other hours when the work had to be
suspended for the danger of the surf, a mere fraction
of time would have been given to work, and the com
pletion of the lighthouse would have been indefinitely

postponed, if not rendered impossible altogether.
Stevenson therefore determined to erect a temporary
shelter on the top of legs of timber, so high that the
highest wave could not reach any part of the structure
except the supports, and these, he calculated, could be
so constructed       to   offer little obstruction  toItthies
waves, and so   as  be   able to withstand them.
                to
needless to say that the construction of the supporting
legs was a work of extreme difficulty. They had to be
bolted into sockets in the rock with all the strength
that iron could supply, and they had to be braced

144     SKEBRYVOKE LIGHTHOUSE                                        [CHAP. VI

and tied, and counter-braced and counter-tied, in every
conceivable direction which engineering skill and
science could devise. With infinite labour the pre
liminary work was accomplished, and a barrack was
erected on the top of the legs, capable of holding
thirty men in berths like the cabin of a ship, with
a place for cooking. This was in 1838, and when the
winter compelled a suspension of work upon the rock,
the question was, Would the barrack stand the gales
during that season ? Meantime all other work went
on easily on the island of Tiree ; stones were quarried
and shaped and fitted, ready for the reopening of the
month when work was possible on the rock. Every
day Stevenson could see by a telescope that, against
the far horizon, his pepper-box barrack was still
astnadndiinng,thuenmtilorantinlgas--t        !n--ighhist  a fearful
                                       one                telescope  gale raged,
                                       alas                           could dis

cover no vestige of the barrack. Stevenson now saw
with terrible anxiety, but without despair, not only
that the whole weary and dangerous work must be
done over again, but that he must revise all his calcula
tions as to the plan of the new structure, if it was not
to place in imminent jeopardy the lives of all his men.

In his battle with the sea he had been totally defeated.
Old Ocean had triumphed over the engineer. Until
the permanent tower had been raised to the height at
which its centres were to begin, a shelter barrack was an
absolute necessity, unless the enterprise was to be
abandoned altogether. Such a strain of personal
responsibility for issues so serious and for dangers so
appalling has seldom been laid on one man. But
Stevenson faced them, and faced them with success.
A new
        barrack was erected, on amended lines,                       Iatndstotohde
one we   saw was the monument of his skill.

on the top of immense balks of timber, and rose to
the height of about 60 feet above the rock. The legs
described the figure of a cone, and another cone,
inverted, stood inside of those, with the apex fixed
in the rock at the centre of the circle, and radiating

1840]     STEVENSON THE ENGINEER                               145

outwards, so as to support the legs against impact
from the outside.
This barrack stood the test of the winter of 1839,
and Stevenson could now with some confidence trust
that the lives of his men and his own would be safe in

it during all the months of summer and of the early
autumn. But he and his men had occasionally times
when the sense of danger was terrible to them, and

doubly terrible to him. In one gale, which came on
earlier than usual, the furious waves were dashing
through the legs to a height which left little room to
spare below the bottom of the barrack itself, and he

knew only too well that if they encountered any
obstruction from a larger surface than the legs, the
whole structure would be swept into the breakers.
Every wave as it surged below them made the erection
tremble like a leaf.
The profession of a civil engineer does not often call
for any special gift of personal courage. But, under
such rare conditions as these, it did make that call in an

eminent degree on Stevenson and his men. There was
absolutely nothing to be done but to wait with patience

till the gale abated, and to put what reliance they
could on paper calculations and on a very short
experience. Stevenson told me that one of their few
distractions was to watch an example of Nature's
engineering in the structure and in the powers of an
animal    formed to live  in the sea  and   --abaleratroe  defy its
terrors.    This was the  great gray  seal                 species,

but which still survives in a few lonely places in the
Hebrides. When full grown this seal is quite 8 feet
in length, with an immense body, the size of a
large horse. Stevenson and his men used to watch
the evolutions of these powerful animals during gales
of wind, when they employed the billows of                     thIet
Atlantic as their hobby-horses on which to play.
was their favourite amusement to ride in upon the

crest of a great wave, and then just before it broke
they dived into its green and hollow bosom, coming
vol. i.
                                                           10

146     SKERRYVORE LIGHTHOUSE                                             [chap. VI

out behind the crest--ready to repeat the evolution
as each new roller was formed and took the place of the
one preceding. That the common elements in the
skeleton of all quadrupeds should be so modified and
adapted to an oceanic life, in its apparently most
dangerous forms, is a wonder of far-reaching significance
in biology.

  I heard much of the great seal from the Tiree people,
Iand confess that one of my most eager anticipations
Iin our visit to Skerryvore was the hope of seeing
tahsissoocnreaatsurIe.couldt,hteoreafopreoinstcroavmebrlloeodkinogvear n  the rocks
                                                                           immense
pool of broken water, which occupied a sort of bay in
Ithe outer edges of the reef.  had not watched long
Ibefore saw a creature, which looked like the end of a
Ilog of floating timber, rise in the middle of the foam.

  fired a rifle-ball at him, with no other effect than to
make him plunge out of sight with an angry flourish
of his flippers and an additional churning of the
water.
All this was, it is needless to say, an absolutely new
experience to me. We left Tiree deeply impressed
with the triumph which science enables man to achieve,
and which the impulses of our modern civilization
urge him to undertake. Nor were we all less im
pressed by the character of the man on whom the
whole burden lay. Alan Stevenson was as gentle and
refined as he was brave and strong, and persevering
and inflexible in purpose. My father took a deep
interest in the progress of his work, and lived to see it
well accomplished. On that lonely rock, exposed to
all the fury of the ocean, there now rises for the warning
of the sailor a stupendous column of gneiss and
granite, lighted with a powerful light which flashes its
danger-signals from a height of 160 feet, and to a dis
tance of thirty miles. But, alas ! the accomplished
engineer who built it, through a sustained and tre
mendous battle with the elements, which lasted several

years, suffered from the strain on his nervous system

1841]  ALAN STEVENSON                             147

involved in his anxiety for the lives of so many men
entrusted to his skill and knowledge. This told
disastrously on his constitution, ending  in an attack
of paralysis, and he passed away some     years later --
one of the many men of whom the world hears little,
and would be greatly the better of knowing more.

                                          10--2

                        CHAPTER VII

                                 1839-41

              ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE

In pursuing, however, down to July, 1841, the pas
Isages of life          werheadlittpleassmedoremtyhanforemnelarrgyeemaersn--ts

of those in
              which
              which

passages mainly occupied by the aspects of Nature
I--and  the connection  of these with the physical sciences
        have passed by  some openings which belong to the
Iearlier months of the same year, into which entered
eagerly, finding in them new fields of thought and
Iaction, which were soon to absorb my attention more

than any other. For two previous years had come
gradually and insensibly to take an increasing interest
in politics. The Whig Ministry of Lord Melbourne
was rapidly declining in strength and reputation. A
strong Conservative reaction had set in after the
Reform excitement had passed away, and Sir Robert
IPeel was organizing the Conservative party with con
summate skill and caution.   had no special feeling
Ione way or another on any of the measures of the Whig
Government.   simply looked upon that Government
as the debris of the party which had been led by Lord
Grey, and on Lord Grey as the last survivor of the
party led by  Charles James  IFotxh,outhgehtd, etheardminceadrrieednemhiys
of Mr. Pitt,   and who, as
opposition to flagrantly unpatriotic lengths. In com
plete ignorance, as we all then were, of that splendid
Icharacter of the young Queen, which made all such

fears ridiculous, sympathized with Sir Robert Peel
in his fear of a female Court almost entirely Whig,

1830-41]  OPENING OF PARLIAMENT  149

and thought him right in his refusal to take office in
1839 under such conditions. We all know now that
he was wrong, but only, perhaps, because now we all
know what he could not know then. But although
Lord Melbourne, knowing more of the Queen than any
other politician then did, was undoubtedly right in
supporting the Sovereign in her contention, yet the
resumption of office by an administration, otherwise
discredited, upon a question, as it was then put,
about ' Bedchamber women,' did not tend to increase

my respect for the Government.

 I ISuch was the state of opinion, or of prejudice,

which took with me when accompanied my father
on his going up to London in 1840 to take his

seat in the House of Lords. In that house the

eldest sons of peers had a right to hear the debates,
standing on the steps of the throne. The House
of Commons was much more hospitable than it is
now. Peers and peers' eldest sons had four benches
assigned to them on the floor of the House, close to the
Bar, and on the same level with members of the House.
The enjoyment of the great privilege thus afforded

Iwas, may say, my one delight in London. During
I1840, 1841, and part of 1842, was a more constant

attendant than many of the members.
   The opening of Parliament by the Queen in person

was always a magnificent and a touching sight, the
remembrance of which is now, alas ! almost forgotten,
as it has never been seen by the younger generation.
The presence of ladies in the House, peeresses and
their daughters in magnificent attire, along with the
peers in their robes, filled the House to overflowing
with brilliancy and beauty; whilst the slender form
of the young Queen, seated silently on the throne
during a considerable interval, waiting for the arrival
of the Commons, was a sight never to be forgotten.
Beside her stood her Prime Minister, Lord Melbourne,
holding the Sword of State, and behind her stood the
Duchess of Sutherland, Mistress of the Robes, then

150                ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE                     [CHAP. VII

perhaps the most beautiful and stately woman in
England, as Lord Melbourne was one of the most
dignified and handsome of men. Then, after the
' ugly rush ' of the Commons to the Bar, came that
silver voice, which charmed all ears, in the reading of
the Royal Speech. Every word was distinctly heard to
I--theswaafwasritLnhaetdshtyecWoHroinluheserelom--f itnahfateeSHr toatuhnseheo.DpueT,chhweeshsporeobtfeticeSasumttheweorLlmaandadyn
Dalmeny, and was the mother of the present Lord
Rosebery. She was afterwards Duchess of Cleveland.

  In the House of Lords at that time there was no
                              eminence except Lord Lyndhurst.
Istpewaakser  of   any great  those years to sum up the feeble
              his  habit in

work of the Government during each session by a
speech near its close, and those speeches, with their
great power of scorn, were among the contributory
causes by which Lord Melbourne's administration was
being steadily undermined. But my father never
Istayed in London so late in the season, and at that

time never heard Lord Lyndhurst speak. Dr. Blom-
field, Bishop of London, was indeed an admirable
Ispeaker, but never

heard him only once.
                              spoItkewaosn   secular    affairs, and
                                            delightful   speaking, not
from any fire, or poetry, or enthusiasm, but from a
charming voice, from sentences in uninterrupted flow
of the most perfect grammatical construction, and
from a fine intonation. They were the speeches
of a  pehrisguhalsyivec.ultivIatteisd    man, clear,  judicial   in tone,
and                                    said that on   the first  occasion
on which he spoke in the House, Lord Melbourne
listened for a few minutes, and then rushed out
of the House to bring back one of his colleagues,
I Iwho had left it to write letters in the robing-room,
calling out : ' say,                   say, come here, come here !
IWe've got the devil of a Bishop !'
                                                                 never
   Lord Melbourne himself was no speaker.
heard him say more than a few sentences, which he
always did say, however, withja very fine voice and

1839-41]   REMEMBRANCE OF FACES                                  151

in a very dignified manner. Essentially a man of
the world, very shrewd, well read and accomplished
                            seemed to be without enthusiasm
                            excellent head of a party which
Iin  many               he
     any                an
of
           kiwnady--s,
was dying of inertia. He is said, believe truly,
     hyaovuengplaSyoevdereaiggnre--ata     part in his loyal devotion to
to                                         devotion not dictated by any
his

mere party interests, but by a conscientious desire
that the Queen should know thoroughly the powers
and duties assigned to her in the ancient Constitution
of her country; and in whatever degree this teaching
may have guided a naturally strong and most truthful
character in the first starting of a splendid reign, Lord
Melbourne deserves the thanks of a grateful people.
    IPnarrlieacmalelinngtarymylifef,irsIt    introduction  into   the scenes
of                                         am more than          struck with
                                                           ever
Ithe evidence that proves how entirely memory depends
upon attention.             have naturally a singularly bad
Imemory for faces. All those of men or of women with

whom have had no more than the accidental meetings
or the conventional conversations of society are so
speedily obliterated from my recollection that it has
been a very frequent awkwardness, and even incon
I Ivenience, in my life. Yet there are some faces which

   then saw for the first time, and which never knew
in later life, which are, nevertheless, so vividly im
pressed on my memory that their every attitude
and expression recur to me with all the distinctness
of actual vision. They were not all men of great
distinction even then, and many of them are almost
wholly forgotten now. One of those was the then
Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Howley. He had a
pale face small and pinched, with all the appearance
of delicate health. But there was such a mixture of
Imeekness, gentleness, and humility in the expression,

that thought it a most attractive countenance, and
Iit still hangs in the picture-gallery of my mind as the

face of one of the most venerable men have ever seen.
     There was another face in the House of Lords at

152        ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE                       [chap, vii

that   time which    riveted all my        awthteonmtioIn.hadItnewvaesr
that  of the then   Lord Holland, of
heard at all, known only as owner and host in that
beautiful house in Kensington which had become the
headquarters of all that remained of the old Whig
party, and where he entertained most of the best
political and literary society in London during many
years of an enlightened and cheering hospitality.
But what attracted my attention was his extra
ordinary likeness to his uncle, Charles James Fox, as
depicted in all the portraits of the time. There was
the same regularly oval outline, the same dark, bushy
eyebrows, the same good-humoured and genial expres
sion, and the same portly form.
  IOf

need
      the  Duke of   Wellington            anIdcaLnonrdot  Aberdeen
      say  nothing                                         disentangle
                    here, because
my recollections of them in 1840 from those of my
later years. But there is one other face in the
House of Lords at that time which holds as distinct
a place in my memory as any other, and that is the
face, manner, and voice of the late Lord Fitzwilliam.
He enjoyed at that time the distinction of being
the only peer who advocated free trade in corn and
the abolition of the Corn Laws. He was continually
presenting petitions on the subject, and continually
making speeches upon them, so much so that he
went by the name of the ' Corncrake.' He was a
good-looking old man, with a fine voice and an
excellent manner, so much so that someone told
Lord Granville that when he heard Lord Fitzwilliam
                                           a little reminded of the
begin a  speech he  owf aMsr.alPwiatty--s  an impression, however,
manner   and voice

which was as speedily dispelled, for he was an incon
secutive speaker, and never produced any effect upon
the House. Still, it is to the honour of that Lord
Fitzwilliam, who was one of the largest land-owners in
England, that he should have so long preceded his
party in the policy which both parties were so soon
compelled by circumstances to adopt.

1839-41]           LORD STANLEY                                      153

IPassing to the House of Commons, which attended
Imuch more frequently, from the greater activity of

political life which was evident there, soon came to
Ithe conclusion that there was no oratory at all in the
sense in  which     understood    the word, except               in  the
speaking   of one                 Stanley. As one                of  the
                   man--Lord
leaders in the Opposition to the Melbourne Government,
he was indeed acting under the leadership of Sir Robert
Peel. But as a speaker, and in brilliancy of debate,
there was no comparison between the two men.
Peel's speeches were heavy artillery, no doubt, but
they were heavy in more           nsoensdeasshth--annoothnein.g  There was
no fire, no imagination,                                         but solid,
well-marshalled arguments, with only occasionally a
little humour, to which Disraeli gave the name of
' heavy pleasantry.' Stanley's oratory did not, indeed,
Iremind me at all of the stately declamation and the

magnificent invective which had read in the speeches
of Mr. Pitt. But the voice was beautiful, the sentences
perfect in construction, the delivery easy and graceful.
There was fire and fun and raillery, whilst occasionally
IStanley rose to passages of great dignity and power.

Such was a passage heard him deliver in reply to a
member of the Government who had referred to the
example of Sir Robert Walpole as that of a Minister
who had remained in office after it was evident that
he had lost the confidence of Parliament. Lord
Stanley ridiculed and denounced this appeal to the
bdeacdlineex.amp' lAensdetthbayt  a great man in the years of a
                                   power,' said Stanley, ' which     sad
                                                                      he
had held so long with honour, and which he might
have laid down with the applause of all men, he
was at last compelled to resign under circumstances
of great disparagement, because too late and too
reluctantly.'
The whole passage was so finely conceived and so
finely spoken that a              Whig peer   who was sitting next
me, Lord Monteagle,               exclaimed  involuntarily, ' That is
a beautiful sentence.' Stanley's previous contests with

154          ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE                         [chap, vn

O'Connell, which had been among the excitements of
IParliamentary debate in previous years, had not yet

entirely ceased, and on one occasion, in 1840, heard
a speech from the great Irish agitator. His enormous
bulk habited in a long Irish coat, his bullet-shaped
head, his brown wig, and his somewhat coarse but
powerful face, are all so indelibly imprinted on my

I Imemory that seem to see him as he rose, and as
walked out behind him amid a crowd of members, when
                                                             His voice was
one of the   divisions   had been   taken.                 oratory, but of
magnificent                element  in all
             -- a great
         vtaolugereaant ddeemffaegctogiunest.hatItkiwndas  of  oratory   which
special                                                        powerful   bass,
belongs                                                     a

but flexible and full of the richest tones. The only
thing he said which has dwelt on my memory was an
example of that love of personal allusion in which
mobs delight, and which, when practised by a master,

is not without its effect in cultivated assemblies. In
speaking of Peel's attacks upon the Government, he

hotTarernoeddarseytareaiddthp,atashtwrhetageymvom--inn!eg"tahfs' oheirastHlDhlgiusrifnerkosasepmttriroaoenrAfdmgpsWbIlareeysiyslliihftnhHgiebotturohorsneege.alu,dle"aleu'UasnAwdpdneo,odrrugdbou,nfta'eorttddwhhsl,eye,'
added to the effectiveness of a splendid organ, by
which every syllable and every letter of his words
was pronounced with a skilled deliberation and dis
tinctness, and with modulations of voice which were

most expressive.
I Engrossing as those scenes were to me at the moment,

  passed from them with delight to the very different
Icontests of the engineer with the violence of the ocean
which    Ihave related above ; and soon                    after our return
from                                                       of being intro
       Tiree had the great interest
duced for the first time to that parliament of science
which Murchison and Sedgwick and Lyell had suc
cessfully established in the annual meetings of the

British Association. In 1840 it met in Glasgow. We
were invited for the occasion to Hamilton Palace,

                      LORD HARROWBY            155

where a large and miscellaneous party was assembled
for it. My father was much interested in his return
to a house which had been much of a home to him in
his boyhood and youth, when the dukedom was held
by a stepbrother to whom he was much attached. On
that brother's death without heirs, the dukedom had
passed to a distant cousin, and the heir of that line
in 1840 was a man then well advanced in years, with
whom my father was never on intimate, although always
on friendly, terms. He had married a beautiful and
charming woman, daughter of the famous Mr. Beckford,
author of ' Vathek,' and had devoted himself mainly,
not to public life, but to the collection of beautiful
and costly furniture and pictures for his magnificent
palace at Hamilton. He was famous for his courteous
but somewhat affected mannerism, and for a very
peculiar habit of dressing in long coats with a very
high collar, and also of wearing small combs in his
hair, which were by no means well concealed. He
received my father with the most effusive kindness,
and the company assembled in his house was full of
interest to me, who had hitherto seen nothing of what
is called society.
    Among the guests, the most interesting man to me
was old Lord Harrowby, one of the leading members
of  the Cabinet, all of whom           the intended victims
of  Thistlewood's conspiracy.  werIet  was at his house in
Grosvenor Square that the Cabinet dinner was to
have been held, and it was to him, when riding in
Ithe Park, that the design had been betrayed.  found

afterwards that Lord Harrowby had the character
of being a very formidable person, with a sharp,
snappish manner.         No characteristics  cIoueldxpbeeriemncoerde
absolutely different      from those which
Iat Hamilton.              of seventeen, especially if
              as BIoywsas
they are shy,              then, are extremely sensitive
to manner,               certainly should   have given him a
wide berth    and     I   observed the
              had                          leaI sftouinnddicoaltdioLnorodf
such traits.             on the contrary,
                But,

156    ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE                            [chap, vn

Harrowby most gentle and courteous in his manners,

Iand most genial in his conversation, so much so that
Iwas greatly charmed by him. We never crossed each

other's paths again, although became intimate with
hisItcuwltausr,edhowanedvearm, iaambloengsonth, ethmenenLoorfdscSieanncdeont.hat my
permanent acquisitions of friendship were made at
IHamilton and at Glasgow. With Murchison, Sedg
wick,  and Lyell   almsoadewitfhrienPdrsohfeipsssorwhJi.ch   lasted till
their                                                       D. Forbes,
       deaths, as
who became celebrated for his investigation on
glacier motion, and Professor Edward Forbes, one
of the foremost naturalists and the most charming
lecturer of his time. But the man who is most associ
ated with the meeting in Glasgow as a personality
never to be forgotten was Louis Agassiz, the famous
Swiss savant, whose visit to this country in 1840 had
such an effect that it marks an epoch in the history
of British science. Full of the glaciers of his native
mountains, his eye was quick to catch the tool-marks
of their characteristic work, and those tool-marks he
saw in abundance when he went into the Highlands
and saw all the exposed rock surfaces, smoothed and
polished, but also scratched, and sometimes furrowed,
by some heavy agent passing over them. He had no
special knowledge of the action of oceanic ice floating
in glacial seas, and driven by winds and currents
against rising or falling coasts. He, very naturally,

thought only of ice in the form in which it was familiar
to him. He therefore saw the work of glaciers every
where, and had no time, and perhaps no opportunity,
of distinguishing the places and conditions which were
compatible with the existence of glaciers, from those
where no such bodies could have found a place. His
doctrine took   immediate hold  oIf   the geologists,       until
                has become (as       think) a mania.
in our time it                                                 It
       however, sufficiently
was,   advance in geological  sacipepnlcieca. bleIt  to constitute a
great                                                pieced on nicely
with the discovery made, long before, by my friend

1839-41]                LORD BROUGHAM                     157

ISmith of Jordanhill, of shells in the clays of the Clyde

which only live in Arctic seas. But am digressing
from my own experience in Glasgow, which was merely
that of an indelible personal impression. Agassiz was
      --of  those men   who carry the light of genius in  their
one         and not of  genius only, but of a noble and   most
face
attractive nature. His beautiful countenance is one
Iof the treasured memories of my life. But never
Isaw him again.         do not recollect how it was that we
did not see him at Inveraray. He did go there, and
when we returned we found an enthusiastic note from
him lying on a table in one of the principal morning-
rooms, on which he had noticed a number of scientific

Ibooks : ' Happy the people whose aristocracy is occupied

with such studies as find here.'
  IWith the opening of the session of 1841 my father

returned to London, and resumed my close attendance
on the debates of both Houses of Parliament. Peel's
campaign against Lord Melbourne's Government was
drawing near to its triumphant close. My impression
was fully confirmed that there was then no orator in
tChoemHmoounsse--oLforLdordSst,analenyd.  only one in the House of
                                            There was, indeed, his
brother seceder from the old Whig ranks, Sir James
Graham, whose speeches had a marked influence on
the House. He was a handsome man, but his voice
was not a fine one. His manner was dignified, but it
was also inanimate and without variety ; his excellence
lay rather in the general dexterity of his arguments,
and in pithy, somewhat epigrammatic sayings. There
was no fire in them, no imagination, but they were
weighty, and gave one the impression of a very able
and a very sensible man.

  It may seem strange to deny the existence of any
orator in the House of Lords when Lord Brougham
was still, not only alive, but, so far as physical health
was concerned, as well and strong as ever. But Lord
            hinimsaelllf.othIetr   respects was then the mere
Brougham                          was difficult to realize that he
shadow of

158     ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE                     [chap, vn

iwtfearshmesthhewaidstahmbeGeeenomrgaqenuewnCcahhnoendihn--agd.bcyoInltatcesknedeomefdedfio,rensoqinmuiettehhoeewq,suuaarsl
Irounding atmosphere. He was perpetually speaking,

or rather talking, for never heard one great speech
Ifrom him on any subject. And yet he retained all

the mechanism of oratory, to a degree have never
seen in any other man. He spoke sentences with the
most complicated parentheses, yet always returning
with perfect acuracy to the main structure of the
sentence, after having marked off the deviation by
some appropriate change of tone, or of gesture, or of
both. For, indeed, his gestures were marvellous. His
nose was flourished in harmony with his fingers, of
which he made use more after the example of the
gesticulating Italians than of our more staid and sober
race. His very thumbs were eloquent. The power of
glare which he threw into his small and cold grey eye
wI htheninkheitwqisuhieted  to express indignation    was wonderful.
                                                      been even then
                            possible that, if he had
sent back to the House of Commons and to the handling
Iof great questions of public policy, he might have

become again a formidable power. As it was, never
heard   from him a single speech of any force,         nor a
single  sentence that was worth remembering.
                                                      If ever
there was a man to whom Disraeli's epithet of an
' extinct volcano ' could be applied with literal truth,
it was to Lord Brougham.
My dislike of the Whig Government was not lessened
by the course the Ministry now took on that great
question of public policy which was then rising into
pressing importance. During the many years the Whigs
had been in office they had never shown any disposition
to support the agitation in favour of the repeal of the
Corn Laws ; and Lord Melbourne had declared in a
celebrated speech that the man who would advocate
the free import of foreign corn would be ' the maddest
man in England.' Freedom of trade had never been
one of the party doctrines of the Whigs. They, in

1839-41]  THE WHIGS IN 1841                                       159

alliance with the whole manufacturing and commercial
classes, had opposed every endeavour of Mr. Pitt to
relax the system of Protection, even as against Ireland.
Now, in the utter decadence of their power, and for
want of anything else to fill their sails, they suddenly
announced the new policy of making some important
concession to the Anti-Corn Law League. How far
any of them had even begun to experience that change
of opinion which a few years later overtook Sir Robert
Peel, it would be difficult to determine. Certain it
is that no symptoms of conversion, on the merits of
the question, had appeared in them, till, under the
stress and temptation of a crisis in their party interests,
their course was suddenly changed. And, indeed, on
the merits they were ignorant and divided. The only
Whig writer and politician who had enjoyed a great
reputation as a political economist, Ricardo, had
always held and taught that a cheap price of corn
would insure a low rate of wages. Low wages would
enable manufacturers to lower the cost of production,
and to increase their profits. This doctrine was firmly
believed in by all parties. Of course it afforded no
prospect of advantage to the working classes from the
repeal of the Corn Laws, whilst that measure was held
to threaten ruin to all the       cwlaasssesenteinreglaygednewin--atghrait
culture. Cobden's doctrine
wages did not depend on the price of food, but on the
demand for labour, which would be greatly stimulated
by free imports. The Whigs of 1841 had not grasped
this new doctrine. There is a story told of Lord
IMorelnbootu--rnealthaot utghhattime, which,   whether literally
                                   believe it  to be quite true   --truaet
least puts in a telling form the condition of the Whig
view upon the merits. After a long discussion in a
Cabinet at which it was decided to embark on a
reform of the Corn Laws, the members had broken up,
and were making their way in some excitement out
of Downing Street, when Lord Melbourne followed
them to the head of the stairs, and shouted out : 'Stop,

160                  ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE   [chap, vii

stop !     Tell me what        toitloisweargrweaegdesthoarttowreaissheatlhl esmay--:
whether    cheap corn is
it don't much matter which, but at least we should
all say the same thing.' The story goes that this
appeal of the        Prime      Minister  was received with shouts
of merriment.                  was an     address characteristic at
                        It
once of Lord Melbourne's devil-may-care manner and
of his penetrating common-sense sagacity. So trans
parent a political                        when it fails, does always
a great deal more    manoeuvre,
                     than fail.           It is very apt to produce,
or to intensify, a violent reaction. In some minds it
provokes indignation and disgust ; in others it excites
contempt. In the present case it did both. The con
stituencies were generally as ignorant and indifferent
on the merits of the Free Trade controversy as the
Whig leaders themselves had been, but they had
become thoroughly tired of the party, and were not
to be deceived by the mere playing of a trump-
card.
My father left London and posted home through the
Iwhole length of England, where everyone        Ewlaesctuionnd--er

the excitement of an approaching General
an excitement in which had come to share intensely.
And when, after reaching home in September, 1841,
daecmlaarejodr,ityI   for Sir  Robert Peel     of ninety-one was
                     rejoiced  in the result.    Besides the early

preconception which had led me to identify the Whigs
Iof 1832-1841 with the Whigs of 1784-1806, who had
been the envenomed enemies of Mr. Pitt,          Ihtadwasa

special horror of the last electioneering move.
not that'I had thought my way to any reasoned con
Iclusions on the issues raised by the Corn Law con
troversy.            had never read a line of formal political
economy ; but, partly no doubt by nature, and partly
Ias the effect of early training, not only in the physical

sciences, but in spiritual things, had a supreme regard
for the integrity    ofI  the mind in all forms of intellectual
conviction, and              was specially revolted by the
spectacle of men sacrificing any truth to electioneering

1839-41]  NEW CONVICTIONS                                           161

tactics. This feeling has remained with me through
life, intensified by more flagrant examples than any

I had then known.
  I had not at that time observed one mitigating fact
which a longer observation of the world has impressed
upon me. That fact is that a large number of our
opinions on almost all subjects are held on the insecure
tenure of nothing but authority and tradition. We
may hold them without doubt, but only because with
out examination. Then, when these are assailed by
arguments which are entirely new to us, and when
these arguments are really sound, they force an
entrance wherever extraneous conditions are favour
able to attention. Self-interests or party interests
are among the most powerful of these extraneous
conditions, but changed convictions may be a reality
none the less. The merit of reaching these new con
victions may be less when they are the result of such
conditions, but they may be genuine and sincere. This
is undoubtedly the explanation of the great change
which came over the manufacturing and commercial
classes on a Protective fiscal system. For generations
they had insisted upon it in their own interests. When

it came to be consistently applied to another industry
than their own, they gradually awoke to the evils it
entailed, and at last attacked it in that form with all
the passion of a new conviction. A Whig of that day
declared in a hustings speech that he could not with a
good conscience repeat the petition for our daily bread
in the Lord's Prayer, and at the same time support
the Corn Laws. That Whig had then attained the
age of    lisfoem. ewIthadtidunsedeemr  forty, and had long      been in
public                                  strange that, till the  interests
Iof his party intervened, he had never drawn this con
clusion from so familiar a petition.    thought it at
the time a specimen of all that was worst in political
Iclmoonyngdnuecaatn.redstBbauenttdtetdrheaatrkensWot whrnieglatabisveecasLm--oerdtheafMtEeoarrwrpleatrohdfs--Caoarnnleidsleo,f
vol. i.
                                                                11

162  ENTRY INTO POLITICAL LIFE  [chap, vn

Ilearnt from the sincerity of his character that had

been mistaken in my judgment of his speech. His
political position had no doubt not only awakened
his attention, but had given its own impetus to his
thoughts in following a certain path. But the fervour

of his new convictions was none the less absolutely
sincere.

                CHAPTER VIII

                          1841-42

                CHURCH OF SCOTLAND

The General Election of 1841 was a great excitement
for the moment, but it did not engross me long,
and it had comparatively little permanent effect upon
Ipmaytho,pimniyonps.ublWicitlhifethbeesgaamn e--ytehaer,ohcocawseiovner,wbhyenanotfhirestr
Itook an active personal part in the controversies of

my time, and when, in one of these, made my earliest
appearance as an author.

  In 1841 a new interest awoke which for the moment
absorbed all my attention, and was yet totally un
connected with any of the questions which then divided
IParliamentary parties. From both of these, in that
interest,    was at once divorced, with abundant
opportunities of seeing how ill-informed and how
prejudiced politicians may be when any question comes
upon them with broader and deeper issues than those
with which they have been accustomed to deal. This

experience had a lasting effect upon me. It saved me
from any too close partisanship in the mere game of
party. With politics, indeed, in the highest sense of
that word, the new      qinuseesptaiornabhlyadinnteortwoonvelyn.somIet
                                                                        con
nection, but it was                                                     con
cerned the whole functions and duties of States or
Governments in their relation with individual rights,
                with the constitution of     IthteinCvhorlvisetsiana
and especially  is an immense subject.
Church. This
great many questions of history, both general and
local,  and  questions  not  less  numerous  of law,                    both

                             163              11 --2

164                           CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                  [chap, vm

Ihuman and Divine.                        must stop  for a while   --in hmowy
                                     what this new   interest was
narrative to explain
it arose, and the effect it had upon me. Englishmen
almost universally, and only too many Scotsmen, are
as ignorant on the subject now as they were in 1841.
For about eight or nine years before 1841 an agita
tion had been going on in Scotland to procure some
modification of the system of lay patronage in the
appointment of parish ministers in the Established
             This had                                old subject   of   con
Church.  in  Scotland.               been a   very    the cause   of   more
tention                                        been
                                      It had
than one secession from the Established Church. The
subject had been from time to time continually
cropping up. Boswell records a conversation with
Dr. Johnson upon the subject in 1773, in which the
arguments, as they stood then, are very fairly, though
by no means completely, discussed. But new life had
been given                    it by   political influences in  the years
1830-1832.   tIot                    been often recognised      that the
                               has
movements of opinion which culminated in the passing
of the first Reform Bill were among the causes which,
in the English Church, started the Oxford Movement.
Churchmen in England had been always inclined to
sacerdotalism, and when rough and sometimes rude
hands were laid on bishoprics in the name of reform,
a reaction was begun in favour of what are called High
Church opinions, which ran a memorable course, and
the effects of which are by no means yet exhausted.
dInireScctoiotnlan--dththaet  same excitement took a wholly different
                              of reasserting the claims of Christian
congregations to have some effective voice in the choice
Iof their own minister. For a good                                         this
                                                                            no
movement was slow an I gradual.
                                                     mItanayttryaecatersd
attention in my quiet home at Ardencaple.                         do not
recollect ever hearing it mentioned there during the
years between 1830 and 1841. My native parish was
perhaps hardly the place where it was likely to seem
important. The more religious-minded members of
that congregation had seen one of the most saintly

1841-42]  THE VETO LAW                                                          165

ministers of the Church given to them by the exercise
of lay patronage ; and they had seen, too, that they
were deprived of him in the exercise of that very
spiritual jurisdiction of Church  courts  cwohnitcehstw. asItbewinags
so determinedly asserted in the   rising
not, therefore, likely that they would regard those
courts with any special reverence, or as constituting
any very perfect agency for remedying defects in the
system of lay patronage. Meantime the movement
went on in the annual Assemblies of the Church, until
in 1834 an Act was passed by the General Assembly
forbidding the inferior courts to induct any minister
into a parish if his appointment was objected to by a
majority of the male heads of families in full com
munion with the Church. This Act was called the
Veto Law, since it placed a power of veto in the hands
of the congregation against any very unacceptable
minister. Thereafter the question was raised in the
civil courts whether the Act was competent, or whether

it was ultra vires of the Assembly, without the consent
of Parliament. Here, obviously, a wholly new issue was
raised. The Act of the Assembly was simply an order
cohraargediroefcatiopnureilsysusepdirittouaslufbuonrcdtiinoant--e tchoautrotsf  in the dis
                                                                                ordination.
A denial of any right to issue such an order might
evoke a claim of the civil courts to issue a counter and
a mandatory order on the discharge of that unquestion
ably spiritual function. And this is what did actually
happen. The action of the civil courts in attempting to
coerce the ecclesiastical courts in the matter of ordina
tion produced at once a burst of indignation on the
part of the Church, and half Scotland was in a flame.
The flames would have been still more rapid and
violent had it not been for this, that there was
obviously a real difficulty in the circumstances of the
case. Both of the possible alternatives did violence
to some principle acknowledged by both parties. The
ordination of ministers to a cure of souls was un
doubtedly a purely spiritual function. So also was

166                      CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                  [chap, vin

the judgment on the necessary qualifications for
ministerial duty. On the other hand, the enjoyment
opfrivailegbee.neficIef  was quite as undoubtedly a secular
                         the two were inseparable, then either
the civil courts must coerce the Church in the function
of ordination, or else the Church could abolish the
statutory right of patronage in parochial benefices.
The old constitutional law of Scotland had solved the
difficulty with perfect logic by enacting that the
Church courts would forfeit the endowment if they
rejected qualified presentees. This violated no prin
ciple of spiritual independence, whilst it placed the
Church courts under heavy recognizances not to take
any course in the exercise of that independence which
was at variance with the civil law. But the civil
courts, assuming the inseparability of cure and bene
fice, were, on the one hand, asserting their own absolute
supremacy over both, and were ordering Church courts
in the matter of ordination. The Church courts and
Assemblies, on the other hand, were denying this
power absolutely, and were defying its injunctions.
Politicians who had no conception of the forces which
lay behind the controversy, or of the very existence
of any Christian Church except as erected and created
by statutes and enactments, were shouting themselves
hoarse over what they called the duty of ' obedience
to the law.' The air was thick with speeches and
pamphlets on the subject, and it was becoming evident
that some amendment of the civil law of patronage
was an absolute necessity, if the Established Church
of  IStcowtalasnndowt ausnttoil  escape the danger of being  broken up.
                                  matters had reached this   stage that
I began to give to the controversy any serious attention.
IThe few casual observations had heard about it in
its earlier stages were all adverse to the popular view.
My father, as Duke of Argyll, was one of the very
largest holders of patronage in Scotland. He did not
naturally sympathize at first with a movement which
would damage, if it did not abolish, this right in the

1841-42]    ' THE TWO VOICES '                          167

disposal of parochial livings, however little he might

Ivalue it personally. The current of feeling, therefore,

by which was surrounded was leading me, so long as
my mind was merely passive, in the direction which
was adverse to the course   and to the                  of the
Church Assemblies, and in  that current  Iclmaimighs t   easily
have drifted to wrong conclusions, as so many of my
Ifclass unfortunately did.

       there is any use at all in autobiographies, it is that
they should reveal those personal elements which
Icount for so much in the opinions and in the conduct

of men, and therefore must say a few words here in
explanation of some of these in my own case. Some,
perhaps many, of my contemporaries in my later
years have thought me very confident in my opinions,
and very aggressive in my expression of them. And
this impression may naturally arise from a few facts
which have been conspicuous. But there are other
facts needing to be placed alongside of these, which
strangers could never see, and which, perhaps, they
could not easily believe. Out of the innumerable
difficult and complex questions which every active
mind must come across in life, a very few only can be
thoroughly explored. As regards these few it is
possible to reach the most assured convictions, and

it may be not only justifiable, but a positive duty, to
express such convictions with all the certainty which
is felt; whilst on all other questions less thoroughly
studied, and even on these, whilst yet the study of
them is incomplete, it may be quite consistent to
maintain  an habitual  Iathtiatvuedeneovferrehseardve.anyThniastuhraasl
been my   own case.
Itendency to a dogmatic temperament. On the con

trary, have always had an ingrained liability to
doubt, and  a disposition to  accept all received
with great  reserve. From      my earliest years   opI inhioanvse
been always listening to what Tennyson calls ' The
Two Voices,' and very often to many more than two.
A receptivity only too sensitive has been often to me a

168            CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                                                              [chap, vn

real embarrassment. And so it was that a casual reply
made to me on one occasion, by a very ordinary man,
on the questions then pending in the Church of
IScotland, was the starting-point of new convictions on
tdwhoietnhesutohbnijsecpvtr.iienwcipIldede--itderIbmydineientedsrtmitnoicntesdtwudhtyaot  itI  for myself, and
                                                                                               have ever since
                                                                                          procure and read
Iall the original documents which were authoritative
on the question.   at once bought a copy of the
Scottish Acts of Parliament, and read carefully every
Ione bearing on the subject, from the Reformation in
1560 to the Union in 1701.  procured copies of the
two Confessions of Faith which were embodied in the
Istatute law.  got copies of the Books of Discipline
Iadopted by the Church after the Reformation, and
Iread every line in all these authorities which bore upon
the subject. What  found soon interested me
Iintensely. Butitprewcaosncaebpstoioluntse, lyanidncIomsopoantibslaew                          with
                                                                                               that
my uninstructed
those whose lead had been inclined to follow were
      ignorant and illogical in a high degree.
both  was most creditable to my father's public                                                spirit,

  It
as well as to his perceptive powers, on a subject with
which he had not been familiar, that in the very first
year after his succession to the dukedom in 1840 he
became more and more favourably disposed to the
action of the Church. He had taken a house in
Edinburgh for the winter months of 1839-40, and had
there come in contact with the intellectual focus of
the agitation, as well as with many friends, who were
all earnest supporters of the policy of the General
Assembly. He put himself in communication with
some of those men who were its agents, and with much
public spirit he made up his mind that, if others failed
to do so, he would himself introduce a Bill into the
House of Lords which might bring the law of patronage
into harmony with the constitutional rights of the

Church and of the people. In the meantime, however,
this duty was taken in hand by the Earl of Aberdeen.

1841-12]  THE REFORMATION IN SCOTLAND           169

My father's long retirement from public life had
separated him from public men. Lord Aberdeen, on
the contrary, was then a leading power in the Con
servative party. Most unfortunately, his Bill fell
entirely short of the minimum required to satisfy
even the most moderate claims of the Church, and
the undoubted principles of her established con
stitution. The General Assembly of 1841 accordingly
rejected his Bill, as offering no satisfactory compromise.
My father then felt it to be his duty to take up the
task. He worked hard to frame a Bill which would
Isettle the controversy on a reasonable basis.
                                                threw
myself with the deepest interest into all the com
munications which went on with this great object in

Iview, and made myself as much master as could of all
the law and of all the history of the case. This was an
Ieducation in itself, and to explain my first appearance

in public must give some account, however short, of
the very singular facts, and the not less singular
principles, which appeared to me to be established, by
undisputable evidence, as fundamental in the consti
tutional history of Scotland.

  It is, of course, a familiar fact that the Reforma
tion took place in Scotland under conditions wholly
different from those under which it took place in Eng
land. Sovereigns of great, if not of supreme, power,
together with Parliaments which were acquiescent, if
not obsequious, effected the whole changes which were

made in England. In Scotland the corresponding
changes were brought about entirely by the people
--by the people, however, in the fullest sense of that
much-abused word. The Sovereigns were hostile.
The Parliaments were irresolute. Scotland had the
worst possible Parliamentary constitution. Its forms
placed all initiative exclusively in the hands of the
Crown. When, therefore, the great body of the
people had embraced with passion the new opinions,
they found no recognised organ in the State through
which they could speak their mind. They had to

170             CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                                       f CHAP. VIII

make one. This necessity threw them back on
first principles, and on first facts, as these appear
in the simple but telling narratives of the New
Testament. They were thus led to a great idea.
That idea was nothing less than a fresh and powerful
conception of the origin, of the nature, and of the
functions, of the Christian Church. As regards its
origin, they conceived it to be historically an organic
and visible society founded by Christ Himself. As
regards its nature, they conceived it as consisting of
the whole body of the believing people, and not of
merely any priesthood or any ministry. As regards
its functions, they conceived them to be independent
of all secular authorities in the whole sphere of religious
teaching and of spiritual government. And this great
complex idea they did not merely entertain as a
speculative opinion, but held it to be an indisputable
fact in history, and in principle to be self-evidently
true. They immediately, as if instinctively, embodied
it in determined conduct, and in founding systematic
organs of continuous activity.
They started an Assembly, called the General
Aa ssPeamrlibalmy,enwth. ich,Itwnitohtinointslyowconntsapihneerde,        virtually
                                                                    was  members,

                                                                    lay
including many of      the most   ptohwanerfcullerincoabl.les,Itbnuet veart
                        more lay
first it was actually
ceased to contain a large lay element, and so com
pletely did it aim at national representation, that all
the royal burghs in the kingdom had, and still have,
tIhtewarisghtthisofgrseeantdibnogdymewmhbicehrs   to its annual
                                                 kept alive the           session.

                                                                         spirit of
constitutional liberty, when in Parliament it was
feeble, fitful, or extinct. After desperate struggles, it
                statutory recognition            of   its   own conception
secured    --a  of its foundation, and            of   its   authority, and
of itself
of its powers. This recognition was embodied in
solemn and successive Acts of Parliament of the

highest constitutional authority. Through political
convulsions of every kind and degree, advantage was

1841-42]     THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY                                         171

taken of every favourable opportunity for securing
this result. The leading men in the first Assemblies
were, to a large extent, also the leading men in Parlia
ment, and when the Reformers were compelled to have
recourse to arms, so wholly did the leaders represent a
religious contest that the name by which they were
known was, ' The Lords of the Congregation.' When
they possessed themselves of supreme power in the
State, they did not indeed do all that the mass of the
Reformers desired to be done, but they adopted all
their fundamental principles and they embodied the
new Confession of Faith in an Act of Parliament,
wInhitchhis  declared it
                          to be   the  Confession of             the nation.
              Confession   there  was  not one word              said about

Presbyterianism or Episcopacy, just as there was
nothing about this distinction in the Articles of the
Church of England.
The Reformers in Scotland were too busy with more
important matters, respecting the nature of the Chris
tian Church, to think much of any question respect
ing the mere gradation of its ministers. They were
engrossed by a conception of the Church which
identified it as closely as possible with the nation. Its
Assembly was different from its Parliament only
because the two bodies dealt with subjects in their

own nature different, and because the composition of
the Assembly was more freely chosen, more compre
hensive of all classes, and therefore more completely
representative. The General Assemblies of the Church
of Scotland, unlike the Councils and Convocations of
all other Churches, were proud and tenacious of a con
stitution which was not merely representative of the
clergy, but embraced all ranks and classes of the
Christian people. They were fully conscious that in
this broad popular constitution lay the real sanction
of their     Iatuwthaosriatyc,onasntditutthieonownehicghr,eaift   secret  of their
                                                                          adopted
power.                                                           it were
all over Christendom, would confer a power and reality
which it does not now possess, on the ambitious title

172           CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                                                [chap, viii

of ' The Catholic Church.' In addressing the civil
Government in 1574, the General Assembly reminded
the Regent, as a fact, that it was an Assembly ' of the
...whole general Church of this realm, as well of all
members thereof  in such measure that the most
noble thereof, the highest estate, have joined in their
own persons the Assembly as members of one body,
concurring, voting, authorizing all things there along
with the brethren.' And to this idea of the nature

and constitution of the Christian Church they gave
effect, not only in every Church court, but in the
fundamental units on which all organized societies

must rest. In every parish the minister was to be

associated with elected representatives of the con

gregation, which, as a body called the Kirk Session,
was to have an important part in his own appoint
ment. Thus, from top to bottom of the edifice, the
whole building was a system of constitutional govern
ment, founded on the rights and privileges of the whole
oCwhrnistsipaenciapleodpulteie, sawnderetoasesvigenryed.classIt  of that  people its
                                                                  cannot  be denied
that this was a grand conception of the nature and
constitution of the Christian Church. Nor can it be
denied that this conception had been practically lost
to Christendom. And yet the Scottish Reformers
neither had, nor claimed to have, any merit of origin
ality in devising it. They never put it forward, or
even thought of it, as their own invention or their
own discovery. On the contrary, they emphatically
declared that they simply saw and found it in the
narratives of the New Testament. But there were
three things
in which the  concerning this conception                         aolof nteh--e  Church
               Scottish Reformers stood                                         first, in
the thoroughness and absolute conviction with which
they entertained it ; secondly, in the immediate and
automatic action which they took upon it, in embody
ing it in an appropriate machinery of constitutional
courts ; and, thirdly, in the successful demand they
made upon the State to recognise both the rightful

1841-42]              LAY PATRONAGE IN 1712          173

eItxiswteanscethoifs  these courts and their  independent powers.
                        success that placed    the Parliaments of
Scotland in a position as unique as that occupied by
herIfCthhuercAhs.semblies of the Church stood alone in the
claims they made, the Parliaments of the nation
stood not less alone in the response they gave. No
other Parliament in the Christian world embodied in
its legislation any similar acknowledgments, or gave
effect    to them     in any similar   porfov12is1ioynesarosf--sftraotmutothrye
law.      Through     the long period
Reformation legally accomplished in 1567 to the Revo
lution in 1688--the completion of this constitutional
system was a subject of continual contest. Every
attempt to resist or to undermine it, or to repeal it,
was triumphantly resisted, and the defeat of every
such attempt was always signalized by some new con
firming law. Not once or twice only, but four times,
under varying circumstances and conditions, con
firmatory Acts and treaties were passed, adopting
bodily the Articles of Faith drawn up by the Church
Assemblies, declaring those bodies to be the only
legitimate authorities on all spiritual matters, defining
what these matters included, and finally providing,
at the Union with England, against any future inter
ference on the part of the new United Parliament with

the older Scottish legislation on this subject. In
violation of this stipulation in the Treaty of Union,
an Act of the United Parliament was passed during
the reign of Queen Anne, in 1712, restoring the
of lay patrons in the appointment of ministers.      Iptowwaesr
one of the measures taken, by a Government notoriously
inchoate   and reactionary, against                  assailable out
work of   the Protestant succession.          anIyt  was protested

against by the Established Church, and was an un
deniable breach of the Treaty of Union. Yet it was
on this unconstitutional Act, and on it alone, that all
the adverse decisions of the law courts had been based.
The result of all this singular history appeared to

174  CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                          [chap, vto

me to leave no doubt whatever of the urgent duty of
Parliament to modify the statute of Queen Anne, so
as to bring it into harmony with the action of the
General Assembly in giving a veto to congregations
aonblethme eanp. poIitnthmaedntcomase            over them of unaccept
                                       pastors   as the only alternative,
                                        to this
if a great disruption of the Established Church was to
be averted. All arguments on the mere legal aspects
of the case had been exhausted in 1840 by two suc
cessive decisions of the supreme judicial courts in the

previous year, 1839. In a conflict of jurisdiction
between the civil and ecclesiastical courts the civil
courts had, very naturally, decided in their own favour.
This is the only kind of question on which law courts
can never be absolutely trusted. They are always
under an invincible bias to maintain their own power.
The only wonder was that so many of the best and
most distinguished judges overcame this bias, not that
there was a considerable majority who were manifestly
swayed. When such pre-eminent men as Lord Jeffrey,
Lord Cockburn, Lord Moncreiff, and the venerable
Lord Glenlee, all affirmed the power of the General
Assembly to pass the Veto Law, and denied the right
of the civil courts to interdict their proceedings under
it, independent minds might well be satisfied. When
the question had been referred on appeal to the House
of Lords, one other influence, even more fatal than
professional and official self - assertion, was added
Ito the courses operating in that supreme tribunal.
That influence was Anglicanism.                  have never yet
met an Englishman who could understand, or even con
ceive, that idea of the relations between Church and
State which was embedded and embodied in the Con
stitution of Scotland. John Bull, with all his great
qualities, is a very parochial creature. What he has
never seen in his own experience, within his own part
of the kingdom south of the Tweed, he cannot see else

where, even when it may stare him in the face. In this
case it was all the more difficult for him, because there

1841-42]  ERRONEOUS ENGLISH IDEAS               175

were identities of phraseology concealing fundamental
differences of meaning.      Aalthpoasusgahgein--hnios towmnucohccaussieodn--al
Church services there    is
recognising in the abstract that the Church means ' the
whole body of the believing people scattered through
out the world,' he seldom hears that passage read, and,
when he does hear it, never dreams of giving to the
abstract definition any concrete interpretation. He
never thinks of the Church except as an institution
established by civil law, represented by strictly legal
courts, and having the political Sovereign as over all
persons and in all causes supreme. Practically, he
never thinks of the Church except as represented by
its ministry or its priesthood. When he hears of a
General Assembly of the Church, he can never get out
of his head a mere Convocation of the clergy. Still

less is it conceivable to him that such an Assembly
should have been, as it often was in Scotland, a far
more complete national representation than the Par
liament, and should have been acknowledged by that
Parliament as possessing by natural and Divine right
an independent jurisdiction in all spiritual matters.

All those ideas were incompatible with inborn Anglican
preconceptions, and where Englishmen found a single
statute, even although passed since the Union, which
could be quoted and used as overriding a whole series
of older constitutional    laws so  strange to  thItems,eetmheedy
made that statute a      supreme    authority.
impossible, therefore, to move the mass of prejudice
and ignorance which was determining their opinions
I Iand their conduct.
                             saw not less clearly another
   All this saw, and
influence which was reinforcing the stolid resistance
of Anglican ideas, and that was the influence of

IAnglicized Scotsmen. In all other matters have
always been of opinion that the union of the two
Parliaments of England and of Scotland was an
unspeakable gain to both countries, but especially
to Scotland. But in this one matter of the Church,

176              CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                            [chap, vin

the effect of English academical education and of
the faults and defects of the Presbyterian form of
worship had so alienated a large portion of the Scottish
aristocracy that they were as ignorant and as unsym
pathetic as the born John Bulls, in all matters respect
ing the constitution of the Established Church.
  IDuring the session of 1840, when on the steps of

the throne, used to hear the Earl of Aberdeen fre
quently urging   tChheurWchhigAsGseomvebrlniemse--ntwhtiochenmfoeracent,thteo
law against the
compel them to exercise purely spiritual functions at
the order of the civil courts. And this eminent
Scotsman never seemed to be even conscious that

there could   be a question  tahbiso,utnotrhedipdowI eerveorr  the right
of the civil  courts to do                                     hear him
even allude to the series of constitutional laws which

had expressly denied any such assumption as illegiti
mate, and a violation of the essential rights of the
Christian Church. When such ignorance or contempt
of notorious facts and of written documents of authority
were displayed by Scotsmen of great reputation, it
was hopeless to expect Englishmen to accept ideas
absolutely new to them. Then, again, mere political
Toryism added its share of power over the minds of
many, and     the   affinity of the  riEgnhgt laonf dp--atarollnategnedeidn
Scotland to    the   same rights in

to swell the resisting forces against concession to the
             Assemblies.
ChIutrcihs,  however, remarkable  that when the Duke           of

Wellington had read a very able statement of the case
for the Church, his masculine understanding grasped
at once the right solution. He said that the proper
thing to do would be, so to alter the civil law of patro
       as to  harmonize it   iwnditehpethnedernigchetsunoifmtphaeireCdh.urchIf,
nage  leave   her spiritual
and
this wise counsel had been followed, there would have
been no secession. But, most unfortunately, Lord
Aberdeen obstinately refused to make his Bill answer
to this description. My father then made the attempt,

1841-42]    MY FATHER'S BILL                         177

and drew up a Bill which he introduced early in May,
1842, accompanying it with a short but clear and
temperate statement of the case. His Bill gave the
right of objection to a presentee to the whole male
communicants of the parish, in this being a more
popular measure than the Veto Law of the Church
Assembly. On the other hand, however, it kept in
the hands of the Presbytery of the province the power
of overruling the objections of the people, if these
seemed to arise from factious or improper motives.
My father now waited, as Lord Aberdeen had done in
his own case, to see how his proposal would be received
by the Church. He had a triumphant success. A
motion in the General Assembly of 1842 to accept my
father's Bill as a settlement of the question was
carried by the overwhelming majority of 185. With
a folly which can never be sufficiently deplored, a
Government, calling itself Conservative, refused to take
            foacftahrterhyre'sitgBreaialgltainotosptpposarustcsuh.nitoyIpt,poawsniatdsiondi.emcplinoItsesdiwbalteos
advantage
allow my
for him to
in support of my father's course, and whilst his Bill
Iwas being prepared, that felt impelled to take the
I IIfield myself.
            was aware that had some advan
          had not been exposed to the prejudices due
tages.
to an English education. My father was known to be
a Conservative in politics. He was, moreover, one
of the very largest holders of Church patronage in
Scotland. All these circumstances were among the
elements in the case, and in my own position, which
encouraged me to write.
My first pamphlet avoided all argument on the mere
interpretation of Queen Anne's Act of Patronage, as an
argument which had    beeItn  determined by the law  courts
in their own favour.          avoided, on the other  hand,

all merely theological phrases, which had not been
directly adopted in Parliamentary enactments. But
it gave at some length   the  constitutional    history  of
the Established Church,  and                  the duty   of
                              it insisted on
vol. i.
                                              12

178        CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                    [CHAP. Till

Parliament to step in by just legislation, and to
harmonize the statute of patronage with other laws
of far more fundamental importance. Its title made
this discrimination plain, and emphasized the com
paratively secular  and strictly constitutional character
of the argument.      That title was, ' Letters to the
Peers from a Peer's Son, on the Duty and Necessity
of an Immediate Legislative Interposition on Behalf
of the Church of Scotland, as  deItterwmainsedwrbityteCnonwshideenraI
tions of Constitutional Law.'
Iwas eighteen, and published in January, 1842, or

about three months before had reached my nineteenth
birthday.
As a literary effort, and as a good argumentative
statement  osfucacesstrso. ngItcasspee, emdyily  letter commanded    an
immediate                                          passed through  two
editions, and it elicited from many friends, and from
not a few opponents, the warmest congratulations.
The responsibility of refusing the compromise offered
by my father's Bill certainly lay with Sir Robert Peel's

IGovernment, and in that Government mainly, as
Ihave always believed, with Lord Aberdeen. The love

and reverence with which in later years came to
Iregard Lord Aberdeen cannot prevent me from

deploring now, as deplored at the time, the course
taken by that distinguished man in 1840-1842. There
is not the slightest reason to doubt that, if the Cabinet
had assented to the Bill, it would have been easily
passed through both Houses of Parliament, but Lord
Aberdeen, as the most distinguished Scotsman in the
Administration, was blindly followed, with fatal conse

queItncwesa.s universally said at the time, and it has been

since admitted by his son, that Lord Aberdeen was
himself much led by the opinion and advice of the
then Dean of Faculty, afterwards Lord Justice Clerk,
John Hope. He was an able, but by nature a head
strong and overbearing, man, who was full to the
brim of passionate prejudice against the rights claimed

1841-42]        LORD ABERDEEN                         179

by the Church Assemblies. He had himself been a
member of the General Assembly, and was one of the
most prominent leaders of the minority. He was the
author of the most extreme pamphlet published during
tIhte   whole controversy on that side                of the question.
       was specially addressed to the                   ignorance and
prejudices of the English Tories, and in particular to
rousing the  alaIrtmscoonfcetahleedowennetrisreloyf,  Church patronage
                                                        or slurred over,
in England.
the statutory declaration of spiritual
as a Divine right of the Christian Church.            inIdtepideenndteifniecde
all such claims with those of priestly domination,
although the element of sacerdotalism was absolutely
wanting in a    Church  lGawoithvyiecrhinnmreeesvnteterdytoecnleatniimrfeorlycite omtnhaetdhele.awfu--Iltl
participation   of the
finally called  on the
that is, to compel the Church courts to exercise the
power of ordination at the bidding of lawyers like
himself. No worse advice than his could have been
                                   been Lord
followed. Whoever may have         decisive.          IAt bperredveaeilne'ds
chief adviser, his opposition was
even over the apparent disposition of the Duke of
Wellington to act effectively on the principle of con
cession. My father asked for his support in a personal
interview and by letter. Here is the Duke's reply :

   ' My dear Lord Duke,

           'I told your Grace in conversation what the view was

Iwhich had taken in the discussion on the Scottish Church : that

I was a consenting party to the measure proposed by the Earl of
Aberdeen; for which I would have voted, if it had ever come to

'Ifa vote in the House of Lords.

       your Grace should propose any other measure, I will consider
it with the attention due to anything from your Grace. But I

approve of the course which Lord Aberdeen has taken, even to

this day. And I beg leave to decline, out of doors, and in writing,

or even orally, to discuss any other measure : and the opinions

Iwhich entertain on these questions. They have given me the

greatest pain. About a quarter of a century has now elapsed since

180         CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                                        [chap, vni

the Prince Regent, afterwards George the Fourth, called me from

the command of the army abroad to take my seat at his Council.
IScotland was then, as termed by my poor friend the Earl of
Liverpool, the best-conditioned country in the world.                                 have

frequently quoted these words in concurring with the truth of the
observation. She is now on the eve of the greatest misfortune that

can happen to a civilized country : unless a merciful Providence

endows the leading men of all classes and professions, with modera

tion and sense, to induce and to enable them to avoid it. We are

on the eve of a civil religious war, in the operations of which all

I Ithe violent passions of the most violent men will be brought into

play ! Entertaining this opinion, as do sincerely, recommend

to all that have any influence and any knowledge upon the subject
Ito give it their best attention. I will attend to any measure that
imnatryodbuectipornopoosfedanyfoorned.i--scuIsshioanv,e  but cannot be a party    to  the
                                                         the honour to be,' etc.

This curious and interesting letter is thoroughly
characteristic of the old Duke. The sense of military

subordination to the Government of the day in all
civil or political questions was habitual with him, and
was intensified at this time by his long connection with
the Conservative party, which had so recently climbed
to power. Sir Robert Peel, in the peroration of the
great speech to the House of Commons which he
delivered on the occasion of his first addressing it as
Prime Minister, had placed in the front rank of his
                   and   confidence                      the support  of ' that
grounds of  hope    the   Duke of                        Wellington.
wonderful   man '                                                      It was
therefore, perhaps, hardly to be expected that on a
question with which the Duke was not really familiar
he should feel able to act on his own first impressions,
which were in favour of  Bexilal.ctlyItswucilhl          a course as              that
embodied in my father's                                  be observed              that
in the Duke's letter not one word is said against that
Bill upon its merits. He had simply put himself in
the hands of the Ministry of the day, and specially
in the hands of Lord Aberdeen. In doing so, as so
often happens, he was really putting himself in the

1841-42]                  LESSONS IN PAINTING                                 181

hands of a violent and a very inferior man, who had
acquired over Lord        AbIterdiseecnleaarn
unintelligible to me.                           influence                  which is
                                               from the                   short but
excellent memoir of his distinguished father by Lord
SLtoarndmAorbeerde(ethne    Honourable     Arthur               Gordon) that
                          himself was   personally              disposed to go
a good way farther than his own Bill to meet the views
of the Church, in which case he must have consented
to some such Bill as my father's. But the vehement
opposition of the Dean of Faculty, Hope, seems to have
Ioverborne     hthisatowI nhawveiselirveindcltionasteieonasn.d
      rejoice                                                   to  take  an  active
part in the total repeal of that law of patronage which
was the only statute which interfered with the old
fundamental laws of Scotland in respect to the claim
of its Church to a genuine and effective spiritual
independence. But this will come in my way to deal
with in that later time of my life to which it properly
Ibelongs.

      must now, however, return upon my steps a little
to notice some incidents in my life in 1841 and 1842,
which had more or less influence upon it in the coming
Iyears. During my father's residence in Edinburgh in

the winter of 1839-40 took some first lessons in oil-
painting from an artist of the name of Montague
Stanley. These lessons went no further than to
enable me to understand the management of the brush
and the handling of the material,       and the making of the
medium then called ' macgilp.'          At many intervals of
my later life the oil-painting of landscapes has been a
great enjoyment and relief to me as an interruption in
Imore serious work. One circumstance about it has
often struck me very much.              have entirely dropped
it during long intervals of time, and resumed it again.
IAnd on these occasions have always found myself
I Imore advanced than when left off.                                attribute this
entirely to the educating effect upon the eye of just
so much knowledge of the art as kept me in a continual
habit of observation as to the colouring of Nature, and

182             CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                  [chap, viu

of speculation as to    ihfoIwhaidt  could be       approached. I
have always felt that,               had time
                                                    and opportunity
Ito devote myself to it, should have attained a not
Iinconsiderable proficiency. On the other hand, had
no turn for portraiture, or even for the drawing of
figures, and the absence of these from my landscapes
Ihas always been one among many other deficiencies.

  In November, 1841, took it into my head to enter
the University of Edinburgh as a student, for the
purpose of attending certain classes, particularly that
of  Natural Philosophy, the Chair then held by Professor
    D. Forbes. Accordingly, rooms were taken for me
J.
Iand my tutor, Howson, in Charlotte Square, and
I Iduly matriculated at the college. My plans, however,
came to grief.  was at that time, as have been
all my life, delicate in health, and especially liable
to severe colds. The climate of Edinburgh did not
Iagree with me, and after attending Forbes' lectures

for a few weeks was laid up with an attack which was
accompanied with distressing earache. Only one other
incident of that time in Edinburgh has retained a place
iWn ilmliaymmeFmaboreyr,--aanfdtertwhaartdswasthea  visit to Howson by
                                                    well-known Father
Faber, one of the earliest seceders to the Roman

Church, and the author of many well-known additions
to our collections of sacred poetry.                mHaens--trvuecrky  me at
once as an interesting and attractive                                  good-
looking, with eyes of a fine blue, set in deeply hollowed
s--ocikmeatsg,inaantivaequ--iliunnesentotsleed, .and a general expression wild
    The year 1842 was memorable to me from the
excitement about the Church Question, my own
pamphlet, and the failure of my father's Bill. But
interests more personal were identified with its summer
Iand its autumn months.              have already referred to
Ithe principal service for which was indebted to my
Ifirst English tutor, Howson, who opened to me a wider

field of literature than that in which had roamed
when a boy. Among the authors to whom he intro

1841-42]             Arnold's ' history of rome '                       183

duced me was Dr. Thomas Arnold of Rugby. The
Ithanks                                     Howson     if it was for this
                                            ' History   of Rome ' that
alone.
          of  my life  are due to                                       the
               was to   Arnold's                                         be
          It
my reading was first directed.              fgeellniauts.oncIet  under
spell of Arnold's most attractive                                would
difficult to define it, but it must always be difficult to
define the influence of a very noble and a very powerful
                     upon other minds.        We can only feel it as
paefrascotn.alitIyt  is rare indeed that    in the sphere of history
such an influence can be exerted. But Arnold's love
oafndtruIthwasshinstersonagslyalmdroaswtna           in all his writings,
                                            passion  accordingly. The
                                            to them
Icharacter of his Christianity was a real help to me, not

being untroubled, as have already explained, by the
intellectual difficulties which beset all spiritual beliefs.
IThe type of that      Christianity seemed to          Imtewdaisffelritetnlet
                       had met with before.
from anything
concerned with abstract doctrinal conceptions, which,
however important in their own place, were too much
the continual        subject of controversy            Iatmcoonngsisttehde
Churches, and        especially in Scotland.
mainly in an absolute faith in, and an unbounded
devotion to, a Divine Person. Christianity claims to
be an historical religion. That is to say, it claims to
have been revealed in facts of the world's history truth
fully recorded and truthfully interpreted. Here was
a man of great intellectual power, with whom history
was, not merely a chief interest, but a passion ; who
spared no pains to get at the truth of it in all things ;
who loved to follow the great German Niebuhr in cross-
examining and sifting the legends of early Rome, and
in divining          the nucleus of facts from which             these
                       been developed -- here was this            man
legends had
accepting the narratives of the New Testament with all
Ithe fulness of a man's convictions and all the sim

plicity of a child's belief. Of course could not know
in 1840-1842, before his memorable Life, by Arthur
Stanley, had appeared, how wonderfully this character
istic came out in all his letters and in his private

184  CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                                            [CHAP. VI u

journals. But it had been impressed upon me indelibly
by such of his writings as were accessible to me. He
was in no sense a party leader. He was not what
would ordinarily be called a great preacher. He had
none of those gifts of oratory which captivate the
multitude. Neither had he a specially gracious person
ality, having in society much shyness and reserve.
He had strong opinions, and he was one of the most
resolute opponents of what was then called thejTrac-
tarian Movement at Oxford. But it was not this that
constituted his attraction. That which he said he
valued above all other qualities in youth was ' moral
earnestness,' and it was precisely that which dis
tinIgtuwishasedthehrimefsoerelf  in the highest degree.
                                 with great interest that,     in  the  spring
of 1842, 1 heard that Arnold had written to my tutor,
Ioffering to him a vacant mastership in the great school

of Rugby. In June took Howson with me to pay a
visit at a country-house near Campsie, and at the
railway-station a letter was put into his hands, announc
idnagy.thaTthAernsoholdckhiatdgdavieeduvsebroythsuIddheanvley   on the previous
                                                               never forgotten,
and Howson thus lost his contemplated appointment
in the public school of Rugby.
In September, 1842, the Queen, with the Prince
Consort, paid her first visit to Scotland. My father
Ithought it his duty to go to Edinburgh to attend Her

Majesty's Court held at Dalkeith. was appointed to
command the Celtic Society, which mustered in
Highland dress for the same purpose. Beyond the
Ibeauty of the scene in Princes Street, Edinburgh, down

which we had to march, retain no very distinct
recollection of any of the ceremonies. They seem to
melt into, and, as it were, to be absorbed by, many later
attendances on the Queen, both in Scotland and in
London. But a very different scene followed, of which
I recollect the minutest details. The Queen was to
Ivisit Taymouth, and before leaving Inveraray for

Edinburgh had received a very kind invitation from

1841-42]        TAYMOUTH CASTLE                                            185

Lord Breadalbane to be one of bis guests on the
Ioccasion. Accordingly, took an outside seat on a
Icoach which ran to Perth.                  was glad to see a part of
IScotland

recollect
          eonntliyrelytwnoewpotointms e--,  of which,  however, now
                                            the Lake    and Castle of
ILochleven, on which looked with intense interest as
one of the prisons of the unfortunate Mary, Queen of
Scots; and, next, the first view of Perth and of the
IValley of the Tay from the top of the Moncreiffe Hill.

  thought it a view of surpassing beauty, and it is one
which in the present day no stranger sees. Railways
do not ascend, as roads often did, to the tops of hills,
and many of the most striking landscapes of the world
are now lost to the traveller. That view of Perth, and
of the richly-wooded plain in which it stands, with the
winding Tay, is said to have so struck the Roman
legions that they exclaimed in ecstasy, ' Ecce Tiber !'
The Tay is in many ways a far more beautiful river
than the Tiber. But, on the other hand, the colouring
of Italy and its sky are unapproachable. But as at
that time these were unknown to me, the landscape was

Iof a kind absolutely different from anything had
ever seen, and remains indelibly impressed upon my

Imemory.        took a private carriage to drive to
   From Perth
Taymouth, and finding that Mr. Charles Baillie, one of
ILady Breadalbane's brothers, was going the same way,
  offered him a seat in my carriage, and we had a most
agreeable drive to our destination.
   There was a large and brilliant company assembled
at Taymouth to meet the Queen, amongst whom was
the Duchess of Sutherland and her eldest daughter,
Lady Elizabeth  Lkeivnedsnoens-sG, oawnedr.I    The Duchess treated
me with marked                                speedily fell under the

influence of the irresistible attraction she exercised
over so many, and which made her one of the most
charming women of her time. My friendship with the
Sutherland   ftahmanilytwdoatyeedarsfrolamter,thwishepnerIioadt,taainnedd
rather more                                                                led,
                                                                           my

186  CHURCH OF SCOTLAND                        [chap. VIII

Imajority, to my marriage with Lady Elizabeth, whom

  met there for the first time. Lord Aberdeen, who
was then Foreign Secretary in Sir Robert Peel's
Cabinet, was also among the guests at Taymouth on
this occasion. He was one of the most distinguished
men in Europe, a trusted friend of all the Continental
Sovereigns in the great contest with Napoleon, and had
a wide reputation for culture of all kinds.
On the day of the Queen's departure, it was arranged
that many of the party should go up to the western
end of Loch Tay in boats, whilst others, who were
going on with the Queen to Drummond Castle, were
Ito go by road along the shores of the lake, ascend Glen
Dochart, and then descend Glenogle to Crieff.     was

among the boating-party to the head of Loch Tay.
One of the beauties of Taymouth is a broad green
terraced walk from the castle along the river-banks
near the point where it issues from the lake in a broad
and silent, but deep and rapid, stream. The walk is
bordered by fine beech-trees, and the banks are
adorned with barberry-bushes hanging their scarlet
berries over the dark water. On the north the scene
is framed by the finely-wooded steep called Drummond
Hill. A little flotilla of boats awaited us near the
arches of the bridge which carries the road over the
Iriver at its exit.  remember nothing of those who
Imade up the party in the boat in which went, except
Ithat one member of it was Sir Robert Peel.       have
I Ialready expressed the respect and admiration in which
  held him, and was anxious to meet him in private

life. In that sphere, however, his manners were so
reserved that only those who were admitted to his
intimacy could fully enjoy his conversation. The
handsome boat in which we were seated happened to
be called the Galley of Lome, and the conversation at
one moment turning on the ancient galley form of

Ivessels, recollect expressing great admiration of its
Ipicturesqueness, and adding that should much like
to see one built on the old model. Sir Robert sur

1841-42]     THE QUEEN AT TAYMOUTH                          187

prised me by asking gravely, ' But what would be the
use of it ?' We all landed at Auchmore, a shooting-
lodge belonging to Lord Breadalbane, where there was a
wonderful luncheon for the Queen, the Prince, and the
whole party. We saw her drive off to Drummond
Castle, and  tIhtenwarsetuarlnteodgetihner  our   fleet of  boats to
Taymouth.                                         splendid  pageant.
                                               a
But what impresses itself most on me now, writing
fifty-five years later, is the sad recollection that of all
Ithat

three
bsriullrivainvot rscomnopwan--y tthheereQuaeree,n,sothfaer  as know, only
                                                            Dowager Lady
Ellesmere (then Lady Mary Campbell), and myself.

                 CHAPTER IX

                         1842-43

                 FOREIGN TRAVEL

Soon after    mI yshroeutludrngohoambreoadfroamnd  Taymouth    it was
settled that                                        spend the
                                                               winter
Iin Rome. My father asked Howson to remain as my

tutor till should come of age, whilst he also looked
out for a medical man to accompany me on the
Continent. In this capacity it was fortunate for me
that he secured the services of a man who became one

of my dearest and most intimate friends during the
remainder of his life, and for a very long period of my
own. This was Dr. W. F. Cumming, a younger son
of the Cummings of Logie, a small estate on the banks
of the Findhorn in Morayshire. He had been an army
surgeon in India, where his health had broken down,
and he had retired on a pension from the East India
Company. He had spent much of his time in travelling
all over Europe, in Egypt, in America, and in the
West    Indies,  and had published a pleasant book
called  ' Notes  of a Wanderer in Search of Health,'
about which and some of its peculiarities there was
endless chaff between us. He had previously travelled
with my   cousin, young John Campbell of           Islay, and
was well  known and well loved by all that
                                                   family. I
Ihad myself only seen him once before he came to me,

but soon became strongly attached to him, as every
one did who came to know him well. With a strong,
simple, and manly character, he had a somewhat stiff
and formal manner on first acquaintance, and a deep
bass voice like a trombone. This, together with a tall,

                 188

         FIRST VISIT TO PARIS               189

thin, and very gaunt figure, a slow and very distinct
pronunciation, and a punctilious regard for the most
correct grammar, so often compromised by slovenly
colloquialisms, gave a rather formidable first impres

sion. But the moment the ice was broken, he was
always felt to be the most delightful of companions,
full of playfulness, and with a fund of quotations from
IShakespeare and from Pope. He soon became as

much attached to me as was to him, though neither
Iof us ever said one single word of compliment or
sentiment to each other.  soon found that ' the
doctor ' was known in every capital of Europe where
there was any English society, and that he was always
hailed with a heartiness which showed no common
recognition of his fine but very peculiar character.

  It is strange to me now to remember how absolutely
different everything then was in the life of travelling
from that which it has since become. Our first step
was to buy in London a large yellow chariot carriage,
roomy enough to hold three sitting side by side.
Fortunately, we had all thin figures, and what the doctor
always called a ' dilly ' was procured, which held our

party of three quite comfortably. In this carriage we
posted to Dover, and from Calais posted all the way,
first to Paris, and then through France to Marseilles.
It is needless to give any details, though the kind of
travelling, alike in its inconveniences and in its
delights, is unknown to this generation.
There are, however, some incidents in that journey
which are deeply graven in my memory. The first
Iwas the strong feeling of aversion with which saw
IParis.  had been reading much about the great
IRevolution, and had a vivid sense of the hideous
exhibition of human passion and wickedness which had
been developed then. This feeling was so strong in
Ime that it poisoned any pleasure might     have had in

the beauty of the city or of its contents.   It pursued
Ime when went to see Fontainebleau and Versailles ;
the vision of Marie Antoinette, as described in the

190                            FOREIGN TRAVEL                        [chap, rx

Iassionate and touching oratory of Burke, floated

before me when looked at the Petit Trianon, and an
intense hatred and disgust of the brutality of her
gaolers and  Ihesrabwutcwhiethrs      filled me to the brim. The
only thing                            pleasure was the Forest of
Fontainebleau, where the stately beeches and oaks

I Irecalled to me the loveliest scenes at home. In the

beautiful glades of that forest felt as if had escaped
for a moment from the polluted atmosphere of revo
lutionary France.

  IDuring our journey southward as far as Lyons,
was disappointed by the tameness of the scenery, un
relieved by the woods and hedgerows which redeem the
flattest scenery in England; whilst the long, straight
chaussee roads, bordered by a wearisome perspective of
ILombardy poplars, were a painful contrast to the wind

ing woodland ways by which had been accustomed
to post at home. We took the journey by easy stages,
some fifty or sixty miles a day, and rested every night
at   aAucxoemrrfeor--taabnled  inn.  oAnlylo--veslytillthdowueglhls  small cathedral
at                             this                                  in my memory.
     Any tedium in our journey was relieved by some
reading, and by many games of chess, in which

Ithe doctor and were about fairly matched. At
ILyons was laid up with a severe bronchial cold,
which gave the doctor his first opportunity of exer
cising his professional skill upon me. He administered
Iwhat                                              either             before or
                                                   under             which my
since
     --hnaasmneelyv,era        been   given to me
                                dose  of morphia,

cold disappeared. Of course saw nothing of Lyons,
Iexcept that on the first day of our arrival we visited

the citadel. There for the first time saw a massive
bit of Roman masonry, with the beautiful herring
       brIitckwwaosrklikwehifcehelinisg  so characteristic           of their
bone                                     the first sensible          touch of
work.
Roman power, and that is one of the most interesting
Iexperiences of life. Fresh from the pages of Gibbon

and of Arnold, looked with reverence on the remains
of one of the great settlements in Gaul. But the cold,

1842]  THE RHONE -- MONT BLANC           191

raw, and foggy weather natural to the confluence of
two great rivers determined us to hurry on to the
sunny South. Accordingly, our ' dilly ' was embarked
overnight on one of the steamers for Avignon, and
very early in the morning, before sunrise, we went on
board. There the sight of two bearded Frenchmen
kissing and hugging each other, like two big babies,

Ithrew me into such convulsions of laughter that had
to rush upstairs from the cabin to escape observation.
There had been floods for some time both in the Rhone
and in the Saone, and the flat country on the left bank
of the united rivers was more or less under water as
far as the eye could reach.
Soon after we started on the rapid and sweeping
waters of the Rhone, the eastern sky began to be
deeply tinted with those wonderful colours which
Ihave been one of the favourite images of poetry since
poetry was born.  was watching them intently,
so different from the equally glorious but very
different colours of the sunset. The wintry branches
of the trees in the flooded country showed a rich and
warm brown against the rising bands of crimson. A
low margin of deep purple-blue began to be distinguish
Iable from a bank of unillumined clouds. Then sud

denly saw rising out of the low purple rim a small
but conspicuous projection with a sharp conical
Ipoint, the whole very much like the outline of a

shark's tooth. saw it was a hill, but it was impossible
to judge of the distance or the size. So, going up to

Ithe steersman, with whom was nearly alone on deck,
I asked him if he knew what hill that was. His
answer was prompt: 'Monsieur, c'est Mont Blanc'

IImpressed as was at the time by this great interest
IIadded to the peculiarity and beauty of the scene, am

not sure that have not been even more impressed
ever since by the recollection of it. Not often have
we such an object-lesson read to us on what we call
Ithe stupendous mountains of the world.
                                         stood
gazing on Mont Blanc with intense interest till it was

192             FOREIGN TRAVEL                                       [chap. IX

hid from our view as we descended the Valley of the
Rhone. One thing indeed very remarkable about its
appearance was that, however small and insignificant

it might be on the scale of the earth's surface, it was
indeed the ' monarch of mountains ' in Europe. Not
       of   thneeaorltyherrivAallsp--inenostumonmeitosf,  which in  Switzerland
one     so                                                them was  even visible
look
against the dawn of that splendid sunrise. They
were merged and dwarfed in one indistinguishable
         of smaller crumplings on the                     horizon.
maIsts  is at Avignon that a traveller                     from the  North  of
Europe first breathes the balmy air and sees the
glorious light and sunshine of the South. The rush
into that change of climate from the cold raw fogs of
Lyons was my first experience of a transition which
Ihas ever since made me feel almost an ecstasy of delight

as often as have made the journey. From Avignon
we posted to Marseilles, reaching that city so late in
the evening that my attention was much drawn to the
constellation of Orion, from the great increase of
brilliancy with which all the heavenly bodies are seen
in the less vaporous atmosphere of the Mediterranean
shores. Again embarking our ' dilly ' aboard a steamer
Ifor Genoa, we took our passage by the same route.

     was enraptured by the intense blue of the Mediter
Iranean, so entirely different from the colour of our own
seas.       had admired much the green pellucid waters
at Iona, and the surface reflections of any thin tint of
Iblue. But the pure and soft cobalt of the Mediter
ranean was absolutely new to me.                          sat all day
Ilooking into it over the side of the vessel, and at night

   watched it not less intently on account of the
beautiful luminosities which shone in the broken water

of the paddle-wheels. Besides innumerable sparkles
of light, there were great globes and balls of pale
Iphosphorescent fire continually shining and disap
pearing.    did not then know to what cause this
phenomenon was due, and it engaged all my curiosity
and attention.

1842] GENOA --ROME 193

  It is not a favourable way of seeing a new and

beautiful coast, to see it from the sea. AH the pictur-
esqueness of details is wanting, both as to forms and
as to colour. On the other hand, some general features
are better seen in this way than in any other. Two
of these features struck me much : the first was the

stony nakedness of the great background of the
Maritime Alps ; and the other was the way in which all
the old towns were perched on the very tops of the

lower and more wooded range. A moment's reflection,
however, explained the cause. This choice of situation
was a relic of the military ages, when communities
thought above all things of safety from the ravages of
war, or from the attacks of pirates, in the case of coast

towns.
The vessel reached Genoa during the night, and it
IIwaksnenwot
         until    came  on deck on a sunny morning     that
         what           to see an Italian city in its  own
                it was
Ibrilliant atmosphere.
                         Irewmaesmnboetr    feeling literally
dazzled, and on landing                   less delighted by
the incomparable street architecture of the Genoese
palaces. Returning to the vessel, we pursued our way
to Civita Vecchia, whence we posted to Rome. The
approach to Rome from the west is not the most
favourable. The country is without feature, and yet
the elevation is so considerable that Rome is lower,
and nothing but the upper half of the dome of St.
Peter's is visible, till one comes close to the descent
behind the Vatican. The only thing which delighted
me in the drive was the evergreen scrub of myrtle,
box, and other shrubs which covered most of the
country. Its peculiar scent also attracted my atten

Ition, and do not all such odours so associated become

delicious ? Whenever in later life have caught a
chance whiff from a planted box-tree, that first drive
in sunny Italy rises before me in the happy eyes of

memory.
We spent three months in Rome, in a lodging in
the Via Due Macelli, a street that runs westward out
vol. i.
                                          13

194                 FOREIGN TRAVEL               [chap, it

oRGforemtgheoeryPoifaXzLVzeaIo. dwiXaSIspIIa.agnavae.nrdyRoodfmiffeeKrieninngtthHpeluapmcoebnetfirrfiotc.mateTthhoeef
Government, though sleepy, was at least respectable.
The city was quiet, and the people peaceable. There
Iwas none of the stir of  life inseparable from  afomreoigdner--n
                          society was chiefly
political capital. The
foreign, mean, to Italy. There was, as always, a
large contingent from England, and a less considerable
one from America. But during my visit there was not
a single man or woman whose acquaintance exercised
any influence upon me. My own aunt, Lady Charlotte
IBury, with her only daughter by her second marriage,

was then resident in Rome, and had often pleasant
evenings with them. To the last days of her existence
she had great remains of her early beauty, an extra
ordinary charm of manner, and no small knowledge of
literature and of art. The house of the American
sculptor Story was also an agreeable resort. But
on the whole my stay in Rome had but one great joy
to me, and that was our drives in the Campagna.
INeither architecture nor painting gave me one-half
the same pleasure.  was soon tired by the galleries,
but never tired of that wonderful plain to the east
and south of Rome, which, with its exquisite colouring,
backed by the soft blue outline of the Alban Hills,
Iis at once the most interesting historically and the
most beautiful view in Europe.  had imbibed a good
deal of Arnold's passion for the history of Rome, and
Ifor that masterful people who had subdued the world.

  used to gaze and gaze with intense delight on those
outlines of hill and plain which were the daily vision
Iof Caesar and of Cicero, of Trajan and of the Antonines.

Nor did forget that although a holier land and a very
different kind of landscape were the home of the New
Testament, yet that view from Rome was the view on
Iwhich St. Paul looked when he lived three years in
the city, and taught, ' no man forbidding him.'  was

never tired of driving to and fro on the Appian Way.

1842] TIVOLI -- THE CAMPAGNA                    195

It must have been the teaching of Niebuhr repro
duced in Arnold that led me habitually to go back
in reverie to that earlier time when Rome was still a
village on small, inconspicuous hills in the Campagna,
Iand the Romans were only one among the tribes of

Latium. used to look with frequent and imaginative
interest on that lovely mountain, 3,000 feet high,
Iwhere the tribes went up to worship their own Jupiter

Latiaris, and used to wonder how Alba Longa may
Ihave looked from the future site of her imperial

descendant. Yet was young enough to be immensely
amused by the fooleries of the carnival, to admire the
long gay perspective of the Corso during that festival,
with its balconies and windows like a garden of
brilliant colours. The musical cry, ' Ecco fiori !' seems
I Istill ringing in my

smell the delicious
and profusion.  ears as recall the scene, and can
                violets --new to me in such richness

As spring began we made an excursion to Tivoli and
IAlbano. Near the site of Hadrian's Villa, at the foot

of the hills, saw for the first time the ground covered
Iwith violets, which seemed wild and entirely unculti

vated. On the road above it saw, also for the first
time, fine specimens of the olive-tree, with the great
trunks like enormous elephantine growths, grotesque,
but beyond everything picturesque. Nothing in the
Iway of vegetation had so delighted me.  admired not

less the graceful curves of all the boughs and the twigs,
and the subdued green and silver of its foliage. We

Idrove for some miles up the Valley of Tivoli, and was
specially interested in some remains of cyclopean walls
on the desolate mountain-slopes above the road. There
was to me something most impressive in that kind of
masonry, even when only fragments of it have survived,
and when the nature and purpose of the building
remain absolutely unknown.
The view of the Campagna from Tivoli is much less
beautiful than the view of it from Rome. The plain
is not vast enough to be sublime, and its western
                                         13--2

196                     FOREIGN TRAVEL             [chap. IX

"boundary behind the Tiber is a line of poor and
Iinconspicuous elevations. On the Alban Hills them
selves,    admired most the long terraced road
round the southern brim of the ancient crater which
contains the Lake of Albano. Fine old ilexes
overshadowed it, whilst the bright blue waters some
hundreds of feet below, and partial glimpses of the
northern Campagna through the evergreen foliage,
made a combination which left a permanent impression
                   oIf  the  loveliest bits of scenery which
Iupon me   as one       was  delighted, too, with the small

   saw in  Italy.
wild pink cyclamens which were coming up under the
oak-copse which clothed the steep sides of the lake.
There are no gregarious wild flowers in any part of
Europe which are to be compared with our own
hyacinths and primroses, but it is a pleasure always
to meet with one which is new to our eyes.
   Early in spring we re-embarked in our    old  ' dilly,'
                               to  mNyapmlees.morOyn--lyonetwios
and posted by easy stages      in
things on that journey linger
the copious and pellucid spring of water which gushes
and rushes in river-like abundance out of the living
Irock by the side of the road near the site of the ancient

Praeneste ; the other is the first sight had of fireflies in
the orange-garden at Mila de Gaeta. As regards the
famous fountain, besides the wonderful beauty of the
water, it has the interest of a natural phenomenon,
which    Iseems to mark and mock the fleeting      life of
human                                              doubt
         generations. If, as believe, there is no
about the identification of that spring with the

Bandusian fountain which is sung by Horace, it is
impossible to look at the joyful welling of its waters
out of their subterranean caverns, without thinking
Iof the contrast with the life even of the most powerful

empires. As regards the fireflies, was delighted with
their beauty, and did not fail to think of the profound
mystery attaching to so small an organism being
enabled to set up special vibrations in that incompre
hensible medium which is the only vehicle of light.

                      NAPLES -- POMPEII                        197

It carried with it, too, a new expression of that sense of
joy which is one of the great sources of our instinctive,
though often our unconscious, pleasure in the aspects
of Nature. The recollection of that orange-garden in
Ia balmy Italian night, with the stars above and the

happy fireflies below, is one which often recall with
immense pleasure.
    We                weeks in Naples and its neighbourhood
--  one  spent some   delight at Castellamare, in company
          of special
with Mr. and Mrs. Callander of Craigforth and Ard-
kinglas. They were old friends of the doctor, and our
nearest neighbours at Inveraray. She was a beautiful
and very charming woman, a daughter of Lord Erskine,
who had been our Minister at the Court of Dresden.
Callander was a man who took a keen enjoyment in
everything, and was especially excited when late one
evening our   Italian   courier entered   the room with the
exclamation,   ' Voila   Mont Vesuve     qui commence faire
eruption.' It turned out, however, to be a false alarm,
and so we escaped all chance of sharing the fate of the
IdeinstaopmpboeindtecditywwithhichPolamypseoii,n--eawr iuths.
                                          As a sight, was
                                         the smallness of
the rooms, and the lowness of the walls of the ancient
houses. To me, the most touching and impressive
sight in Pompeii was the paving-stones made of
blocks of lava, and deeply rutted by the wheels of the
ancient chariots. That was a visible and striking relic
of the daily lives of a long vanished world.
   But there was one thing that  did     not
and that was the great culprit   of      that  dcisaatapsptorionpthem--e,
Vesuvius itself. The first sight of a living volcano is
an epoch in one's life. The central crater was at that
time about 300 feet deep, and by no means inactive.
A small cone at the bottom was every now and
then the seat of explosions, which threw up bombs
or clouds of smoke to a very considerable elevation,
whilst pungent vapours were often caught by gusts of
wind, and enveloped us in their suffocating wreaths.
The roaring, hissing, and bellowing which accom

198         FOREIGN TRAVEL                              [chap. IX

panied these discharges, and which echoed round the

Icontaining walls, seemed to me to be the most truly

awful sounds had ever heard. They carried with
them the impression not only of unimaginable force,
Ibut of that force being uncontrollable and unforseeable
in the manifestations of its energy.        could not help
feeling that, for aught anyone could tell, the hot and
sulphurous cake on which we stood might sink in a
Imoment into the incandescent lavas which were
undoubtedly boiling underneath us.          was therefore
glad to get away from such an image of the infernal

IIregions.                                  the admiration with
      can never adequately express
which every day gazed on one or other of the ex
quisite views from the beautiful promontory between
Castellamare and Sorrento. Monte St. Angelo is one
dopferettachiilpeicomefso,sittsabnecdaoumtitpfhulielcamtefoodruensstttariunscsltoupirenes----Eutirhsoepebr,aevaaiunntedisfu,elvethriyne

Ivarious degrees. There was one steep and narrow

folding in its rocks very near the hotel, to which often
walked, to see the rich underwood of fine tall arbutus
which covered the ground. The bark, the leaves, the
flowers, and the berries, were all lovely in my eyes, to
whom the plant was not absolutely new, but new in
this robustness and perfection of growth, of foliage,
of flower, and of fruit.
    At that time there                                   to Amalfi.
It                       was no    carriage-road        mule-tracks
     was inaccessible   except     by difficult
across the mountains. We therefore went to Salerno,

and hired a rowing-boat to take us along the precipitous
coast to that famous medieval nest, where tradition
says that the Pandects of Justinian were discovered.
IBeautiful as every spot must be on that lovely coast,
   was not  aItttrarectqeudiretso   Amalfi   as even a  conceivable
residence.                         robust   health and  accustomed
limbs to live in a place where one cannot walk in any
direction without climbing precipitous surfaces by
steps cut in the living rock. A fine road has now been

1842]                      PJESTUM                          199

Icut from Salerno to Amain, and that road, which have
not seen, must be among the most beautiful in Europe.
My great preference for the aspects of Nature over
the works of man had stood the test even of St. Peter's,
as compared with the Campagna of Rome and the
encircling mountains of the ancient Latium. But
there was one scene in the Neapolitan region which
tried this preference very hard, and that scene was the
Temples of Paestum, to which we drove in magnificent
weather from Salerno. No other triumph of human
architecture has ever      had the                          upon me.
Those three solitary        temples  --sapmeerfeecftfectin    external
preservation, exquisite in a tint of golden yellow,
standing in an absolutely deserted plain covered with a
low growth of              of box and myrtle, with a fine
strip of the  ineffable    Mediterranean   blue  ofonrgthoettehno.rizoInt
line to the   east -- are  a sight never  to be
is true that in this case some of the greatest charms of
Nature and of Art are inseparably blended. On the one
hand, the colouring of Nature is magnificent. On the
other hand, the buildings in themselves, and in their
ta--nhsoeshtoactslhiearstessiteoonottshed,amnaipnrele2sto,h3--fe0s0duseridypmieacpasalrsetsie.ndgmtaIiontjetesPitrsoyessetthio.defoniTtmshtoehrseetlapSropgeseeears-fgtefoocodrtf
example existing in the    Iwtorilsd   of  the earliest Doric
architecture of Greece.               the  relic of a people

which, besides other claims upon our gratitude, was
the first to teach the world how to colonize, as
distinguished from merely conquering, other countries
than their own. The absolute desolation of the sur
rounding plain, so far as human habitations are con
cerned, is a feature all the more striking when one
knows that Paestum was one of the most flourishing
cities of Magna Graecia. But, after all, the interest
centres in the grand, simple, and masterful masonry
of the temple, with its noble and perfect columns and
its wonderful expression of massiveness and repose.
       Returning to Naples, we embarked in a steamer for

200                       FOREIGN TRAVEL                       [chap. IX

a short visit to Malta,           stopping at    MeI sssianwa  and at
Syracuse on our way.                                           a small
                                  In Stromboli
but very active volcano, and in Etna a mighty one,
which seemed very nearly asleep. A fiery glow came
from Stromboli, and only a long thin ribbon of smoke
from Etna. But a mountain cone of 10,000 feet must

Ialways be a stupendous object.

   Howson was more interested in Syracuse than was,
thinking as he did of Thucydides and the famous siege.
There are no architectural remains worth seeing, but
theAtgrMeaatlteaxcIavsatatiyoend  of the         quarries is very curious.
                                  only    open    days, and was enter
                                          a few
tained with great honour by the officers of the 42nd
Highlanders, whose Colonel was then Colonel Mac-
dougall, a younger brother of Macdougall of Gallan-
ach, who was one of my father's oldest friends.
At the dinner given to me no less than sixteen
                          'The Campbells         are coming,' which
pI ipsehrosuldplayheadve                         rather a trial. But
                          expected to be
they played so beautifully together, and the room
Iwas so lofty and spacious, that the effect was less for
midable than might have been expected.                         was sur
prised by the magnificence of the palaces of the old
Knights of Malta. They are certainly among the very
handsomest in Europe. The story of the Knights
Templars is one of the strangest episodes in medieval
history. The island itself, with its interminable
stretches of glaring white                       thdeikeosnlyentchloinsigngI  tiny
fields, did not attract me,               stone
                                          and                                  saw

which was beautiful was a basket of newly-caught fish
on a woman's head. They seemed to be all of the
most brilliant colours, like a number of precious
stones, and entirely unlike the fish of our more Northern
seas. Some of these, indeed, as the herring and the
mackerel, show the finest colours of the iridescent class.
But many of the Mediterranean fish are splendidly
coloured in ordinary light, and do not depend on mere
glances. This is partly due to the abundance of
species belonging to the wrasse family, many of which

1842]   WILLOW-WRENS IN ROME                                   201

are brilliantly coloured in blues, greens, and reds. A
few of these, though not common, are found in our

Iseas ; one especially, a specimen of which have seen
caught at Tobermory, was of a golden yellow, variegated
wiItth  a fine cobalt
        was no part       blue.   plan   to go  farther  east  than
                          of our
Malta. Our intention was to visit some of those fair
regions of Italy which lie between the Alps and Rome,
Ibut which we had missed by adopting the sea-route
from Marseilles to Civita Vecchia.              cannot leave this
record of our stay in Rome without mention of a cir
cumstance which gave me great pleasure at the time,
I I IOa1n8n4de3h--daasyrewinmasathiwneeadlmkiaindgpdlleeoanosaf tnwhteinsptPeoirtn--icniom,tehwmihnoekrnyinevJsaearnwusianarcnyed,.
heard the movement of wings in the olives and other
Ievergreens of the gardens there. On watching more

closely, was greatly surprised to see a number of birds,
which could be nothing else than willow-wrens, dis
porting themselves in the sunshine and catching flies.
No bird was more familiar to me, and none so insepar
ably connected with my earliest and most happy

associations. In my Ardencaple days the willow-wren
was always the first herald of the spring, before
the swallow or any other of the migratory group.
There was a clump of larches in a very sheltered sunny
spot, on which the lovely green pencils of the larch buds

Iwere always the first to appear, and there used to

go every year about the middle of April, to see if
Ithealwwaillyosw-wharedn    had             And there, accordingly,
                          first   come.  that gentle and delicious
                                 heard
I Isong which fear escapes most ears altogether.
had supposed that, like most of our summer birds
Iof passage, the willow-wren                             in Africa, and
                                         wIitntweraesd,  therefore, with
not in any part of Europe.
infinite delight that recognised my favourite on the
Pincian Hill at Rome. Those who have never had a
passion for any branch of natural history can hardly
understand the delight which this discovery gave me.

202  FOREIGN TRAVEL  [chap. IX

IIt found expression in the first tolerable verses ever

wrote. They have since been published in my later
years, and are included in the volume of poems
entitled 'The Burdens of Belief.' The song of the
willow-wren is too low a warble to attract general
attention, but to me it carries with it an expression
of love, gentleness, and pure enjoyment, such as no
other song conveys.

   Beginning our journey homewards when the spring
of 1843 was well advanced, we posted to Florence,
stopping for a day and night at Perugia for the purpose

Iof seeing Assisi. With the famous church there and

the tomb of St. Francis was much impressed. The
low, rather dark, vaulted church beneath, containing
the tomb, with the elaborate allegorical frescoes painted
by Giotto and his contemporaries, and then the tall
Gothic church above, struck me much as a most unusual
and a most beautiful combination, and inspired me

Iwith such a sense of interest and admiration that

began and soon finished a short poem in blank verse
of the Wordsworthian type, which Howson pronounced

Ito be ' well and worthily written in that style.'

remember now only some portions of it. One passage,
describing the contrast between the lower and the
upper church, has so dwelt in my memory, that in

I Ilater years have often found myself repeating it.

therefore will give the lines here :

                                           ' And as we passed

                  From those low arches to the upper shrine,
                High drawn in loftiness and full of light,

              It seemed as if we followed still the way

                Of emblematic feeling, and the course
                Of things yet unfulfilled ; for even as
                The solemn place which we had left did seem
                To symbolize the quietness of Death,
                Its vaulted calmness, and its sacred rest,

                So those tall columns and high pointing roof,
                Ascending, still ascending, seem to speak
               That glorious hope --the Resurrection.'

1843]                                 FLORENCE                           203

There could be no doubt in this case as to the
impressiveness of the whole, or as to the singular
harmony between the forms of art and the emotions
of religion. The lower church was essentially tomb
tliekme,plaapteprothperiadteead,to--  the    feelings with which
                                      their   ' vaulted calmness '   we  con
                                                                    and  their
' sacred rest.' And not less appropriate was the upper
church, with its beautiful ascending lines, and in the
blaze of light, to the resurrection hopes of Christian
Ibelief. The
siveItnewssa,s  and  Iwhole was unique          in beauty and       impres
                 at                             remembered it       as such.
                         have ever since                            felt for
                     Florence, however, that really
the first time that high enjoyment of pure art which
nothing but a gradual education in it can develop.
St. Peter's at Rome never
except that of vastness.                     Idtid negviveer  me any feeling
                                                              struck me as

suggestive of any religious emotion whatever; and
though its proportions are of course fine, they had not,

Ion me, the effect of beauty. But the moment turned
Ithe corner of the narrow street which opens in Florence

upon the great Piazza, in which saw at a glance
                       Duomo, Giotto's            Campanile, and the
                     felt at once that          was in the presence of
IBBraupnteisllteesrcyh,i'sI
Ithe power of pure beauty, which art had never made me

feel before. There is, so far as know, only one other
group of buildings in the world which can rival, or
even approach, that matchless heart and centre of

consummate art. All else in the way of architecture,
always with the same one exception, is by comparison
Iof an almost boundless inferiority.                                did not,
Iindeed, then feel, nor do now feel, that this incom
parable group of buildings appealed to any religious
                ionwrapswroaspsiomraptsilosyonc,iaataevndidsiowinnitchooflaomnuyra--tcshpthlieresitsutraibulemaausppthyir--aof
Iemotion,

tion. It

in form,
unrivalled art. used to go back, over and over again,
to the corner of the Piazza from which the grouping is
best, and gaze and gaze in a sort of trance of pleasure.
There is one point only which that group possesses

204               FOREIGN TRAVEL                          [chap. IX

in common with many others, and that is the effect
of a great dome lifted into the sky as the crown and
consummation of a great structure. And in this one
feature the Duomo of Florence asserts, in my opinion,
its  immense superiority over   all others, on account         of
the  curvature of the dome.                                    to
                               It has always appeared
me that the peculiar curve of that dome is by far the
most beautiful in the world. Our own St. Paul's
Cathedral has a very beautiful dome, but Wren's
creation is not so beautiful as Brunelleschi's. The
dome of St. Peter's at Rome is very inferior and not

Iso effective.

   For the galleries of Florence cared comparatively
little, my art education not having yet advanced so far
as to enable me to appreciate as some do, and as many
more, perhaps, pretend to do, the pictures and frescoes
of the early Italian schools. As to the famous Venus de

IMedici, could not admire it, and never have succeeded
Iin doing so. thought, if that were the type of an ideal

beauty, it was a mercy that no woman was ever really
Ilike it. There was indeed one work of art, or rather

one group of works of art, by which was much im
pressed, and that was the famous group of figures on
tnvhaeetriiottanomb--lbybsuoutfpetehxrephruMemsesadinvice--i obTfiytnaoMntiihccihnacger,el aaAtsunrigteessloeoe.fmtehTdehetiomy amagreie,
except enormous power. That group is undoubtedly
one of the wonders of the world of art, although the
attitudes of the figures are too violent to be natural,

and give one the idea of the artist having revelled in

Ithe mere wantonness of his strength. But from the

galleries always escaped as soon as possible to indulge
my old passion for landscape beauty, and assuredly the
VaIltdis'Aornneo   did much to satisfy
                  of the peculiarities of  my tastes.     the  same
                                           Florence that

wonderful group of buildings dominates the city from
every point of view. Exquisite as they are in them
selves, they are not less lovely when seen from a distance,

Icrowning the whole city with a diadem of beauty.

1843]                 FLORENCE --PISA                                   205

was particularly delighted with the old                        eagle's  --ntehset
from which Florence had originally                               come
beautiful Fiesole, with its massive and prehistoric walls
of defence on the northern escarpment of its hill. The
view thence of the Valley of the Arno, from far above
Florence on the east to far down the river on the west,
is one of the historic landscapes of the world, though
not comparable either in beauty or in interest with
the views on the Roman Campagna.
Before leaving Florence the doctor advised me to see
a museum of anatomical models executed in wax, which,

Ihe said, were famous. It was there saw a model of
Iwhich have made much use in later years. It was the
--moadeskl aotfethweelvlokltnaoicwnbaitntetrhye  with   wofhNicahpltehse--todripsechdaorgfeissh
                                                 Bay
electric shocks for the capture of its prey, and for its
own              --nTahmiselwya, s  all in the line of my father's
old    defence.                     animal mechanics, and the
       pursuits
structure of living organs for the discharge of function.
The only unusual circumstance in this case was the
great peculiarity of the function, and the consequent
equally great peculiarity of the apparatus constructed

Ifor its discharge. Of course in every glass case which
    saw there were wonderful apparatuses displayed,
some of them with almost inconceivable complexities
of structure. But, somehow, there was not one of them
which struck me so much ; none of them seemed, as it
                      artificial,
were, so obviously     of this                     so   puIrtelylaymienchtawnoicaglr,eaast
the electric battery                             fish.

masses, one on each shoulder, on either side of the spine,
and they so closely resembled the structure of the
batteries constructed by man for chemical and me

chanical work that it was impossible not to see the
Iidentity of principle, and even of details, between the
two.      did  nIotshthouenld  know how                 much   it meant, or the
use to  which                   be able to              apply  it in far-distant

years.
   From Florence we went to Pisa, posting all the way
down the Val d'Arno. The group of buildings at

206        FOREIGN TRAVEL                                  [chap. IX

PItisadocehsallennogtescosmomee  comparison  with that at  Florence.
                                 up to the   same high     standard.
Nothing does. The Leaning Tower of Pisa exceeded
Imy expectations as to the extent of its departure from
the perpendicular, and              was much      amused to find
that, in running up the          circular stairs  to the top, the
effect of the leaning was unpleasantly apparent in the
sense of precipitation felt when one's body follows the
           turn of the steps.    The same force or swing
declining  needed to take one
which is                         up the ascending turn is
considerably more than enough to take one up the
down-hill turn, and this produces a somewhat headlong
feeling which is not agreeable. As regards the
cathedral, indeed, though it has no external feature
like the Florentine Duomo, yet its interior is far the
Imore beautiful of the two.      thought it then by far
I Ithe most beautiful church had yet seen, and still
think of it as the most perfect specimen of purely
Italian  Church architecture in the world.
         one of the great delights of travelling           in Italy
  It is
that almost every considerable town one comes to
is remarkable for some one or more events famous in
the history of civilization, of science, and of literature.
The whole country is covered with spots which are, as
it were, spots of light, from which some special radiance
has gone forth to illuminate the world. Of no other
country in the world can this be said, excepting only,
and that in a supreme degree, the small country which
Iwe justly call the Holy Land.

      looked with immense curiosity on the beautiful
pendant lamp of wrought bronze hanging in the
transept of the cathedral at Pisa, which is said
to have first attracted the attention of Galileo to

the laws governing the swinging of a pendulum,
whilst the experiments of the same great man in
gravitation are not improbably connected with the
I ILeaning Tower. With the famous Campo Santo of

Pisa was, must confess, disappointed. A large
square is enclosed by cloisters, with no ornament

1843]                           PISA                              207

whatever of the central space. The cloister arches are
not lofty or impressive, and the whole is destitute even
of any tombs of remarkable beauty. One monument
only arrested my attention, and has ever since dwelt
in my memory as a vivid representation of a great
name in the Middle Ages. That monument is remark
              its severe                                         There is an entire
able for     of ornament.  simItpliicsitya.                   statue of the German
absence                           Pisa
                                is a
Emperor      who died       at                 during one     of  his
invasions    of Italy.                       simple figure    of  the
                           It
Emperor,     representing him as      Iltyinigs
The face      is not idealized.                               dead on a pallet.
                                                              a large-featured,
almost a coarse face. But it is an unmistakable
portrait, true to life, and, above all, true to death and
Ito the expression of an ended power.

   But, after all, am not sure that what struck me most
at Pisa was not its comparative desertedness. Although
empire has long departed from Italy, even the empire
of letters and of art, its principal capitals still feel the

stir of human life. In Rome there was the bustle
of a large moving population, as in Naples and in
Florence. But at Pisa in 1843 the streets seemed

silent,      aInntderenveecninesinsgtrleifef--ooftifearclles   were audible among
                                                              and devastating wars
t--hewme.re  itnhethgeregaret actauchsearaocf teitrsistdicecloinfem. edIinevtahlisItaitlyo--nlya

shared
strange mixture of the highest civilization in art and
the utmost barbarism in factious hatreds. But there
was another cause affecting Pisa which was not shared
by others. Pisa is one of the few cases in which the fate
of cities has been changed for the worse in historical
times by the operation of geological causes. The Arno
at Florence does not generally seem a very powerful
river. Yet the mass of mud which it carries down
with it from year to year, from the rich valley through
which it runs, has been sufficient to make Pisa an
island instead of a maritime city, and to reduce the
Ionce proud rival of Genoa to the condition almost of
a stranded town.           understand that the new con

208           FOREIGN TRAVEL                               [cnip. IX

ditions of our modern life have brought                    its currents
back to this lovely old centre of Italian
                                                           genius. It
is the seat of a thriving University, and railways are a
substitute for the sea, so that it has a rapidly increasing
and prosperous population.
   Returning to Florence, we        posted   to Bologna -- from
IBologna, byfoFrerVreanraice.andIt  Padua, to
                                    was from     the place of
embarkation                                    the hills above
Bologna that first saw the Plain of Lombardy,
undoubtedly one of the most striking of all the land
scapes of Europe. At that moment in the full burst
of spring, it was glorious indeed, with its enormous
expanse of rich and wooded land and its encircling

Iboundary of the glittering Alps. At Ferrara, even

more than at Pisa, was struck by the atmosphere of
Idesertion, and not less by the beauty of the brickwork
ornamentation in some of its ancient buildings.            had
read a good deal of the palmy days when Renee,
Duchess of Ferrara, had sheltered and encouraged the
earliest standard-bearers of the Reformation, so that
Iits empty streets and vacant palaces seemed doubly

melancholy to me. At Padua saw for the first time,
Iin the cathedral there, the influence of Byzantine forms

on the classical architecture of Italy, and confess I
did not admire it. The substitution of a number of
small stumpy cupolas for one great dome destroys all
grandeur and simplicity of effect.

  I have ever since remembered with great pleasure

Ithat approached and arrived at Venice in the old
way, when as yet no railway viaduct spanned her
ancient inviolable lagune. Her dream-like beauty rose
gradually out of the glassy water as we neared the
outskirts and entered the Grand Canal, in that most
          ofItalwl asconinveythaenceesa,rly
dreamy                                       the smooth    and silent
gondola.                                      sunshine of  a glorious
Iday. No description

the singular loveliness
              can ever                       quIittewpasrerpicahreer,onfuellefor,r
              of Venice.                     had imagined--

more enchanting, than anything
every boat's-length seeming more beautiful than that

STL 4.

I
 I

           VENICE -- LOMBARDY                       209

preceding, until the glorious pageant ended in our being
landed at the Piazza of St. Mark in a blaze of blinding
sunshine. Nothing that has ever happened to me in
the way of seeing has approached the impression of

that moment. In describing my sense of beauty on

Ifirst seeing the great group of the Florentine Piazza,
made one exception as to immense superiority to any
other buildings in the world. That exception was
intended to refer to Venice, and especially to the
Doge's Palace and the Church of St. Mark. Of course,
between two styles of architecture so absolutely
different  there can be  no common   aslitkaendinardthiosf--ctohmat
parison.                 groups are
            But the two
they are both absolutely perfect, each in its own way ;
they both at once silence criticism, and fill us with a
sense of beauty entirely satisfied. Such, at least, was
my feeling about them. As creations of art they are

I Iboth unique. On the whole am still, as was then,
disposed to assign the palm to Venice, in spite of there
being, perhaps because of there being, a certain
element of comparative barbarism in the Oriental
translation of Gothic feeling.
On leaving Venice, we travelled leisurely through
Lombardy on the great road to Milan, stopping at all
the old cities on the way, and at one place which was
not a city, but which gave me, perhaps, more pleasure
than any other ; this was Desenzano, a village at the
southern end of the Lago di Garda. This was my
first view of any of the Italian lakes, and its beautiful
peculiarities did not escape my notice. Stretching
away northward into the Alpine ranges, but not wholly
surrounded by or embosomed in them, it enjoys at its
southern end a wide and a comparatively low horizon ;
whilst the perspective of its distant shores, lost in blue
and purple valleys, is a worthy setting for its ex
Iquisitely coloured

never seen before
           --waategrrse.en      This was a colour had
                                 which seems peculiar to
streams flowing from the  melting of glaciers,  whIetnisalal
their mud has had space   and time to settle.
vol. i.
                                                14

210              FOREIGN TRAVEL                            [chap, rx

different green  from that          of  opuerrfoewctniown esatterInonsah.oresI,t  as
                 example,           in
it appears, for                                                                   is
a paler, as it were a more opalescent, green, and when
mingled with the blue reflections of an Italian sky, its
tones are exquisite indeed. We did not fail to drive to
the neighbouring famous promontory of Sirmio, the
Isite of the famous villa of Catullus. No more beautiful

spot can be conceived, and enjoyed immensely a long
lounge in the grass and under the olives of a garden
which, with whatever loss of classic ornaments, was
still the scene which inspired the passionate love of
one of the best of the old Roman poets. On another
day we took a drive to the little town of Salo, situated

on the western shore of the lake, close to where it
passes into the mountain country leading towards the
greItatwraifst  occupied by the Valley of   the Adige.
                a beautiful drive, passing  at one point   under

a ridge crowned by one of those vast medieval castles
which are the most striking among the many links of
history in that most historic land. On our drive we
met many country carts, with peasants taking their
produce to market in the larger towns, and were sur
prised to see them all salute us with a kindly greeting,
Ialthough they must have seen that we were complete

strangers. This great courtesy of manner is, think,
peculiar to the peasantry of Italy, and it is pleasant
to think that it is one of the signs of their very ancient
civilization.

  IAt Salo we visited a silk factory, and there
Isaw what had never seen before, and have never

seen since -- the process of winding off the raw silk
from the cocoons of the caterpillar which spins the
thread from which the most precious of human attire
is woven. The cocoons were thrown into tanks con
taining hot water, which seemed to dissolve or loosen
the glutinous matter by which they were held together ;
and the end of the thread being caught, it was reeled
off by   woImt eseneminetdo  balls  of the most  lustrous
yellow.                      to me  that no dye  was ever  golden
                                                           half so

1843] THE AT7STRIANS IN ITALY 211

Ibeautiful,and                   felt  inclined to wish that   all    silken
        were                           of the raw material.           is the
garments                       made                            It

value of the cocoon, which this caterpillar weaves for
its own abode during the mysterious processes of
metamorphosis, that determines one of the great
bpaercduyli--arintiaesmeolyf,  the   rich and beautiful Plain of      Lom-
                                the  almost universal cultivation     of the
mulberry-tree. Pollard mulberries line the roads ; they
line the ditches ; they line the divisions of the little
fields in which the crops are cultivated ; they are the
standards to which the vines are attached, as they are
festooned from one to another in graceful wreaths.
The rich colouring of blue lupines and of scarlet clovers,
with the young green of various cereals, under an open
but an almost continuous forest of leafage, all one
ceaseless sheet of careful cultivation, make Lombardy
in early summer a joyous and delicious land to see.
And if the eye is ever wearied by a monotony even of
richness, we have generally not far to go for glimpses
of the glorious Alpine ranges to the north, or of the
softer blue mountain outlines to the south. Then,
besides all this, there was the general impression of a
        pweoeplll-eg.oveIrtnemd ucstoubnetryrecaonldlecotfead
thoroughly

Icontented
                                                               prosperous,
                                                                that am
speaking of 1843, when as yet all the political passions
             in  1848 were at          least sleeping,  if not extinct.
reawakened  the    dominion            of one race
                                                        over another
  If ever
seemed justified by at least material prosperity, it was
the dominion of the Austrian Empire over its Italian
provinces at that time. There was no offensive parade
of military repression. Austrian bands discoursed
sweet music in the Piazza of St. Mark at Venice, and in
the other leading garrisoned towns. But beyond that,
the military uniform was never obtruded on the view.
The roads were magnificent. The posting arrange
ments were admirable. The whole face of the people
and of the country was the face of pleasantness and
                boatman, indeed, on
peace.    One  of the ' bruti Tedeschi.'  Lago                 Maggiore,
spoke   to us
                                            But                it seemed

                                                               14--2

212                    FOREIGN TRAVEL  [chap. IX

rather like an outburst of racial dislike than any
expression of political discontent. Indeed, however
strange it may now sound to say so, it was impossible
Iat that time to think or speak of Italy as a nation.

The famous saying of Prince Metternich, which have
since often heard quoted with ridicule or with indigna
tion, that Italy was ' nothing but a geographical
expression,' was a saying literally and absolutely
true. Although marked off from the rest of Europe
by physical features   more    ddefivinisitieonsth--analtthhoousgeh,whtoicoh,
separate any other     of its  be not less distinct, with
                               language-- yet nevertheless
its people have come to
a substantial unity of race
it was then strictly true that historically it had
never been a nation. When it formed part of the
greatest empire the world has ever seen, the name
of Italy was never used even as a geographical
expression. Natural boundaries had no existence in
the magnificent conception of that wonderful people,
whose centre of dominion was, not Italy, but an
Imperial City. The Alps were to them no more than a
range of molehills across a field. And so they ranked
one of the largest and richest provinces of the Italian
peninsula as merely one of the divisions of Gaul. And
when that empire fell to pieces, Italy had fallen to
pieces with it, and for fourteen hundred years had been
the prey of furious factions and of bloody wars between
all its cities, many of them eager to receive the protec
tion of the Teutonic monarchs whose sovereignty they
accIetpitsedo,neanodf                  they were proud to   bear.
                       whose emblems   the world's history  that,
                       the wonders of
nevertheless, under such conditions, the Italian cities
developed a civilization in literature and in art which
has never been equalled or approached. Mere soldiers
of fortune and successful civic leaders rose to be
munificent Princes and patrons of every kind of genius.
They lived a brilliant, tempestuous and voluptuous
life for a time, and then disappeared for ever. But
they have left monuments of beauty, in architecture

1843]                 VERONA                        213

and    in  painting,  whicNhotahriengthIe  delight  and admira
tion   of   mankind.                       saw in
                                                    Italy struck
me more than the beautiful remains left by Princes,
whose picturesquely battlemented towers and walls pro
claimed their long allegiance to Teutonic Sovereigns.
Of all Italian cities, the one which struck me as the
most beautiful was Verona, with the Adige rushing
through it, from that long and deep valley which
gave easy access to Teutonic invaders of the Lom
bard Plain. And in that city no remains struck me
so much as the tombs of the Scaligeri family, whose

sumptuous Court gave refuge to Dante in his exile. In
that brilliant age of Italian history it was no reproach
to the greatest of her Princes that he was the type of
those who leaned on the great German Empire behind
the Alps, nor could Dante even think of Italy as a
country or as a nation to which any such dependence

was forbidden as disloyal. In the magnificent lines
in which the poet celebrates his host, Can Grande, he
never thinks of him as an Italian, a name which would

then have had no significance. The nationality he
assigns to   his    host, as the greatest           could give
him, was          gran Lombardo.' There    he        something
            'il                              is
marvellous in the contrast between the unhappy
political conditions of Italy all through the Middle
Ages and the splendour and intensity of its civic and
provincial life. The churches which were built, the
palaces raised in the streets, the tombs under which
the dead were laid, the town-halls in which business was
conducted, even the towers and walls of defence, were

all beautiful exceedingly, yet all various and original.

  In 1843 Ruskin had not yet risen above the horizon,
to tell us in his perfervid oratory what exactly we are

Ito admire most, and why we ought to do so. But

before his teaching was able to appreciate and to
enjoy intensely such churches as St. Zeno at Verona,
and the exquisite monuments in the same city of the
great House of Scala. My own early education in
landscape had prepared me well for the exquisite

214                 FOREIGN TRAVEL  [chap, rx

colouring and forms of the Alpine ranges, seen through
vistas over a rich country covered with villas, with the
distances well set back by the powerful colouring of the
magnificent cypress-trees which adorn some of the
gardens of Verona.
  IAt Milan, indeed, was  Itgrweaastlyalmdisoaspt pwoiinthteddiswguitsht

the far-famed cathedral.
Ithat saw the vaulted ceiling to be only painted, and
although, no doubt, the exterior has considerable
beauty of proportion and great richness, from the
elaboration of its Gothic pinnacles and innumerable
statues and statuettes, its general effect seemed
altogether wanting in dignity, solemnity, or repose.
But although the famous Duomo of Milan gave me
Ilittle pleasure, there were two things of beauty which

  saw in and from that city which did really answer
to the description of being ' a joy for ever.' One
of these belonged to Nature, whilst the other belonged
to Art. The first of these was the view of the snowy
Alps fringing the northern sky in magnificent per
spective to the east. For this view there is no other
city in the great Lombard Plain so favourably
situated as Milan. Some of those cities are too near,

and the high central ranges are hidden behind the
lower hills. Others, again, are too far off. One of
them, Turin, is too much itself encircled by mountains
of nearly Alpine elevation to see the monarchs of the
chain. But Milan is so placed, both as to distance
Iand as to angular position, with reference to the leading

peaks, that on a fine clear day, such as had, the eye
can take in at a glance that magnificent mountain
chain of eternal snows. Monte Rosa was conspicuous,
comparatively near, and its glorious dome against a
luminous sky of pale green-blue answered well to that
beautifully descriptive name. Seen over the tender
tints of the lower ranges and the rich purples of the
ILombard Plain, this view of the Alps made an impres

sion on me which have never forgotten.
The other vision which, in the world of art, made a

1843] TRAVELLING SY ROAD

similar impression was that of the famous Cenacolo, or
fresco of ' The Last Supper,' by Leonardo da Vinci.

IIt is indeed a shadow, but it is so majestic a shadow

as to be divine. No picture which had then seen,
and only one since, has had a similar effect upon
me. The grouping of the figures, the eagerness and
         of the action, with the solemn calmness   --anadll
variety  expressed in the attitude of the Saviour
sorrow

IthiIsf
is wonderful and unique.  as  travelled in 1843, it
 anybody travelled now
would be absurd to cumber even the pages of an
autobiography with any details of our journey home
through Switzerland and down the Rhine. But our
route and our methods of proceeding are now as
antiquated as the dodo. Of course, it is true that only
the comparatively wealthy classes could post in a com
fortable carriage all over Europe, resting every night
as they pleased at well-appointed inns, and taking
little-frequented roads whenever they led through any
particularly lovely bits of country. Those who could
never afford either the money or the time for such
travelling have gained immensely by the modern
railway system. But the complete desertion of
large areas of most beautiful and interesting country
which has been the result of the new routes which
all traffic is now compelled to follow, and, above all,
the universal spirit of haste which has seized upon
us all, has made travelling infinitely less enjoyable and

Iless improving than it used to be. When was last

Ion the continent under the new conditions, passed
through almost the whole length of Italy, from Brindisi
to Turin, with only a few hours of evening light in the
south, and a few hours of morning light in the north.
Most of the country was traversed in the dark, and
with glimpses only of innumerable most interesting and
picturesque towns, villages, and castles, all of which it
would have been a joy to see. Even stopping at Turin
was unusual, due to indisposition, and the rest of my
party rushed on to Paris. This is the habit of our

216         FOREIGN TRAVEL                             [CHAP. IX

time. The change has been so great and so universal
that some few notes on my journey home fifty -four
years ago may not be without interest to the younger
generation now.

  In posting from Milan to Como, we stopped at Monza
to see the famous iron crown of Lombardy and the
relics of Queen Theodalinda. Monza has an air of

antiquity about it which carries us back to that dim
time when the Western Empire had lately fallen, and
when semi-barbaric kingdoms were being established
on its ruins. No time, perhaps, in European history is
Iso difficult to realize as the sixth and two following
centuries.  was interested in seeing the rude orna

ments which had belonged to one of those few famous
women whose charms were such as to subdue even

barbarian Kings, and to send down a sweet-smelling
savour through many centuries of time.
    WBeellsapgeiont--athfeewpodianyts  on the Lake of  Como--chiefly
at                                     where the lake  bifurcates into

two branches. Such a sheet of water lying among
Isuch fine mountains and under an Italian sun cannot

be otherwise than beautiful. But confess that to
my eye it wanted shadow and variety. The mountains
were destitute of any wood large enough to produce the
least effect. Except where orange-trees and evergreens
rose from gardens near the shores, there was nothing but
scattered and scanty coppices of oak to clothe the
I Inakedness of the rocky walls. The general effect was

somewhat garish, and felt should soon be tired of
it. One object of natural history, however, attracted

my curiosity and attention. At breakfast we were
supplied with a most delicious fish, called the agoni,
and the taste told me at once that it must be a near
relation of the Loch Fyne herring of my home.
Further inquiry then and since has led to a very
interesting conclusion, bearing on the geological history
of Northern Italy. The agoni is a true herring, and
structurally is identical with the shad, a member of
the herring tribe which has the habit of ascending

1843]     COMO -- LUGANO                                      217

rivers from the sea, and returning again by the

way it came. But the agoni now never leaves the
Como Lake, and never can, because the rivers com
municating with the Po do not afford a safe or
steady means of communication with the Adriatic.
aTchceessagtoonitheis,setah. ereIftorhea,s  shut up and debarred from
specific character. It is                   changed its form, but not its
                                            still a shad, but confined to

fresh water, and modified accordingly.
From Como we drove to Lugano, and to this day
that drive remains

II had ever seen.
          in           my                   memory    as the most beautiful
                       has                   all the  verdure which had
          It
so much missed on Como, the road passing under
fine woods of walnut, and of other trees with luxuriant
foliage. The lake, though much smaller than Como,
is far more varied in the character of its shores, its
innumerable bays and promontories having, indeed,
every kind and intricacy of structure, from rocky
headlands to wooded creeks. Vistas, too, are not
wanting of far-off aerial Alps. From Lugano we
again posted across the hills which separate that lake
from the much larger sheet of water that constitutes
the Lago Maggiore. On the tableland over which we
Ipassed   saw, to my   infinite                               that rare sight in
          of Southern   Europe              d--elfiigehldts,  of rich grass like
any part
Iour own pastures at home. Those saw had abundance,
Itoo, of the common purple orchids, all which so delighted

me that longed to stop the carriage and roll in the
delicious herbage of the spring. Our destination was
Magadino, an hotel charmingly situated amid woods
of fine chestnut-trees, then just coming into full leaf.
There is no handsomer tree than the sweet-chestnut,
its bark, its limbs, its foliage, and its flower, being

Iall beautiful. Enchanting as thought that wood,
Iit was with some satisfaction that noticed no indi
vidual tree which quite equalled in size or magnificence
some of the specimens we had at home. But although
it grows splendidly in all sheltered places in Argyllshire,
its fruit never ripens in our climate, whereas, as is well

218               FOREIGN TRAVEL         [chap. IX

known, it forms one of the principal articles of food
in some parts of Italy and Switzerland.
Immediately opposite to Magadino, on the western
side of the lake, the little town of Locarno, the capital
of the Canton of Ticino, was perched on a shelf on the
steep mountain-side, embowered in groves of chestnut,
walnut, and oak. We heard that next day there was
to be a great rifle-shooting match, called a ' tiro,' at
ILocarno, and we determined to go across in a boat
and see the fun.  was at that time rather a good
shot with the rifle, up to the standard of ordinary
Highland sport. We had then no red-deer at Inveraray,
but many roe-deer, and my father had taught me
never to shoot roe with small shot, but always and
I Ionly with the rifle. At the range of about 150 yards
   seldom missed a roe. On the other hand, had
never practised at a target, and it is curious how seldom
the two kinds of shooting are successfully combined.

IThinking vaguely that possibly might have some
Iopportunity of shooting on the Continent, had taken
a new double-barrelled Purdey with us in the carriage.
So this English weapon was taken out of its case, and
we had a lovely row across Lago Maggiore to the
foot of the mountain opposite. The path was very
steep up to the little town, but beautiful. We found
the town full of fine handsome youths from all parts of
the Canton, picturesquely dressed, and armed with very
Ilong-barrelled rifles, slung by a belt round the shoulders.

  do not remember exactly what the bore was, but it
was smaller than that of the ounce rifle of Purdey.
Whatever difference existed between those rifles and
Imy own soon found was all in their favour for target-
Iwork.  cannot now recollect exactly what the range
Iwas, but, to my dismay, found it was greatly longer
Ithan any at which had ever practised. The shooting
I Iwas excellent, and had no chance with them.  was

told that their rifles were all of native make. On our
way back to Magadino we took some of those fine
fellows in our boat, and they were very curious to

                    LAGO MAGGIORE                     219

what   th' seetptrainceta  was of my English      rifle. When
 them                       luigi d' oro,' their  astonishment
Iknow

I told
was unbounded, for suppose that from five to ten
Inapoleons would fully represent the cost of their very
effective weapons.         did feel more than ever the
absurdity of London prices. Although the purely
Italian Canton of Ticino was a late addition to the
Ifamous and very curious old Swiss Confederation, the

men saw at Locarno were typical specimens of that
race of mountain soldiers which on both sides of the
great Alpine chain attained such a high military reputa
tion in medieval Europe, and as stipendiary soldiers were
celebrated for being as faithful as they were brave.
After a short but delicious time spent among the
chestnut-groves of Magadino, we descended to the
southern end of the Lago Maggiore, and crossed the
Alps, by the Simplon Pass, into the upper valley of the
Rhone, and went down that valley to the Leman Lake,
visiting in turn Chillon, Lausanne, and Geneva. The
perfect flatness of that Rhone valley, and the wall-like
sides of mountain which shut it in, left on me a dis

agreeable impression, although one view from the
citadel of Sion, commanding a fine perspective to its
further end, and to some of the great snowy peaks of
the Bernese Oberland, was       singularly beautiful that
                            so  vain to paint it from a
I have several times tried  in
sketch taken at the time. But the wider horizons
enjoyed by Lausanne and Geneva were like a return
to life and light after the oppression of the Alpine
Iapproaches. The whole     country was in the     full gush
                           it the perfection of   a happy
of spring, and thought
land. The lovely rushing of the transparent Rhone,
when it issues from the lake under the bridge at Geneva,
was indeed a wonderful contrast to the milk-white
muddiness of the same river before it entered the
great reservoir where its sediment was deposited.
There is no colour in Nature more beautiful than that
of perfectly transparent water when it is tinted by
greens and blues, or, best of all, by both in changing

220               FOREIGN TRAVEL                                    [chap, rr

and interchanging gleams. I could have gazed all day
Ilong into the Genevan Rhone.

   As was anxious to see Mont Blanc at nearer
Iquarters, we drove up the valley to Chamounix, whence

  visited the Mer de Glace. The first sight of a glacier
    an epoch in the life of                              an admirer
     a student of Nature.                                very much.
Iis

or

It
                             eItvesruyorpnreisewdhomies
     was less beautiful but more awful than had
expected. Its surface, dirtied by detritus from the
rocks under which it passed, was nowhere brilliant.
But the reverberations, like those of thunder, which

rose from its crevasses as fragments were constantly
falling into them, gave one the impression of a constant
and an unknown danger. What astonished me most
at   Chamounix    wasThteheweaaptphaerrenwt aswasnptleonfdide--levnaottiona
in   Mont Blanc.
cloud in the sky ; and the top of the mountain, with its
spotless snow, seemed so near, and was so absolutely
clear,  that  it  appeared to me   as if  aomurouhseoteulp. onItit  would
have               visible object                                   was a
        been   a                   from

signal proof to me how absolutely the effect of
mountain scenery depends, not on measurable height,
but on atmosphere. Ben Cruachan on Loch Awe in
Scotland, which is only 3,600 feet high, had always
seemed to me far loftier and more inaccessible than
IMont Blanc, which was more than four times that

height, appeared to be. could not help remembering

Ihow insignificant it had seemed to me some months

before, when, at the distance of fifty miles, saw it
at Lyons breaking the crimson streaks of sunrise ; and
now, here again at its very feet, the same impression
arose from a totally different cause.
    On leaving Chamounix, we took rather an unusual
route home, determined by my great desire to see my
father's old friend Mademoiselle de la Chaux, who was
still alive, and resided at Yverdun, a small town on

the Lake of Neufchatel. In 1843 it was just forty
years since that clever and excellent woman had
devised and carried into execution the plan of my

1843]              SWITZERLAND --THE RHINE                                 221

fNaothtero'nslyesfcraopme  ftrhoeminttheeresctlutIchheasd  of the First  Consul.
                                                                         in that
                                                            always felt
story,

Iwhich
Ifull of
        bvhuiavtdaocrniettyaa,icncfeoodrucnfert,omaalnscdohilbodefhnoteohvdeoleovnfivcheied--r fraeccweoa--lsleacvtfaeiocrnye
desirous of seeing her. We therefore returned through
Geneva to Lausanne, glad of an opportunity of again
enjoying the extraordinary beauty of that place.
    After          short stay  at  Lausanne we posted to Yverdun,
where          Ia  met with        disappointment. Mademoiselle
                               a

de la Chaux was now very aged and very feeble,
and was confined to bed. She saw Dr. Cumming, but
nevoethr,ingI  would induce the old lady to                see me. How
               did not regret the route we                 took, although
its first inducement had failed. The whole way to the
Rhine at Schaffhausen, through     the                     defiles of the Jura,

was beautiful and very curious.     It                     led through passes
in a series of steep ridges of hill all covered with forest,
and with lovely varieties of clear and rapidtrout streams.
The falls of the Rhine at Schaffhausen, though
certainly beautiful, as every rush of a great mass of
water   must be, did           nIothgarveeatalylwiamysprefossunmde.thaItn  such
things   as waterfalls                                                     one's
Iimagination is very apt to outrun reality. At Basle
   was greatly interested and amused by seeing for the
first time that curious and picturesque bird the stork,
Ithe very partial distribution of which in Europe is one
of the puzzles of ornithology.                             never quite under
stand on what they feed. So large a bird must con

Isume a good deal of something, yet, so far as know,
they cannot catch fish as herons do, nor do they subsist
Ion worms. Frogs, no doubt, would be a suitable

provision, but do not know any place in Europe
where frogs are so abundant as to afford a good living
to even a few storks. However this may be, they are
striking and handsome birds, and their attachment to
man, shown by their feeding and breeding on the tops
of houses in towns and cities, is a habit peculiar to
themselves among all their congeners in the world.

222              FOREIGN TRAVEL                                  [CHAP. IX

   As it was my desire to see a little of Holland, we
            the Rhine by     Isteamer all   the way to
descended      With Holland                delighted and
Rotterdam.                      was both
amused. Its fanatical cleanliness is almost comical.
Continual jets of water are being thrown against the
windows to keep them sparkling and free from dust.
Any step in the stairs in the hotels is as clean as a
dining-table. The streets of  all  the towns,                    theItbaisrgaelsl
along the quays, are as tidy       a new pin.
                              as
very pleasant and very pretty. But what delighted me
most was the great grassy meadows, with beautiful cows
Ibrowsing, udder-deep, in luxuriant grass. The Hague

   thought quite charming, with its mixture of fine
foliage and handsome    Ithoiunsteesre, stpeledamsaentmugacrhdetons,noatincde
fine public buildings.
how the human mind adapts itself to external con
ditions in its instinctive love of ornament and beauty.

In a country so flat that distant prospects are im
possible, where, indeed, the range of sight is limited to
some narrow foreground, the whole idea of ornamenta
tion is bounded by the possibilities of the case, as in
rooms these possibilities limit us everywhere to floors

and walls. In Holland the very ditches of stagnant
water are pressed into the service of decoration. The
water-weeds which accumulate on their surface are
cut away in shapes and patterns which leave spaces of
an intense black divided by shaped compartments of
   vivid green.  HTohlleanedffewcat sisshuonrdtoeur bttheadnlyI
a  Our visit to                                                  pretty.
                                                                 should
                                                                          have
I Iliked, and have often intended to return. But
have never been able to do so, although still the memory
of that strange land, to whose power we and Europe
owe so much, is as green in my mind as her own
delicious meadows and her umbrageous trees.
   The journey and changes of scene and air had acted
Imost beneficially on my always rather delicate health,

but the doctors strongly advised that should go
abroad again the following winter.

                CHAPTER X

                1843

LIFE BQUUIENRSGTIHOKN--ISN--VTIYSRITVEI--STIOTEATTRROLEYNMTHUIANLMLT--ERLEESCTTURINES  ECONOMIC
                                                                                       AT EDIN

IOn my return to England,  spent some weeks in
ILondon, and during the season of 1843 was a frequent
Iguest at Stafford House, where was always received
with the greatest kindness by the Duchess of Suther
       Iwhhaod  had, indeed, corresponded with me ever
land,           met her and her daughter, Lady Elizabeth,
since
at Taymouth the previous year. The enthusiasm of
the Duchess in every great cause, and the responsive
ness of her emotions to any generous aspiration added
to the charm of her manner, and the words ' high

Inature amorous of good ' are those which always occur

to me when recall her brilliant personality. The
society which the Duchess gathered round her included
a large and miscellaneous contingent from the ranks of
literature, of science, and especially the rising section
of philanthropists in politics, of which Lord Ashley,
afterwards Lord Shaftesbury, was the most remark
able and the most intimate representative. Lord
Ashley was a tall man, with a well-marked and power
ful face, but with a strong cast of care and melancholy
in the expression. He was then in the height of his
noble struggle on behalf of factory legislation for
IwoImwenasanmducchhildartetrna.cted by the Duke of Sutherland,

whom now met for the first time, and who was
then an elderly man with grey hair, and not in

                223

224             LIFE IN KINTYRE                           [chap. X

very strong health ; but the great amiability and
refinement of his character was apparent in his face
and in the dignified courtesy of his manner. Never
      there                     specimen of what the      French
was   ' tres  a more perfect        The infinite charm    of that
call          grand seigneur.'

Iold-fashioned manner has almost disappeared from
among us.       see it yet occasionally, but always and
only among the older men of my acquaintance.
   After        weeks in town, finding                    that life   in
London    some  reading rather difficult,              I    turned   my
          made
steps northward, to spend the summer and autumn in
IKintyre and at Inveraray. Without abandoning mis

cellaneous reading, followed the wise advice of my
tutor, Howson, to give special attention to modern
history and philosophy. The famous and charming
dissertation by Dugald Stewart interested me im
maI nsedonoshnealyfdo, uganrsdeadtthidnaattthIuerhaawldodraeklsiggrheotaftinSliikrainbWgstirlflaoiacrtmmtheHotauapgmhhyitls.tiocns,.I
have ever since pursued it with unabated interest, and
have found the training it      afIftordiss  of immense value in
                                             true indeed, in my
reasoning of every kind.
opinion, that the various schools of philosophy which
have appeared in the world have done little or nothing
to solve the ultimate problems with which they deal.
But, at least to a large extent, they have exposed each
other's fallacies ; and as the assumptions on which all
opinion and all common reasoning rest are really more
or less of a purely metaphysical nature, there has been
a result of the greatest service. Philosophy, therefore,
                '

                       a

                                if,

                                                    a
is a study which pays well, indeed, we take care not
to become the mere disciples of any one master, and
keep our eyes wide open to the weaknesses or failures
of every system. Absence from colleges and Uni
versities was undoubtedly a safeguard against the
power of mere fashionable schools of thought. Inde
pendent and solitary study, with abundant time for
reflection, and no exam.' to pass, undoubtedly facili
tated and encouraged cautious and wide eclecticism.

1843]            THE BIRDS OF KINTYRE              225

But, above all, my love of Nature, in which difficult and
far-reaching problems are perpetually suggested, to
gether with those early habits of attentive observa
tion and of close reasoning on the explanation of even
familiar facts,  which had been the effect of  my father's
silent teaching  -- these influences combined  to keep my
metaphysics in the place of an invaluable servant, and
to prevent them from becoming a dangerous master.
The Scottish school of philosophy had the honourable
uraennpdduettrahteitohrenatisofgnrtoeetaahtcinhnginagmliketheeoNuparhtiuloorwseon--phhiynucmoluafdncionmgn,amtooufnre-cso--eunrsasene,d,
a constant living with its mysterious facts, for inspiring
us with a wholesome contempt for the verbal fallacies
and deceptive formulae which are common in all meta

physical systems.
One of my reasons for delighting in the district of
Kintyre was the richness of its natural scenery, in
aspects which were fresh to me. Its oceanic bird
fauna was a perpetual source of pleasure, and in par
ticular the familiar terms on which one entered there
into one of the most curious and conspicuous examples

Iof the laws governing the power of flight. In the upper

reaches of the Firth of Clyde do not recollect having
ever seen a gannet or solan-goose. But all round the
shores of Kintyre there were hundreds of those splendid
birds, exhibiting their wonderful performances at all
hours of the day. There are many methods of catching
fish practised by aquatic birds. Most of those that
really live on fish dive for their prey and pursue it under
water. The solitary heron waits patiently till unwary
fish approach within striking distance, or he stalks
them stealthily in the shallows. But the gannet has

a mode of fishing which is absolutely its own. It flaps

slowly over the sea, and when it sees, in the clear green,
a fish within a certain distance of the surface, it stops
its way, and throws the axis of its body into the per
pendicular ; allowing its whole weight to act, it plunges
into the sea from such a height, and with such force,
vol. i.
                                               15

22G                LIFE IN KINTYRE                                       [chap. X

that it remains long out of sight, from the depth to
which it has descended below the surface. Foam is
dashed up by the concussion, and the noise of the blow
can be heard sometimes, on a calm day, a long way off.
We are all apt to be very stupid in not seeing the
couf rNioautsurep.roblIetmhsadinvnooltvethdeninoctchuerrfeadmtioliamr epthoenwoomnednear
how any animal frame, more especially the usually
delicate frame of a bird, could withstand without
injury the constant repetition of such shocks all day
long in the procuring of food ; nor did it occur to me
that this particular bird must be somehow specially
Iadapted for and defended in the operation.                              had
Ionly noted other peculiarities, which were great.
Inhaardronwotewdintghsa--t, oanltlhyoucgohmpaevnesraytehdeafvoyr  bird,  it had very
                                                                    by   their great
             had noted that the gannet never attempts
length.
to hover, like the kestrel or the kingfisher or the hum
ming-bird ; that it never soars, as gulls do, and never
interrupts the flapping of its wings, except when
strong head-winds enable it to rest a little on their
opposing, but also supporting, currents, or when it
Iskims sideways on shelves or planes of air.

   All this had seen. But the plunging act, with all
that it involved, had not awakened any intelligent
curiosity in my mind, till, in speaking of the bird
Ito a local doctor who was attending my father, a

Dr. Macnab, he asked me if had ever seen the
wonderful apparatus in the gannet which enables it
I Ito strike the sea with such violence, and yet with
safety.  It  told  him       had  neither seen nor heard
of it.       was   then  agreed   that we should procure

a gannet, and that he would act as demonstrator
in the dissection. The result delighted and amazed
me. Dr.      Macnab   showed           the
provided     for the    gannet  m--e  first  special                     apparatus
                                             in an                        elaborate
system of large air-cells in the skin, which were
full of air and constituted a most perfect buffer to
take off the shock of impact; and secondly, more

1843] PRACTICAL POLITICAL ECONOMY 227

ingenious still, in the skin being attached to the body
by highly elastic and finely elongated threads or
filaments, so that when the blow comes, the whole body
of the bird, with all its internal organs, is protected
by a slipping integument which gives way all round
under the pressure, and yields before it, leaving the
nwuaIcstlefwuirsasstodfdutrrhaiwengntrutthoniskthvineisipstectireofnecKcetinptoeyfarcpeeo.tlhitaictaml yecaotntoemntyio--n
not, fortunately for me, by reading any books upon
but by noticing and becoming familiar with a
a in it,

                                                                 it

                                                                                       is
history and with actual transactions, of which                                             the

business of any economic theory to take account.

Just as in the fundamental conceptions suggested by
biological science my convictions had been rooted
more and more in contact with the facts of Nature, so
    those connected with political
were educated in the transactions   oefcloifneo. myIt  my                                ideas
                                                        has                              been
misfortune that none of the professional writers on
political economy have had any practical knowledge
of the management of landed property. Even the
best of them, such as Adam Smith, continually betray
ignorance by the most preposterous theoretical propo

sitions. The Argyll estates in Kintyre were, more than
most others at that time, an object-lesson in all that
concerns the origin of ownership in the soil, the con
ditions essential to the advance of agriculture, and
the laws governing successive occupancy.
Our ancestor the Marquis, as leader of the Covenant
ing party, was of course favourable to that political
party, and gave a hospitable welcome to those who
were persecuted by his enemies in the Low Country.
The blue hills of Kintyre and the blue hills of Ayrshire
were visible from the opposite coasts. Many farmers
migrated to that western refuge which beckoned
them across the sea. There they were settled on the
vacant lands. Then the system of leases was intro
duced, and definite bargains made for definite periods
of time. Then, next again, the owner began to

                                          15--2

228                    VISIT TO MULL           [chap, x

encourage and reward reclamation by further agree
ments as to a sharing of outlay on definite conditions
in respect to a sharing of the return. During my
uncle's  time, thirty  years, the estate       under trust.
         the practice  under which all    was  tenants had
It was                                    the
entered, that at the end of this stipulated term of
lease the farm would be advertised, and competition

would be invited. But it was also the practice,
equally well understood, that an industrious tenant
would be preferred to all outside bidders if he came
even fairly near the estimated value. Under this
system the country rapidly advanced, and its agri
Iculture developed by leaps and bounds. Still, in the

early forties, when used to live in Kintyre, the old-
fashioned thatched houses and barns and byres were
universal, and my father began for the first time to
build slated and commodious houses for the tenants,

at the beginning of almost all new leases.
The Argyll estates are widely spread over a county
which has a great variety of aspects and of agricultural
Iadaptabilities. Before returning to Inveraray, pre

paratory to my second journey to the Continent, was
anxious to visit an estate in the  Isle   of Mull on which
there was some excellent fishing.         consisted entirely
                                    It
of high mountain land, chiefly, indeed, of one great range
of volcanic rock, with steep narrow glens, and rising to
one fine summit, above 3,000 feet high. To get to
IMull from the southern end of the peninsula of

Kintyre, drove with Howson some sixty miles to
Oban. On our way we went by a road which no one
sees now, since swift steamers take all tourists by sea
to the same destination. But the road was a new one

to me, and full of interest and beauty. In passing by
Ia bridge over a small stream, deeply and darkly dyed

by peat, saw to my surprise and delight the sudden
flash of an intense blue-green light shine out from the
alder-bushes which lined the bank, and glide up the
bed of the stream, in brilliant contrast with the rich
brown water, which it illuminated for a moment as it

              THE BEAUTIES OF MULL             229

Ipassed. ' A kingfisher !' shouted to Howson, with
an excitement and surprise which he did not quite

Iunderstand. But it was the first kingfisher had ever
seen in Scotland. The transports of a naturalist on

seeing a new or a rare species are always unintelligible
Ito the heathen world.

   The short visit now paid to Mull was accompanied
Iwith some amusing incidents, and left some permanent
impressions.  had circumnavigated the island in
Ivisiting Tiree and Iona with my father, several years

before, and had been struck by the fine precipices
of basaltic rock which are presented by its southern
coast. But, from the sea, all the northern and
Iwestern shores have little that is striking.
                                               now

found, however, that in the centre of the island,
and at the northern foot of its loftiest mountain, Ben

IMore, there is some scenery of great and very peculiar
beauty.       found, too, to my satisfaction, that a large
part of this scenery belonged to our family estate,
notwithstanding the great sales which had been made
by my extravagant uncle. As, however, there was no
            available for me  at the moment   on our own lands,
hI owuasse  very hospitably   entertained by  two neighbouring

proprietors. One of these was a gentleman of the name
of Macquarrie, whose estate marched with the Argyll
property along the banks of a beautiful lake, and one
bank of a charming little river, between the lake and
the sea. The lake, Loch Baa, was in those days an
angler's paradise. Sea-trout of silver whiteness rose
Ialmost at every cast, and with a light fly-rod gave quite

ideal sport. After a happy day had a pleasant
dinner. Even the remotest homes of Highland gentle
men may belong to those whose names are known in
the farthest dominions of the Crown. Macquarrie's
father had been Governor of New South Wales, and
the Macquarrie River recalls his rule. My host himself
had been Colonel of the Scots Greys, and was popular
in that famous regiment.
The afternoon of the following day was one which

230      VISIT TO MULL                               [CHAP. X

I have remembered ever since with infinite pleasure.
The shores of Loch Baa are bordered by steep moun
tains, a great part of the lower slopes being clothed
Iwith old natural wood of birch, alder, and hazel.

  was instructed to follow a rough, stony bridle-track,
which traversed the wood till it emerged upon the
open moor at a point close to the march between
Ithe Glenforsa and the Argyll estates. At this point
    was  to await the result of  Ia  drive from the  lower
end of   the lake. The deer,         was told, were  likely

Ito come out of the wood below me. Choosing a

knoll which commanded a clear view all round, sat
Idown and waited. The situation was magnificent.

About 300 feet below, looked down on the shining
waters of the lake, over the tops of feathery birch.
On the opposite side of the lake, Ben More rose in steep
and rocky slopes to a long, craggy summit, 3,168 feet
high, with precipices along which the light clouds of a
fine September day were passing on and off. Immedi
ately in front, the supporting masses of mountain were

cleft by a long deep glen of a peculiar structure. At
the farther end it was blocked by a steep ridge, rising
into a pyramidal peak of bare rock, which had
wasted under atmospheric action into a great cone
of shingle, through which the lines of a horizontal
bedding were distinctly indicated here and there. The
sides of the glen were exceedingly steep, though not,
except at one place, actually precipitous. The lines
of little torrents marked the curvature with such
curious regularity and distinctness, that one might
imagine one's self looking at the framework of some
gigantic ship in progress of construction upon the
stocks. Some large patches and many smaller clumps
of natural birch-wood marked and variegated the
sweeping surfaces, and near the end of the glen, where
it opened on the lake, there were masses of the same
wild foliage, with interspaces of luxuriant bracken.
The stream, which lay hidden in its own deep cutting
in the floor of the glen, had been carrying down sand

1843]             A DEER DRIVE ON BEN MORE  231

and gravel sufficiently long to produce a large and
wide delta, which spread out like a fan into the bed of
the lake, and was covered with fine pasture, amid
masses of tufted fern. To my left, another far wider
glen opened on the head of the loch, walled in by a
complete amphitheatre of hills, all equally steep, but
allItclwotahseda  with fine green grass to the very tops.
                  magnificent and very peculiar landscape  in

Imountain scenery, and, as the beaters were to begin at

a point about two miles off, had time to enjoy all
the emotions which were natural to me at that time

and in such a place. In a condition of health unusually
good for me, and in high spirits, that long wait on
the solitary mountain-side, with not a creature near
me, and not a human habitation except one shepherd's
cottage in sight, with atmospheric effects all round
me which seemed to symbolize at once the joy and
the awfulness of life, caused me to fall into delight
ful reveries. They were full of a vague sense and
anticipation of happy years to come, during which
that lake, those woods, and those noble mountain
peaks and ridges, were to be a peaceful retreat from

Ithe contests and unrestfulness of political life. will
I Inot say that had any actual presentiment, for
recollect well feeling, too, our ignorance of the future,
Iand the precariousness of building castles in the air.

     did not then know the full interest of the scene
before me in a geological point of view, and was
rather disposed to associate the grand buttressed
masses of Ben More with the ideas of solidity and
persistence which led the Psalmist to speak of the
' everlasting hills,' and even to make them the image
of the Divine protection : ' As the hills stand around
IJerusalem, so standeth the Lord round about His
people.' Little did  then think that the great
mountain mass in front of me, with an atmosphere
of elevation about it far greater than that which
envelops Mont Blanc, was a birth, comparatively
speaking, of yesterday in geological time, and that

232                    VISIT TO MULL                            [chap, x

I should myself be the discoverer of fossil remains,
not far away, which would determine the very recent
period at which Ben More and all its subsidiary ranges
were nothing but melted and boiling matter, seeth
        underneath the surface of a world now vanished
--inga  world of beautiful lands and forests and rivers,
Iall of which
               hOafvethisbeeIn             utterly obliterated  and
overwhelmed.                             knew nothing then.      On
                                                     to other   lessons from
the     other  hand,       was           Italihvaed   beauties  unknown in
the     scene  before  me.

any of the loveliest landscapes which had lately
attracted me in the South of Europe. One of these
was its extraordinary verdure. Except where the
surfaces broke into actual precipices or were bare rock,
they were all covered with the richest vegetation of
various kinds of grass. The lower slopes of Ben More,
egvreeenn.theIsttewepaesstn, oftilleind  the eye with a dark and luscious
                                         vain that the winds from the
Atlantic were attracted to its lofty crests, and poured
out upon these their torrents of tepid rain. The
immense compensations of a wet climate were impressed
upon me as they had never been before. And these
included, moreover, such masses and depths of shadow,
and such richness of contrasted lights, as were impossible
in the brilliant but somewhat garish monotony of the
Mediterranean and of the Italian lakes.
  IWhilst drinking in all the beauty of this scene, and

resting in the passive enjoyment of it, became suddenly
conscious of some movement in the air which could not
be called a sound. There was nothing to be seen in

Ithe direction in which had been told to look, but on
Iturning round saw that a fine stag had ' broken

cover ' at an unexpected place, and was passing on the
face of the hill above me in that curious fast-trotting
Iamble which is so characteristic of the species. Before
   could get my rifle to bear upon him he had plunged
Iinto the deep little ravine which was the boundary

of the two estates; but saw that he must reappear
on the other side, unless he took up the course of the

1843] WORDSWORTH AND TENNYSON                                              233

stream. Accordingly, in another moment he emerged
from the brushwood cover which clothed the banks,
and took a line straight ahead. The farther brow of
Ithe hill was so close that saw he would be out of my
Isight in a few strides.         therefore fired just as he

was going out of sight, and dropped him quite dead
with a ball through his heart.

  I IISo ended one of the happiest days had ever spent

in my life. Of its happiness fear can give no
definite account. The scenery had, no doubt, a good
deal to do with it, since what we call Nature has
Ialways had a   tghoraef at ttdhaeefyfepcaatnst,uinptboeunrnt amol ef l.atnhdBesucftauptteuhr--eer--neoitwnatoosf

present to me
the present or
which gazed with the joy of great hopes, and aspira
tions more enchanting even than the beautiful combi
nations of water and woods and mountains which

Iwere beneath me, and around me, and above me.
knew my Wordsworth well in those days, and a few
special passages came nearer than those of any other
poet to express my intellectual condition :

            ' The power of hills was on thee,
             As was witnessed in thine eye,

              Then when old Helvellyn won thee
             To confess their majesty.

But this expressed only an outward stimulus to
veneration. Other lines of the same great poet, on
the exaltation of sentiment and feeling due to the light
and joy of             seas and  hills, occurred         to       mpyoemtriyndI,
            skies and  Tintern                           all
especially  those on             Abbey. But
I Ikmnyewdefleigllhts--hoartll                                    that day of
                --of uenxtpilr,eisnsilnagtewr hyaetars,  felt on  for the first
                                                            read

time certain lines of him who soon became the sole
master of my poetic fancy. Those lines occur in
Tennyson's lovely poem of ' The Gardener's Daughter,'
Iwhich had been already published, though                             did   not
                                                                  It   is  one,
know it. There is a landscape there, too.
however, absolutely different from that which was the

234       LECTURES AT EDINBURGH                        [chap. X

          my imaginings in Mull.                     But this--to
           must have held in his
                                                   own heart and
Imfraemneewwo--rkpooeft
imagination a vision the close counterpart of all felt,
and he has expressed it in words of incomparable

beauty :                       ' A crowd of hopes

     That sought to sow themselves like winged seeds,

     Born out of everything I heard and saw,

     Fluttered about my senses and my soul ;

     And vague desires, like fitful blasts of balm

          To one that travels quickly, made the air

          Of life delicious.'

Such moments of present and of anticipated joy do
not occur often in human life. But when they do they
Iare never to be forgotten.

   On my return to Inveraray, spent some two months
in the usual home-life there, with a fair amount of
time devoted to reading, both in English and in French.
The charming book on Greece by Dr. (afterwards
Bishop) Wordsworth             gave me      a  agnrdeapthidloessoirpehyto--tsheee
the capital of ancient          literature
Icity of Athens ; and it was finally arranged that
should go there by as direct a route as possible,
and then return to Rome, where my father had deter
Imined to

October,
          Igowealnsto  for     the winter.     Accordingly, late in
                       to      Edinburgh,             joined my
                                               where
old friend the doctor, who, with Howson, was again

Ito constitute my escort. In passing through Edin

burgh, had a curiosity to hear two celebrated
men who were Professors in the University, and who,
though in advanced age,                     still lecturing. These
were Professor Wilson,         were         famous ' Christ opher
                                the
North,' poet and essayist, and Sir William Hamilton,
the metaphysician. Wilson's reputation was not won
in the fields of philosophy of any kind, least of all in
that of morals. He was a poet, a rhapsodist, a
brilliant essayist, a titanic man in conversation over
wine, the life and soul of Blackwood's Magazine,

1843]  FAMOUS EDINBURGH PROFESSORS        235

which had once thrown terror and astonishment
Iinto the literary society of Edinburgh.
                                          confess
I knew him best as the author of one of the most
beautiful sonnets in the English language, ' A cloud
lay cradled near the setting sun.' In the Chair of
Moral Philosophy he was singularly out of place.

IStill, he was a Hon, and wished to see and hear him.
IWhen the doctor and entered the lecture-room it was
Inearly empty ;  don' t think there were a dozen
students. We, unfortunately, sat down on the bench
nearest the Professor's chair, and immediately in front

of it. Presently Wilson came in with a rush. A more
singular-looking being it is impossible to imagine.
The head was enormous, like the busts of Jupiter.
The hair was long, hanging in dishevelled masses upon
the collar of his coat. A wild force was still seated in
his expression. He sat down with a plump, and
instantly began his lecture with these words, uttered
with vehemence    in a deep and still
                 must not get drunk.'  powerful voice,
' Gentlemen, ye                        The grotesque-
ness of this exordium on the elements of moral
philosophy, coupled with the grotesqueness of the man,
completely upset the doctor's gravity. His con
vulsive efforts to suppress his laughter in the very
face of the Professor were irresistibly infectious, and
we both spent an hour in great agony, for there was
nothing in what followed to take off the first impression.
On the following day we went to hear and to see a
very different man, and with a very different result.
Sir William Hamilton had then suffered a slight para
lytic stroke, and his gait on entering the class-room
iandnicoabtleedonseom--efuflel eobflenceaslms.nesBs,utdihgisnitcyo,unatnednainncteellewcats.
His nose was slightly aquiline, his mouth had thin lips,
and his eyes were dark and piercing.

  IBefore my departure for my second winter abroad
paid a visit to my dear old friends Lord and Lady
Wemyss, who, with their daughters Lady Jane and
Lady Caroline Charteris, were at Gosford. From

236  VISIT TO TRENTHAM             [chap, x

IGosford went to Trentham, having received a cordial
invitation from the   IDleufkteEnagnldanDdu. cheIsfsouonfdSTurtehnetrhlaanmd
to visit them before
very different to my idea of the ' stately homes of
England,' built as it is in the style of an Italian villa,
with a campanile clock-tower. The view from it is
beautiful indeed, but with a kind of beauty new to
me, except in so far as it reminded me of some of the
features in the scenery near Rome or around Verona.
IThe Duke's brother, Lord Francis Egerton, afterwards

Earl of Ellesmere, arrived the same day as did, full of
a great political event. This was the announcement of
the determination of the Government of Sir Robert
Peel to institute a State prosecution against the great
Irish agitator, Daniel O'Connell.
Lord Francis Egerton, who did not in the least
resemble his brother the Duke, was a man who

immediately arrested and attracted my attention.
He was considerably above the middle height, with
a stoop. His face was very handsome, with a
broad, fine forehead, long dark hair, and eyes of
the darkest hazel. There was a curious droop in
the attitude of his head, as if he were habitually
looking on the ground, and as if it required a slight
effort to raise his eyes to the horizontal. He gave me
the impression of being a shy man, and there was about
Ihim an air of pensive gravity which was peculiar, and
to me very interesting.  found that we had at least
one bond of sympathy between us, as Lord Francis
was a strong supporter of the Government. The story
of the events which had led to Lord Francis becoming
the heir of the last Duke of Bridgewater touches
curiously on the margin of my own family history.
The Duke of Bridgewater had been a great admirer of
my beautiful grandmother, Elizabeth Gunning, and
became engaged to her when she was left a young
widow by the death of the Duke of Hamilton. The
engagement was broken off, and he felt this disappoint
ment so much that he never married, but betook him

1843]      THE DUKE OF BRIDGEWATER         237

inself to pursuits which have made his name famous
     the history of English enterprise. He became the
father of inland navigation in Great Britain. Having
large landed and mineral property near Manchester, he
conceived  the great design of connecting  that city
           Mersey by a navigable canal.     Through
with the
hamneadnpyautyrsaeuagerrdseaotftdphieifsrfiscoduneltasylig, snabcorwtifhiicteeh.nguinnItetierurilnitniggmaapnteedrslyfeivnbeaerncacanimcaele,
a triumphant success. Besides the increased value of
his own minerals, the direct net revenue which was
eventually realized amounted to between £80,000 and
£100,000 a year. Dying without direct descendants,
he left all his fortune to his nearest relation, the Marquis
of Stafford, afterwards created the first Duke of
Sutherland, with the provision that his estates should
descend to the second son of the Marquis, who was to
I Iinherit under the name of Egerton. This was Lord

Francis Egerton, of whom have spoken, and with
whom was afterwards to be connected by marriage.

                                CHAPTER XI

                                1843-44

VOYAGE TO GREECE -- WINTER                     --INVIRSOITMET--O  RETURN   TO
       ENGLAND BY THE RHINE                                         FIELD  OF

WATERLOO

A few days after leaving Trentham, my party was
reunited at Southampton, where Dr. Gumming, How-
Ison, and myself embarked on board the steamer Lady
Mary Wood for Lisbon, Gibraltar, and Malta.                       have
often since wondered how my father ever consented to
my taking that route at a season of the year so exposed
Ito equinoctial storms. To my family at least, my life
was then a valuable one.                       was an only son, and in
the event of my death the titles and estates would
have gone to a very distant heir, whose succession
would not, certainly, have been desirable. But my
father left all arrangements to the doctor, who
was an old and experienced traveller, and youths
at my time of life think little of such risks. As
it actually happened, we did very nearly come to
grief. The Lady Mary Wood was what would now
be called a small paddle-steamer, which had been
employed in the English coasting trade. We had some
pleasant passengers, among whom was one whose
iamllmaetntseentisotna.tureI,t            inches, inevitably attracted
                                6 feet 7  out that this giant was no
                                 turned

less a personage than the then celebrated occasional
writer in the Times, whose well-known signature was
' Jacob Omnium.' His real name was Higgins.
  IVery early on the third morning of our voyage,

when near Cape Finisterre, was awakened by the

                                          238

1843] A STORM IN THE BAY OF BISCAY                                            239

uneasy motion of the vessel, by a low continuous roar,
and, above all, by the rapid tramping of feet upon the

Ideck overhead. Jumping out of my berth, dressed

Ias best could, and staggered through the state cabin
to the foot of the deck-companion. But the door
opening on the deck was closed, and an officer of the
ship told me that all passengers must keep below.
IThere was no

the sky over
           need            to ask      the reason  wIhty.was  could see
           the             top of      the door.              a sky of
dirty rags, and the rags were scudding across it at a
rate indicating a strong gale. The captain in so small
a vessel could not do what the great modern liners now
do-- he could not hold on his course, plunging through
the billows, careless whether they broke on his decks

or not. The Lady Mary Wood had no steam-power
for that, and if she had had, and had used it, she would
soon have been overwhelmed. The captain there
fore stopped, and ' lay to,' using just enough steam-
power to keep her bows steady to the seas. We pas
sengers, like rats in a cage, could do nothing but hold
on as best we could to the firm tables in the cabin,

aHnigdgminoss--t tohfauts   were of the  opinion freely expressed by
                           we had been               fools to embark
on such a passage at that                very great
                                         season of   the year. It is
only fair, however, to our vessel to say that, for her
size, she was a good sea-boat, shipping very little water,
and rising over the huge waves like a cork. At one
moment the captain, dressed in canvas overalls, and
dripping with rain and spray, came rushing down the
companion to get a glass of brandy from the steward.
Howson,    who was looking anxious              and dejected, with
childlike  simplicity addressed him,            ' Captain, is there

sannuybd, a'nTgheerre?''sanadgwreaast  at once  met by the well-merited
                                       deal of  fear, sir, but very little
danger.' Some time later in the day, however, the
Icaptain sent down
Icome on deck if
                           a message            tsoeemethethawtavesm. ighItt  now
                           wished to                                          was
Iindeed a sight. But though very awful, did not
think it beautiful. Water under all circumstances

240    VOYAGE TO GREECE                         [CHAP. XI

reflects so much of the sky above it that a dirty sky
makes dirty waves, and deprives the ocean of its
lovely colouring. The sense of tremendous power was
impressive, and the cockleshell size of our little vessel
as it fell into the trough of the waves, and was lifted
Iagain upon their crests, added greatly but unpleasantly
to that impressiveness.       recollected my father saying
that the highest oceanic waves did not rise more than
15 feet above the level ; therefore, allowing the same
range to the trough, the aggregate height from bottom

of trough to top of crest never exceeded 30 feet. In
Ithe presence of the Bay of Biscay waves, this seemed

incredible to me, especially when saw some vessels
with tall masts completely concealed by an advancing

wave.
After the discomforting intimation from one of the
officers that such gales at that time of year very
often lasted for three days, it was a comfort to feel,
after some thirty hours, that this one was sensibly
abating, and to hear that the captain thought he
might very soon be able to continue his course. Sud
denly the sun broke and the ocean waters resumed
their glory. The waves had thin crests of transparent
green, and they were soon roaring under our counter
as we turned our head and ran before them.       Some
                                                ' poop '
times they looked as if they would certainly
us, but always just at the right moment they sank

beneath us in lines of joyous foam. In a very few
hours more we were steaming up the fine arm of the
sea which runs up to the Spanish town and harbour of
Vigo, under hills bare indeed, but bathed in sunlight,
and with shining houses under a genuine Southern sky.
There cannot be a more sudden or joyous transition
than to pass from England in November to any part
of Southern Europe, and it was accentuated in our
case by our having passed through such a disagreeable
encounter in the Bay of Biscay. Verdure indeed is
lost, for there is really no  verdure   in the                  land
scapes of the South ; but     light is          --gelnigehratl  and a
                                        gained

1843]                    LISBON                 241

brilliancy of sunshine which is very delicious to the
eye and very exhilarating to the spirits.
From Vigo a good night's passage carried us to the
Tagus, and in the forenoon we were steaming under the
shining houses and palaces of Lisbon. There is no city
in Europe, or perhaps in the world, which stands on
a nobler site. Built on a steep slope overlooking a
fine river, and having a view over a great extent of
prosperous country to the south and east, Lisbon holds

Ia position as beautiful as it is commanding. But
Isaw nothing in the town which should ever care to
Isee again. We drove to Cintra, with the famed beauty
of which  was bitterly disappointed. No doubt

groups of cork and ilex growing out of fantastic rocks
must be always beautiful. But the whole thing is on
such a small scale, and the country to the north,
over which the hills of Cintra look, is so utterly un
attractive, and even hideous, that all beauty is limited
to a narrow foreground. Nevertheless, there is one
supreme interest  in     that landscape,    which made me
                  if  I   could not take     my eyes away.
gaze upon it as
Across that strip of bare country, between a low line
of hills to the east, and the shore-line of the Atlantic

on the west, all as brown and monotonous as a ploughed
field, across it from right to left, from hills to seashore,
there once ran the ever-famous lines of Torres Vedras.
Utopthtoemth,embutronlloedfutrhtehetird--e
                                            of Napoleonic conquest : up
                                            not an inch beyond. From
that barrier it recoiled, and before the great captain who
designed those lines, who held them, and who issued from
them when he saw the time was come, the tide was rolled

back by successive victories of unequalled strategy
and triumphant perseverance. There is nothing more
difficult for a civilian to realize than some of the great
feats of military genius. Who, looking down from the
hills of Cintra upon that wide expanse of dull and
otherwise uninteresting country, could imagine that, by
lines of hasty and temporary fortification drawn across
it between the Upper Tagus and the coast, England
vol. i.
                                            16

242  VOYAGE TO GREECE                        [chap, xj

was enabled to secure her naval base for military opera
Itions which were the first to shake the conqueror of

Europe and to prepare his downfall ? could hardly

Ido so. Yet, knowing the facts, drank in the view
Ias well as could, and to this day it is one of the land
scapes most indelibly impressed upon my memory.
Resuming our voyage, we proceeded to Cadiz, and
transhipping our luggage to a small coasting steamer,
we ascended the Guadalquivir to Seville. On the great

Iplains on either side of the river saw, at a distance,
Iobjects which, from their size and colour, knew must
be the great bustard, a bird which our civilization has
long banished from England, but which still abounds
in the vast unenclosed lands which occupy a great part
Iof the Peninsula.
                                      The cathedral is, I
   With Seville was delighted.
think, by far the noblest specimen of Gothic archi
tecture in the world, with its double aisles of majestic
clustered columns, and its vast interchanging spaces

Iof shadow and of light. For the famous palace of the

Moors, the Alcazar of Seville, could not get up any

enthusiasm, although it possesses some prominent
features of undoubted beauty, and its absolute novelty,
as compared with any other building out of Spain, is
remarkable. The great cathedral was indeed a glorious
contrast. No two structures in one city could be
more strikingly typical  of  the  two races   which
contended for mastery    in  the  South of   Europe  --onthcee

magnificent strength, solemnity, and indefinite sug-
gestiveness of the Christian church, and the graceful
but flimsy pillars, and the rich but shallow repetitions
of superficial surface ornament on the walls of the
Moslem palace. Mere arabesque patterns, however
ingeniously intricate, however pretty in form, and how
ever set off by delicate and harmonious tinting, are as
empty of meaning as they are destitute of substance.

At the best they give only a kind of mindless and
voluptuous pleasure to the eye, with nothing to incite
the intellect or to rouse the heart.

1843] SEVILLE-- GIBRALTAR 243

Only one other feature was beautiful in Seville. The
vista down each street is not only commonplace, but
ugly. Windowless walls, uniform in height and desti
tute of any ornament, produce a dull effect. Yet every
street is full of beauty to those who walk down it and
look into the doorways as they pass. Those doorways
are all wide-open arches, through which the eye is led
into lovely interior courts, with flashing fountains and
beautiful verdure -- oleanders, bananas, and other
plants of cool and pleasant leaves. Each court is en
closed from the street only by an iron grille or gateway,
of the most delicate and graceful tracery ; no two of
these are alike. Hammered ironwork seems to have
been an art native to Seville, on which an infinite

richness of fancy found infinite variety of treatment.
Coolness is, of course, the object of this arrangement,
which descended from the habits of the Moors, as,
indeed, of all Eastern peoples ; for in Andalusia they
had a fierce sun to deal with, at least in summer, and
on the sweltering plains of the Guadalquivir.
   Descending that river again, we caught the steamer
at Cadiz, and proceeded to Gibraltar. Places of which
Ione has heard much are always more or less prefigured

in imagination. But none which have seen has
ever taken me so entirely by surprise as Gibraltar.
Its familiar appellation of ' the Rock ' had led me to
imagine some glorified edition of hill-forts, such, on a
smaller scale, as Dumbarton, or Stirling, or Edinburgh,
Ior Ehrenbreitstein. Whereas, on entering that famous

bay, saw before me a fine mountain, ending in an
abrupt precipice to the north, but sloping rapidly at
the southern end into a long low point. The upper
edges and sides are precipitously steep, but they
slope gradually through gardens of orange-groves
and other foliage  Ittoisaincoanmsiadgenraifbicleenttopwons,itfioronn, teadsobrty oaf
forest of masts.
advanced guard of the European Continent, facing the
narrow entrance of the Mediterranean and the coast
of Africa.

                   16--2

244       VOYAGE TO GREECE                       [chap, xi

A short run across the Straits to Tangiers took me
in a moment, as it were, from the western to the
eastern world. On landing at Tangiers, all was abso
lutely new. Camels being loaded or lying on the quay ;
slave-girls from the interior, with true negro features,
with lithe figures and skins shining in the sun with a
curious lustre like that of black satin ; fine-looking
turbaned Moslems sitting under a gateway at the
receipt of custom ; narrow Oriental streets with open
shop-fronts, and cross-legged owners looking imper-
turbably uninterested whether they had customers or
not. Luncheon with our well-known Consul, Mr.
Drummond Hay, and a ride into the country, com
pleted my short visit to Africa. The country seemed
to me largely waste, covered with a low evergreen
scrub, with intervals of pasture in which the ploughing
noses of wild boars had left conspicuous marks.
There was one other feature of the landscape
between Tangiers and Gibraltar which interested and
surprised me much, and that was the comparative
nearness and the grandeur of the Atlas range of
mountains. Whatever of African desert might lie
behind that great barrier to the South, it was evident
that there was a wide belt of glorious country between
the Atlas and the Mediterranean coast, which, now
under the barbarous and desolating government of
the Mohammedan Sultan of Morocco, might have been
the home of a rich and happy population. One cannot
help speculating in this, as in many other cases, how
different the course of European-African history might
have been if Rome had never conquered Carthage,
and if a Semitic race, full of genius, of enterprise, and
of the spirit of commerce, had been allowed to develop
a peculiar but a splendid civilization all along the
northern shores of the African Continent.
                        Gibraltar to Malta was uneventful,
anOd uIr  passage from  renew my acquaintance with the
          was glad to
magnificent palaces of the old Knights, as well as to
enjoy the hospitality of the new Governor, General the

1843]          FIRST VIEW OF GREECE                     245

Hon. Sir Patrick Stewart, who was an uncle of Lord
Blantyre. He invited me to stay with him in the
charming villa of San Antonio, embowered in fine

orange-groves and other lovely evergreens. In com
pany with      his bevy of      handsome and charming
daughters,  I  rode all over   the island to notable spots
of interest, among others to St. Paul's Bay, at which a
faithful tradition has fixed the scene of the Apostolic
shipwreck. After a few days thus agreeably spent, we
IproIcweeadsebdittoenrloyudr isjoauprpnoeiynteedaswtwhaernd.my eyes first lighted
upon Greece.   had been full of expectation. In
leaving Malta we had seen, far off, the magnificent
white cone of Mount Etna breaking a cloudless sky to
the north. We had passed the southern capes of
Italy so distantly that the aerial colours of the
Mediterranean had space to cover all local defects,
and the faint tints of pink and blue could be interpreted
by all that the memory or the imagination might hold
of that fair land. But when we found ourselves close
to the southern points of the Morea, it seemed
to me that barrenness was not the word to des
Icribe the aspect of those promontories.  did not
see a green thing on which a goat might live. Utter

Inakedness and desolation was the character of all
saw, and the hills were not even fine in form or grand
in size. Burnt by the sun and blasted by the wind,
they seemed to me the very abomination of desolation.
The island of Syra, at which we stopped, was only a
little better, with a considerable town built upon a
conical hill, and covering it from base to crown. On
Ilanding, however,              immediately struck by   the
                      --waats  least, of the men. With  one
beauty of the people
Iman who was standing on the quay was so impressed
Ithat find an elaborate description of him in my
journal, with the conclusion that he might have
personated ideally any one of the greatest heroes of
the Greek race. As we passed up the gulf which
separates Attica from the Morea, and as we passed

246                GREECE                                        [chap. XI

ttehme pClaep, eI  of Sunium, with the   remains of its columnar
                   was glad to see that  the elements of a really
beautiful landscape were opening up before us, an
impression fully confirmed when at last we anchored
in the Piraeus. The drive through the plain to Athens
interested me much from its extensive olive-groves.

But it was not until we reached Athens, and went out
otoahnfebtrtheeheaeuisstbyintaeolcttbhohunainrytgstcoeufulrspiteoohuneisnlyhmEoeut.seruol,iptIesthcaaitthltsletihhtleeisastisosntirgnyulg.ikluaelra,Irittb.beiescaaItnuusotiyest

majestic or imperial. There is nothing about it that
suggests the centre of a wide dominion, or even of a
considerable State. The plain that lies below it, and
separates the range of Parnes on the west from that
of Hymettus on the east, is but a limited area, and has
nothing of the vastness of the Campagna of Rome. The
mountains are lovely, but not majestic, and are so near
Ias to give a sense of limitation to the whole scene.
       had never realized what a very small country
Ibelonged to the Athenian republic in its most glorious

days, until saw the close contiguity of the hills of
the Peloponnesus, all of them belonging to rival and
often antagonistic States. Of course, all the more
illustrious and wonderful becomes the metropolitan
rank which Athens attained in the history of the
human intellect, so that in literature, philosophy, and
art it became a veritable capital of the world. Its
situation          ddoimdininiodnee--dnlaemndelyit,senlaf vtaol  one great source of
political                                                        power. Among the
most beautiful features in the landscape are the far-
penetrating and complicated lines of the immortal
Gulf of Salamis. Close at hand appears the harbour
of the Piraeus, which was an admirable haven for such
ships as the ancient triremes. Then, above and
beyond this memorable inlet, yet at no great distance,
rises out of the sea the whole range of the northern
coast of the Morea. The meeting of the sea and land
along varied and complicated shores, with bays and

1843]             ATHENS -- ELEUSIS  247

capes and islands near enough to be distinguishable
from one unvaried line, must always be beautiful, and
this is one special feature in the view from Athens.
The comparative smallness of the scale of the whole
scene, especially when mentally contrasted with the
crowded and memorable events with which it is
inseparably associated, comes upon one with an
absorbing wonder. From the more distant promon
tories of Sparta and the mountains above the
mysterious Mycenae in the south, to the dark hill
which was the capital of Corinth on the west, the
whole horizon of the Peloponnesus is comprehended
within a mere turning of the eye. So much respect
ing the view from Athens ; the view of Athens, when
standing on the plain below, is not less striking and
peculiar. The rocky hill of the Acropolis is just high
enough to lift its majestic temple of the Parthenon
above every other object in the landscape near it,
whilst not too high to dwarf one of the greatest
triumphs of human art under the dominance of any
oppressive mountain. Hymettus is far enough away
to be bathed always in the aerial hues of that sunny
climate, and to afford an atmospheric background
of blues and purples to set off the rich golden yellows
which time brings out on the white marble of the
majestic columns. When any rays of the setting sun
strike upon the Parthenon, and when Hymettus
behind is in purple shadows, the effect is lovely beyond
Ithe power of painting to express.

  At no period of my life was strong enough to stand
the fatigues and exposure which were inseparable
from such travelling as was alone possible then in the
wilder  parts of                 where generally there were no
roads   and no    inGnrse.eceI,  therefore was content with a
good knowledge of Athens itself, and with such short
excursions from it as could be easily made. We
drove one day to Eleusis, a lovely drive through a
depression in the Parnes range, into another valley
opening on the sea. Above-ground there were no

248          GREECE                                [chap. XI

remains worth seeing of the ancient temples which had
Ibeen connected with the mysteries of Greek worship.

   saw nothing but a miserable village, with some
tpheaansalnivt inwgomcerenatwuhreos.werBeumt oIrewaliskewmelol vrienpgaimd ubmymtiehse
nearer view of the beautiful shores of Salamis, and the
intricate curves in which it winds along the shores of
the Morea, of the Isthmus of Corinth, and of Attica.
On our return drive to Athens, looking eastward, and
with the low sun behind us, we had a magnificent
view of the Acropolis, and of the Parthenon gleaming
Iin golden yellows against the purples of Hymettus.
   Another   excursion took      from  Athens was farther
afield, and  not quite so easy.                    ascend to the
             Mount Pentelicus,     It  Iwaksnetow   that sites of
summit of
                                   as

Ithe highest interest were thence visible, which other

wise should not see. We drove along a tolerable road
Ito the base of the mountain, and then made the best

of our way to the top on foot. In ascending saw
nothing of interest except, high up, the impression
of a wolf's tracks upon the frozen snow, and the old
quarries out of which the famous Pentelic marble had
been taken. These quarries formed a striking object,
from the beautiful colouring of the ancient surfaces of
rock, and from the knowledge that we were looking
at the beds out of which the Parthenon had been
hewn, and all the splendid temples for which Attica
was famous. No wood of any size or beauty, nothing
but a mere scrub of evergreen bushes, clothed even the
lower slopes of the mountain, and near the summit
it was almost absolutely bare. Even in December the
sun was hot upon the southern face by which we
ascended, but when we reached the top we found
ourselves exposed to a strong and piercing wind from
a whole horizon of snowy mountains to the north and
north-east. Undoubtedly the view was splendid, and
one of absorbing historical interest. At our feet was
the narrow border of plain, between the hills and the
sea, which was the site of Marathon. Even the

1843]  MARATHON AND THERMOPYLAE              249

famous mound, said to have been heaped over the dead
after that memorable conflict, was distinctly visible.
The winding shores where the sea interpenetrates
the land along the Gulf of Volo, between the long
island of Eubcea and the mainland of Greece, were
backed by the splendid ranges by which Thessaly is
traversed or enclosed, and which, farther north, pass
into that famous land which gave birth to the Mace
donian Phalanx, and therewith founded one of the

greatest empires the world has ever seen.

  Here again, as at Athens, it was impossible not to
be struck with the small geographical area occupied
by such memorable names, which was the home
Iof tribes which did much to civilize as well as merely

to conquer the world. could have stood long on that
summit, until every line of it had been engraved on

Imy memory, if had dared to do so. But heated by
Ithe steep ascent in a blazing sun, felt quite cut through
Iby the bitterly icy wind, and was soon driven back
behind the shelter of the crest, and compelled to
retrace my steps   to  tthheatfogoltorioofutsheviemwo--untthaeinu. suaTlhoenree
was but one fault  in
all over the South of Europe, and that was the bare
brown colour of all the plains, whilst any forests on
the mountains were either wanting or were scanty
and inconspicuous. But in all other respects the
Ilandscape which

is as beautiful as
                   frames Marathon and       ITthwerams owpoyrlathe
                   its interest is intense.
the severe bronchial cold which did not escape, from
the exposure to such sudden passages from great heat
to extreme cold, and which confined me for several
days entirely to our rooms in Athens. As, however,
Ithose rooms commanded a splendid view of Salamis

and the Peloponnesus, was not ill off, whilst one night
a house very near us took fire, and the ruddy glow
thrown by the flames on the range of Parnes produced
effects of curious beauty.
IBut the whole of my time in Athens was not spent
in looking at scenery and sites.  made the acquaint

250  GREECE                         [chap. XI

ance of our Minister at King Otho's Court --Sir Edmund
Lyons, that able and energetic sailor who was destined
ten years later to be the Commander of the British Fleet
in the Black Sea during the Crimean War, and without
whose ceaseless vigilance and forethought the siege
of Sebastopol, resting as it did entirely on a naval base,
could never have been conducted. Sir Edmund Lyons
is the only man who ever reminded me of the descrip
tions and paintings of Nelson. Small in person, with
a curious combination of gentleness and latent  force
in his expression, his address was charming.
                                                 His
daughter, then Miss Minnie Lyons, a very clever and
agreeable woman, did the honours of his house ; whilst
his son, Mr. Bickerton Lyons, was beginning to develop
those great diplomatic abilities and qualifications
which at a later date made him, as Lord Lyons, the
able representative of the British Government in
France during many critical years.
   Besides enjoying the interesting conversation and
hospitality of this remarkable family, we were admitted,
under the wing of the British Embassy, to seats in the
Diplomatic Gallery at a very curious performance.
We had arrived in Greece at a very critical moment
of its political history. The strange superstition was
then universal that new communities just relieved
from barbarism, and altogether inorganic in their own
nature, could be governed only under the full-blown
Parliamentary system which has been the growth of
centuries in England. A constituent Assembly, or

House of Commons, had been called together, and in
due form had been opened by a speech from the Throne.

In stereotyped form, also, an answer to this speech
had been issued as an address, and the debate was to
come off on a day soon after we arrived. The scene
was most curious. A considerable number of the
deputies were in the common European dress, amongst
whom was Mavrocordato, an illustrious name in the
Greek War of Independence. He was Speaker, or Presi
dent of the Assembly. But the great majority of the

1843-44]         THE GREEK ASSEMBLY                            251

Assembly were men clad in the white kilts and sheep

skin coats of the Greek or Albanian dress. In large
proportion they were fine and handsome men, and the
scene was curious and striking. Of course they had

no idea of any rules or order of debate, and any number
of them were on their legs at once shouting and
gesticulating with all the excitement of their Southern
natures. Poor Mavrocordato was armed with nothing
but a little tinkling bell, which he kept continually
ringing, in a vain endeavour to secure some order in the
debate. The deputies had no idea of taking the speech
from the Throne in the order of its sentences. One
man attacked it in the middle, another near the end,
whilst a third covered the whole of it with a few words.
ItMwaovrowcoorrddsatoonlyke--pttherepfiersatting
                                                   over and    over again
                                                  ever heard   and under
stood in modern Greek ; their simple object was to
insist that the speech must be taken ' paragraph by
paragraph ' in regular order as they occurred. ' Para-
graphon pros paragraphon,' he kept repeating, when
ever a moment's interval in the noise enabled his voice
Ito be heard.    do not recollect that any progress was
I Imade during the time was able to wait, and when
left, the Assembly was apparently in helpless and hope
less confusion.

   A comical incident occurred during this visit to
mtheentGraetektheAstsimeme.bly,Itwshoichhapapffeonrsdetdhauts
                                                                great amuse
                                                               both my elder
brother, who died in 1836, and myself, although the
children of dark-haired parents,                        mbyornchiwldihthoohdairI
of a brilliant golden-red colour.                 were

                                                   In
Ihad always been accustomed to hear red hair spoken

of with some disparagement, and used to be much
amused, and sometimes a little indignant, at a familiar
illustration  --whnicahmewlya,s  common in the Scottish Church
controversy                      that of a congregation rejecting
a presentee for  no better reason than because he had
                 onfowallhetraes--teinfotrhisbeeayuetyo--f
red hair. But                                                  Greece, this
                                                               my time of
ancient centre

252                        GREECE                           [chap. XI

revenge had come. Howson mingled among the
deputies, and engaged them in such conversation as
was possible between a Cantab, familiar only with
classical Greek, pronounced in the barbarous forms of
Anglican scholarship, and men who still use as a living
language the glorious tongue of Plato and of Aristotle.
One of the deputies, seeing that Howson had been
I Isitting with me, and pointing to me with his finger,

asked who was. Howson told him that was a
yaonudngthSactotIsmhaand,              for health and instruction,
                           travelling  interest in seeing Greece.
                            a great
' How does he dye his hair to produce such a colour ?'
asked the deputy. Howson told him that the colour
w' Dasonn'ot tteplrlomduectehdat,b' ysaaiddythe,e  but was  purely natural.
                                                   deputy.   ' Nature never
made anything so beautiful as that hair.' This was a
view of red hair that was quite new to me. No doubt
such colouring is unknown in Greece or in any part of
the Levant. But absolute novelty in any feature of
the human person is not always agreeable, so that the
opinion of that Greek deputy was afterwards an occa
sional comfort to me under less favourable apprecia
tioInswians  my own Northern latitudes.
              very sorry to leave Athens.                   Its charms did
not wane, but grew upon us. Its beauty and interest
seemed inexhaustible. We left it by a route which,
for the first day at least, was one of surpassing

glory. A steamer from the Piraeus took passengers for
the west to the head of the Gulf of Salamis, and landed
them on the shore of the Isthmus of Corinth. There
horses or mules were provided, and it was necessary to
ride across the Isthmus and along its western shore, to
its northern junction with the mainland of Greece.
The beauty of the Gulf of Salamis seemed greater

the more we saw of it. In riding across the Isthmus,
we rode, of course, across the ground which used to be
crowded by all the sons of Hellas in the tumult of the
Isthmian games.
Nothing could be more impressive than the contrast

1843-14]                CORINTH                         253

between the present, and the brooding memories of the
past. Those memories were not without some silent
but striking witnesses. We passed a few still standing
columns of a very ancient and almost archaic form of
Doric architecture. But the whole surface of the
Isthmus was one unvaried desolation, unadorned even
by trees, and covered only by a low scrub of uninterest
ing evergreen bushes. We stopped at the wretched
village which is all that represents the ancient city of
ICorinth, and    tried  to ascend  the Acrocorinthus    a; nbduIt
              air the   height of  hills is deceptive,
in that clear
Ifound that had no time to reach the top. Resuming
the saddle at Corinth, we rode along the Isthmus,
through the splendour of a glorious sunset, with the
mountains of the Morea in shadow, of an intense purple,
and those of the Olympian ranges to the north in tints
of brilliant rose and gold. The waters of the Gulf of
Patras to the west reflected all the colours of the sky,
with edgings of opal along the receding shores. During

Iall that long ride the only living thing saw was,
appropriately enough, the bird of Minerva. On the
top of a little rock, so close to the bridle-track, and

Isitting so absolutely still, that thought it must be
Isomehow disabled, saw a lovely little owl staring at
me with its yellow eyes. But on my dismounting to
try to catch it,  the bird    Itdarwteads  off into the deepest
shadow of the                              nightfall before we
                   bush.

reached the point off which the steamer was anchored
under the northern shore, and we could only see her
by her lights. Hailing her to send her boats, we got on
board, thus closing with a day of surpassing beauty
ImyItvwisaitsto
          at  Greece.   that  finally parted with Howson.

              Corinth

IHe went farther east, and our connection was ended.

He was an excellent man, and derived much benefit
from his knowledge of books.
Next morning, on our return voyage to Malta, as
we passed down the whole of the Gulf of Patras, the
scenery declined in interest and in beauty. The

254  WINTER IN ROME  [CHAP. XI

northern hills of the Morea were naked and without
striking forms. The ranges of Olympus were fine, but
far off, with bare, sunburnt, low ground near the sea.
At one point only my interest was awakened by a little
scattered town of white houses on the shore, which was
pointed out to me as Mesolonghi, the spot where
Byron closed his short and brilliant but deplorable
career. His final devotion to a great cause, and his
willingness to sacrifice his life to it, were at least
redeeming features of which it was pleasant to be
reminded.

  IFrom Malta we took the first steamer to Naples,

where found my father with his wife, and my sister,

Iwho had come from England. Advising him strongly

not to think of wintering anywhere but at Rome, at
once returned there myself, taking the route by sea

Ito Civita Vecchia, and was soon after rejoined by my

family, with whom spent my second winter in that
great centre of inexhaustible interest and beauty.

IAs before, did not go much into society, but made
Ia few friendships which valued. Foremost among

these was that with the eminent American sculptor,
Story, and his wife and family. They lived in one
of the finest old Roman palaces, on the staircase
of which there was a magnificent sculptured lion, and
they gave pleasant dinners and evening entertain
ments. He had all the great charm (to me) of highly-
cultured Americans, with the added charm which
belongs to the artistic world. The worst of such
friendships made in Rome is that they are cut off by
departure from it. Those who settle there every
winter generally spend the summer among the Italian
or Swiss hills, and pay but rare and passing visits to
England. The result is that even great friendships
made at Rome do not continue. This is the case even
with friendships between fellow-countrymen. Men
and women belonging to widely different sets in the
immense whirlpools of society at home may be thrown
together in Rome, and pleasant intimacies be formed ;

1844]       MRS. SOMEEVILLE                       255

but these are dissolved like soap-bubbles into thin air
                                  ocfasme --eeatisnsgocaiaretioennsdewd.ithSpeevoeprlael
I Iwhen the opportunities

of these occurred in my
whom greatly liked, but whom never met again in
life.
                                                  made that
  IThere was, however, one friendship
winter in Rome which belonged only too much to this

Iclass, but which, in some measure at least, was able
to prolong. This was my friendship with a very
remarkable woman, the celebrated mathematician,
Mrs. Somerville. Her singular simplicity and modesty
of character and conversation, completely masking her
brilliant intellectual powers, were a perpetual astonish
ment and an irresistible attraction to all who met her.
Small and inconspicuous in person, she had refined
Ifeatures, and must have been pretty when she was

young. When met her she must have been well past
sixty, and was going about with two not very youthful
daughters. Many years had passed since she burst
upon the world with an English translation of one of
othfethmeosctenpturoryfo--untdhe  and difficult   mathematical works
                                   ' Mecanique    Celeste ' of the great
Laplace. The scientific world was taken by surprise,
and all the savants of London, including Lord
Brougham, were at her feet. She was dined and feted
as no woman had ever been, or had equally deserved to
be. But no spoiling could move that gentle little
woman from her quiet and dignified equanimity. She
was as simple as a child. With no obvious look of
power in her face, she had that inwardness of expression
in her eyes which comes to all who habitually dwell in
the higher regions of abstract thought. But she was
fond of society, went much out, and did not at all seek
to conceal  her interest          minineev, eJn.  the most trivial of its
concerns.                                         F. Campbell (of Islay),
            A cousin of
had a droll example of this. He also had met her in
Rome the year before my acquaintance with her. She
was very kind to him, as a handsome, agreeable young
Scotsman, and he gained some intimacy with her.

2.56                           WINTER IN ROME                                             [CHAP. XI

Sitting next to her one evening at dinner, he noticed
that quite suddenly she fell into a profound fit of
absence of mind. She seemed to see or to hear nothing.
He was too shy to disturb meditations which he could
not doubt were connected with high and difficult sub
jects of calculation. He continued, therefore, in respect
ful silence. But when he saw her suddenly awake,
a' nPdraybedgoin   to    hear and  to observe,     he said to her:
                  not    think me  impertinent,    Mrs. Somerville,
Iif ask you what you were thinking of for some little
Itime, for could not but see that you were not here,
but somewhere else.' ' Would ye like to know ?' said
Mrs. Somerville, with an arch expression in her eyes,
and with an accentuated Scottish pronunciation,
Iwhich lent itself to her sense of fun. ' Very much,'
rjuesptlietdhinmkyingcooufsian--.   ' Well, then,  I'll tell ye. was
                                   new bonnet.'
                                                   My cousin and she
equally enjoyed the joke, for she saw the inference
he had drawn, and was only too delighted to con
found it.
           be            well  to  relate  here  an explanation                           which
  It may
Mrs. Somerville gave to me of her own literary history,
not only as an interesting anecdote of a very remark
Iable woman, but as an indication of the real nature of
such phenomenal powers as she possessed.           was very
curious to know how she first came to discover them
herself. Of course, in the present day, when there are
women's colleges, and even women Senior Wranglers,
no such question can arise. But in the days of
Mrs. Somerville' s youth, and in my own youth, women
had no opportunity of learning mathematics. One
Iday put          the question direct to           Mrs. Somerville.
                                                   An elder brother
' Well,' she      said, ' I'll tell ye that.
I Iof mine had a tutor, and one day, when was about,
Ithink, twelve years old, happened to find a little
Ibook on his table which had the curiosity to open and
Ialolpohkabinetto--. x,  yw, za,sansudroptrhiseerds--toprsineetesdinagllleovleetrtethrse  of the
Itogether with lines and crosses between them.
                                                                                          pages,
                                                                                          took

1844] MATHEMATICAL FACULTIES 257

the book to my brother, and asked him the meaning
of these signs. He said it was no use his trying to
explain them to me, as girls never could understand
IlIaeldhggaeedb.rab,Iettwtewhriacshgaivwesacsiuepnthceaenfnyoaramtmteeemnfo,prattnhdoisfntobhtreafnokcrinhwd.oomf kennow, wasso
piqued by this answer of my brother, and determined
Ito make another attempt by another way. So,

watching for an opportunity, got hold of the book
which had so excited my curiosity, and took it, not
to my brother, but to his tutor. He was very kind to
Ime, and began to explain the significance of the
algebraic signs.      at once felt able to understand
Ihis explanation, and followed him with delight, nor

ever after did feel the slightest difficulty in under
standing anything in the nature of mathematical

reasoning.'
This curious story arrested all my attention at the
       Iatndbeharass  recurred to me again and   again in later
time,                 directly on many problems  of psychology
life.

and many of the facts of history. Men and women
are born with an average equipment of innate capaci
ties and powers-- an average largely determined, no
doubt, by an average organization, an average of
common traditions and hereditary habits. But every
now and then, at rare intervals, some one man or woman
is born with some quite exceptional gift, or gifts, of
intellect. When these are numerous and well com

bined, we have those extraordinary beings who, at
distant intervals, have given a new direction to the
world. But, short of this, there are many cases where
the special power is a solitary gift, standing pretty
nearly alone, or combined only with very ordinary
aptitudes in other spheres of thought. The mathe
matical faculty seems to me to be, of all others, a
separable and an innate mental power, occurring
frequently in various degrees of congenital power and

Istrength. Yet it appears very often to stand alone,

if it be true, as have heard it stated on good authority,
vol. i.
                                                 17

258 RETURN TO ENGLAND BY THE RHINE [chap, xi

that the proportion of men who have been Senior
Wranglers at Cambridge, and who have become other
wise distinguished in after-life, is by no means con
siderable. The comparative want or feebleness of
this power is as marked as its occasional exceptional
Iactivity. My own consciousness had always told me

that have it not, insomuch that abstract numerical
Irelations have ever been to me a subject from which
    instinctively recoil, admitting, however, all the
time, and wondering at, the processes of pure thought
which have yielded such splendid and sure results in
our knowledge of the mechanical facts and laws of

INature.                   returned northward by

   As in the former year,
posting to Florence and Bologna, enjoying much the
very picturesque scenery to the north of the Roman
Campagna and on the southern borders of Tuscany.
Steep and sudden glens, with sides wooded often by
ilex and pine, and little farms and old castles on the
crests of hills, with vistas of the blue Apennines
Ibehind, made a paradise of artistic subjects. As in

the previous year had seen the Lombard Plain with
Iits cities on the northern side, at the foot of the Alps,
   wished now to see its southern side at the foot of the
Apennines. We therefore posted from Bologna by
Ithat route, visiting Modena and Parma in succession.

At Parma was delighted with the famous frescoes of
Correggio, especially those in the little room where
the most charming ' putti ' play in and out of spaces
left among trellised vines. The greater frescoes on
the cupolas and spandrils of churches are no doubt
very wonderful, as exhibitions of a mastery of drawing
Iand perspective which has never been equalled since.

But confess that to me the general effect is un-
pleasing. Tangles of human legs and bodies, fore
shortened in every attitude of bending and of extension,
never can be really beautiful, however wonderful the
artistic ingenuity and power expended upon them.
There was one object on this southern area of the

1844]             THE BRIDGE OF LODI                  259

great Lombard Plain which above all others attracted
my interest, and had in a great measure determined
Imy route. This was the Bridge of Lodi.
   As a boy had been much under the glamour of
INapoleon's military genius, despite the scathing denun

ciations of Mr. Pitt, some of which had by heart.
The action in which he forced the Bridge of Lodi is
one of the most famous and extraordinary of his

immortal Italian campaigns, and if it be true, as he
himself is reported to have said, that it was after this
action that he first began to dream of a future beyond
the visions of mere military renown, then that bridge
Iis one of the most interesting spots in Europe.
                                                      was
not disappointed with it, seeing that its whole position,
structure, and aspect make the wonder of Napoleon's
success seem fateful, and almost miraculous. The
bridge is a very long one, very narrow, and erected on
wooden piles driven into the bed of the river. Every
inch of it could be swept from end to end by a few
guns planted on the southern bank to command it,
yet, in face of the Austrian army, Napoleon, personally
leading his men, carried that bridge by assault, and
gained a splendid and a telling victory. Fuller know
ledge of Napoleon's later character, cruel and villainous

Iwhen he was drunk with power, has long destroyed the

glamour under which lay in early life. But if there
ever was a moment in his career when genius and
courage were alone so conspicuous as to challenge
universal admiration, assuredly it was in that memor
able campaign in Italy which saw his astounding
victory at the Bridge of Lodi.

  IHaving crossed the Alps by the Simplon in 1843,
now wished to see the Spliigen, more famous for its
scenery. Accordingly, passing again through Milan, we
posted to the Lake of Como, and on the 30th of April,
my twenty-first   birthday,  we  slept at the  sItouisthienrdneefodoat
of the pass, and  next day   we  crossed it.

splendid bit of engineering, and the grandeur of the
scenery is beyond comparison greater than that of

                                               17--2

260 RETURN TO ENGLAND BY THE RHINE [chap, xi

the Simplon. It was interesting to me to think that
every torrent on the northern side was to be counted
Iamong the head-waters of the Rhine, and at one point

   was amazed to see the ultimate parent of that
famous river contained in a cleft of rock so narrow
that it was spanned from side to side by one tall pine
that had been blown down on the nearer bank. But
the precipices from which those torrents came, and
the ragged forests through which they rushed, were
less interesting and less beautiful than the rich and
smiling valleys into which they fell, and through which
they pursued their gentler course.
No part even of happy Switzerland struck me as
happier than all the slopes and valleys which collect
ively are known as the Rheinwald. We posted
through it with delight to the Lake of Zurich, and, once
more             ownentht etoRhBirnues,sfeolsll,owaesdI  it to Cologne.
From  embarking
      thence we                                          wished much
to see the field of Waterloo. Few famous fields of
battle have had a plan so simple and so easily under
stood. The two ridges of slightly elevated country,
with a shallow depression between them which sepa
rated the two armies ; the hollow ways through which
the roads passed behind the British position ; the farm
house and orchard walls of Hougomont, which were so
long and so fiercely contested, were all just as they had
been twenty-nine years before. The leaden splashes
which marked the rain of French bullets were still
conspicuous on the brick surfaces which had been
exposed to it. The immense conical mound, sur
mounted by the Belgian Lion, which has been erected
on the Allied position, is in itself an ugly object. But
the bird's-eye view from the top of it enables one to
see what a decisive effect must have been produced
upon Napoleon's already discouraged armies by the
sound of the Prussian guns, and the approach of old

IBliicher on their right flank and rear. In passing

through the village of Waterloo, was amused by seeing
a very pretty young weeping-willow growing in one of

1844]                    WATERLOO                           261

the cottage gardens by the road, and being told that
it marked the burial-place, not of one of our heroes
in that bloody fight, but only of one of the legs of
Lord Paget, which he lost in a gallant but unfortunate
cavalry charge, that charge of which the Duke of
Wellington is reported to have said when he saw the

I IIblunder, ' Either Lord Paget or must go home.'
      confess looked and gazed on the field of Waterloo
with an interest more intense than could possibly be

connected with any mere military triumph. In my
boyhood my mind had been saturated with the senti
Iments, with the policy, and with the very words, of the
younger Pitt.  called to mind on that spot the
splendid and indignant denunciations of the tyranny
of Napoleon with which he animated the Parliaments
of England, and the listening Sovereigns of Europe,
Iin urging on them a policy of combined action against
the usurper.   called to mind how long and weary,
yet how steady and determined, his gallant and pre
scient struggle was ; how under the tremendous blows
of Jena and Austerlitz his spirit never quailed, although
his physical strength gave way; and how he died
with ' Oh, my country !' on his lips. There, on these
two low ridges of farming land, there round two
commonplace farm-houses, Hougomont and La Belle
Alliance, the policy of Mr. Pitt, only nine years after
his death, had been at last triumphant, and the
united armies of Europe, under the great English
captain, had advanced step by step from the lines of
Torres  Vedras, till on  the fields then before me  thIety  had
pulled                   of Europe to the ground.           may
and it  the conqueror    to ' lay our earthly fancies down.'
        must be right
But there is one of them which it is sometimes very
difficult to abandon, and that is a longing that some
great man had lived just long enough to see the full
triumph of his great ideas, and the realization of hopes
with which he had inspired the world. This earthly
fancy was certainly not realized in the case of Pitt.
But in the sphere of military action it was realized in

262  VISIT TO FIELD OF WATERLOO  [chap, xi

the case of Wellington. The deference shown to him
by the Allied Sovereigns in Paris, when the full fruits
of Waterloo had been grasped and secured, was but a
     of the universal honour which in his own
     followed that ' good grey head which all men
Ipresage

country
knew,' till, in the fulness of age and honours, saw
him followed to his grave in St. Paul's with the
lamentation of a mighty nation.

                CHAPTER XII

                          1844

MARRIAGE     -- ROSNEATH  --LAWPOST--ATFOORMFAAMTIIONNE  AND ABOLI
       TION                                              OF PEELITE
               OF CORN
PARTY -- RISE OF DISRAELI

I returned to England by Ostend, and on reaching
London called at Stafford House. The affectionate
kindness of my reception assured me in a moment that
I Ihad lost no ground by my winter's absence.            had

corresponded regularly with the Duke, who, however,
Iwas then absent at Brighton on account of his health.

   at once went off to Brighton to see him, and spent
a happy day with him in a boating excursion to see a
new church at Worthing. Next day he insisted on
coming with me to the station to see me off, which,

Iconsidering my youth and his own age, was, thought,

a very touching but unnecessary attention, though it
was, indeed, but a slight indication of the ingrained
Ikindliness and courtesy of his most charming character.

Feeling now sure of my ground, soon took occasion to
confess my hopes. The Duke came up from Brighton,
and all  was              ttohirmtyy-fgorueratyehaarps.pineIsws aasnmd asrariteisd
faction  then,  settled,
                 and for
to Lady Elizabeth Leveson-Gower at Trentham on the
I30th of July, 1844, by old Dr. Vernon Harcourt, Arch

bishop of York, the last that remember of the old
school of English prelates, a tall, handsome man of
grave and dignified manners, who never appeared
except in his episcopal wig, and was a great magnate,
rather than a prelate of the more modern school of
Anglicanism.

                          263

264  MARRIAGE                               [chap, in

I think it right to record here that I found in my
wife more than all that had been told me by her
numerous friends. On some subjects, excepting philo
I Isophy and the natural sciences, she was more widely
read than was at that time.             found that her

religious feelings and opinions were deeply touched by
the teaching of Dr. Arnold, and her enthusiasm for
every great and good cause was an hereditary character
istic derived from her beautiful mother. The main bent
of my own mind had been already largely determined,
but many new interests were awakened by my married
life. My own family circle had been very small
indeed. My wife's family connections were, on the
contrary, unusually numerous. In the fullest sense
of the word, my wife's mother became like a mother
to me, and her sisters like my own. These were
Evelyn, who had married Lord Blantyre the year
before ; Caroline, afterwards Duchess of Leinster ; and

Constance, afterwards Duchess of Westminster. More

than one of her uncles became my dearest friends, as,
for example, Lord Morpeth, afterwards Lord Carlisle,
Iand Lord Francis Egerton, afterwards Earl of Elles-

mere, of whom have spoken already. With the
Sutherlands we lived for a time literally as one family,
at Stafford House, or at Trentham, besides paying
long visits to each other in Scotland.
IWith this happy enlargement of family life gained
Ia wide circle of interesting friendships.  had had
indeed some warm friendships, but they were mostly
with men far older than myself. Partly from this
cause, no doubt, but also from an inborn circumspect
and logical habit of reflection, my mind was unusually
mature at an early age. My letters from the Continent
Ito the Duke of Sutherland were circulated rather widely

in that very large family circle, and was amused
by hearing afterwards that one near relative, old Lady
Granville, an aunt of the Duchess of Sutherland, and a
very clever woman, had exclaimed on reading one of

them, ' Quite charming ; but, oh, it might be from a

1844]  LONDON -- ROSNEATH                                              265

grandfather !' The Sutherland family, as regards
politics, was predominantly Whig, whilst my own allegi
ance to Sir Robert Peel remained unshaken. But
Ithis was an immense advantage to me, since at that

time had an unreasonable antipathy to the Whigs
as a party, and did not fairly appreciate the immortal
services they had rendered to the country only a few
years before. My antipathies soon melted away under
personal intercourse, and the great charm of character
and of conversation which distinguished such men as
Ldoowrdne.MorTpoethL,ordLorJdohnJohRnusRseulsl seIll,    and   Lord    Lans-
                                                       had,   indeed,
                                                                        been

iIntwroadsucseudrprbiseefodre,tobufitndonhmimoreplianytifmula, tehuamcoqruoauisn,tanacned
affectionate, whilst, of course, a long and eventful
political b'fe had given him a fund of most interesting
anecdote. A more charming companion in private
society could not be found, and we soon formed an
intimate friendship, which lasted till his death.
  There is one other general reflection which it is con

Ivenient to make here, before begin the record of
Imy life after had entered on its full course and many
Iduties. Men in the position in which stood have the
external conditions of their life pretty well predeter
mined for them. Country homes and the business of
administering large estates render a home-life both a

pleasure and a necessity. All the associations of my
childhood and all the pursuits and predilections of
my early days made this kind of life a second nature
to me. The result was that our residence in London
was no longer than the exigencies of political duty
rendered absolutely necessary, and the moment we
could get away we rushed off to our homes in Scotland.
There we entertained a great variety of friends, and
enjoyed the society of distinguished men and women,
whom we could never have elsewhere seen with equal
intIimaocuyghatndncootmftoort.omit to mention the special
character of my country home. Rosneath, which

266  ROSNEATH  [chap, in

was assigned to us by my father on our marriage,
was, it will be remembered, close to the home of
my birth and childhood, and had itself been the
place in which my memory became awakened to
conscious life. Sir Walter Scott, in the concluding
scenes of ' The Heart of Midlothian,' calls it an island.
This is a mistake, although its long peninsular exten
sion into the Firth of Clyde makes it seem to be an

island from several points of view. At the eastern

termination there is a bend and a projection on which
the old residence is situated, and from which there is

one of the loveliest views in the West of Scotland.
The foreshortened shores of a long mountain lake, sur
mounted at the western end by a splendid range of
wild and corrugated mountains, cannot fail to be
beautiful, especially when the foreground consists of
intricate and quiet bays, with fine woods fringing them
on every side. Magnificent beeches drooped their
branches over the very water at high-tide, whilst
fine Scots fir-trees and the two largest silver firs in
Europe adorned the elevations which sloped gently
into the sea. One great attraction of the place was its
privacy. Being a peninsula, there were no public roads
following the line of coast, as is very usual in the
Highlands. The shores were part of the estate. On
the southern side there was a low horizon towards the
Valley of the Clyde, and the early winter's sun came
streaming across the lawns and gardens full of delicate
evergreens, including large arbutus and bay-laurels.
The high range at the head of the loch was often
splendid in this light, a perpetual reminder of that

beautiful expression in the Book of Joel which was a
favourite with Lord Shaftesbury, ' Like morning spread

upon the mountains.'
   This beautiful place had, too, some interesting

historical associations. Its castle had been held by
Edward I., and had been won from his hands by
Sir William Wallace. Popular tradition, erroneously
no doubt, pointed out a spot where his horse had

1844]           THE HOUSE OF COMMONS                                  267

been killed in leaping a precipice of about 50 feet
of conglomerate rock. The estate included many
features delightful to me ; one was a fine wood of
Scots fir, which contained a large heronry. Those
beautiful birds were always fishing round our quiet
shores. There was an excellent grouse moor easily
accessible from the house, and the views all round the
shores of the estuary of the Clyde, down to the peaks
of Arran, were cheerful, various, and beautiful. The

Argyll family had held the estate since 1489, and had
embellished it  efbfyectcivoentipnluaonutisng.impIrtovwemillennto, t  and by
judicious and                                                         be sur

prising that, having such a country home, we never
wished to  leave it except  for Inveraray, and that                   there
                            time for the literary                       and
I found    uninterrupted
political work which soon became my principal

occupation.
The date of my coming of age and of my marriage,
so nearly simultaneous, seems the proper time to
mention one disadvantage    intimmey--ctahreeer    which made
itself felt by me at that                        disadvantage,
Inamely, of never having had any opportunity of enter
ing the House of Commons.   missed it from very
peculiar circumstances. The county of Argyll was a
secure family seat. My uncle, Duke George, though
he took no personal part in politics, was always a
Whig, and held office under more than one Whig
Government. His nephew, Walter Campbell of Islay,
son of his beautiful sister, Lady Charlotte, sat as
member for the county in the Whig interest. When
my father succeeded, his nephew Islay did not feel
comfortable in retaining the seat, and resigned. A
former Conservative candidate, Mr. Campbell of
Monzie, stood, as he had stood before, and with my
father's support met with no opposition. He took
part with my father in the Scottish Church question,
being one of the few Scottish members who did so.
But he made speeches which sounded very radical to
the county lairds. The constituency became very

268                                 POTATO FAMINE      [chap, in

restive under him, and, encountering many indica
Itions of this, he felt anxious to escape from his

position. But he knew that must naturally desire
to succeed him, and, as this was in 1843, 1 could not do
Iso for another year. Under these circumstances, he

wrote to me to say that, if wished him to do so, he
would hold on in the seat till after the 30th of April,
I1844. This put me in rather a difficult position, because

no one knew better than did the dissatisfaction of
tdheelibceorantsitointu, eIncfeylt  with  Itchoeuirld  member. After mature
                                    that               not, on grounds affecting

myself only, take the responsibility of saddling a great
Iconstituency with a distrusted member for a whole
year at a very important political time.               therefore
declined his offer. The seat was at once filled by no
less able and distinguished a man than Duncan
McNeill of Colonsay, a representative of one of the
oldest families in the county, who was Lord Advocate
for Scotland in the Government of Sir Robert Peel,
the author of much difficult and important legislation,
and who became Lord President of the Court of Session,
one of the very best that has guided the decisions
of that supreme court of law in Scotland. On all

Ioccasions, and they were many, on which heard
Ipraises of his career in the House of Commons, felt
Ihow rightly had decided in not standing between
the constituency and the services of so eminent a man.
IHe was made a peer, under the title of Baron Colonsay

of Colonsay and Oronsay, in 1867. But have never
coefaCseodmmtoornesg. retItthies    loss  of an        experience of the House
                                    true  that,
                                                       as it happened, that ex
perience could only have extended over three sessions,

Ibecause in April, 1847, succeeded to my father's
Ipeerage. But during three sessions should undoubt
edly have made many personal friends of my own age,
and should have                                knowledge of men which
nothing else can  acquired                Iat  is not generally observed
                  supply.
how very large a number of the peers have been
members of the House of Commons for a longer or a

1844] MY POLITICAL VIEWS                  269

shorter time, and what an effect this has on the silent

and automatic causes which smooth the working of
our old and hereditary Constitution. There is no truth
whatever, of course, in the passionate nonsense which
Gladstone once used when he spoke of peers, as such,
' living up in a balloon.' They mingle with all other

classes in society, they belong to the same political
parties, they stand often on the same platforms, they
read the same newspapers, and the line between peer
Iand commoner is invisible and imperceptible in all the
business relations of life.  speak of the House of
Commons simply as an assembly of men which it is
of importance for every politician to belong to, even
for a time, however short, that he may know its

Imembers as widely as he can. This, and this only,

was a loss to me, a loss which have felt through

life.
   The attitude of my mind towards political parties
at this critical period of my life may be easily explained.
Sympathy with a great popular cause in Scotland,
which both political parties treated with equal folly,
had effectually destroyed any complete trust in either.
Mere names could not deceive me. The Conservatives
had failed to see what was really best worth conserving.
Liberals had failed to see what the most sacred of all
popular rights demanded of them. But on all purely
Isecular matters my sympathies were entirely with
Sir Robert Peel.  had seen the decrepitude of the
Whig Government under Lord Melbourne, their clinging
Ito office when they had lost all power.  saw with
something like contempt the opposition made by the
Whig party to the great policy of Sir Robert Peel in a
complete reform of the tariff in the direction of Free

ITrade, and under the protection of a renewed income

tax. could see no reason in the Whig objection that,
because Mr. Pitt had originally established the income-
tax for the purposes of war, it was never right to use
it for any other purpose whatever. Sir Robert Peel
was not a chief to inspire a young man with any

270       FORMATION OF PBELTTE PARTY                         [chap, xn

Ienthusiasm, and I had none for him. But used to
go to the House of Commons whenever Peel was to
make a great speech, and always listened with the
greatest interest to his somewhat ponderous but
impressive and weighty arguments. One thing in

Ithose speeches during the two sessions of 1844 and

1845 which particularly noticed was the almost
faint-hearted, and certainly apologetic, tone of his
speeches on the annual motions for the repeal of the
Corn Laws. Nothing could be more different from
the tone of the really convinced Protectionist party.
Protectionism, not only for agricultural produce, but
for manufacturing and colonial interests, had been the
traditional policy of all parties in the State. The Whig
leaders, with Lord John Russell at their head, had
begun to waver, and had proposed a low fixed duty on
corn in preference to the sliding scale of the existing
tax. But this looked so like a mere party manoeuvre
that it only increased my distaste towards them.
On the other hand, the orators of the League were so
unjust and violent in their ascription of purely personal
motives to all landlords and tenants who supported
the traditional policy, that their speeches constantly
filled me with an indignation which was not unjust.
Moreover, it was evident to me that, if merely personal
and class interests could be ascribed to one party,
they were often openly avowed by the other. For the
doctrine often paraded was that wages were regulated
by the price of bread, and cheap bread was the only
hope of securing cheap labour. This would have been
the broadened doctrine of the great economist Ricardo.
But this  aIrtgupmroemntisheedldaougtrenaot  promise of any
                                             advantage to    universal
benefit.                                                     the capi
talist, possibly, without any benefit to wage-earning

classes.
   On the whole, therefore, my sympathies were with
Peel in his cautious defence of the very modified
protective laws which he had himself introduced only
two years before, in 1842. He was supported by large

1844-15]  THE POTATO DISEASE                     271

majorities in resisting the annual motion of Mr. Charles
Villiers for the total repeal of any duty on corn. And
this was the condition of affairs down to the close of
the session of 1845, which ended on the 9th of August.
Peel's position seemed unassailable. There was a
general recognition of the splendid political services
his Government had rendered, in restoring the
finances, in reforming the tariff, and in conciliating
the Catholics of Ireland by a grant to the College of
MaIytnwoaostha. t this time that an incident occurred which
seemed at the moment trivial, but which nevertheless
has left an indelible impression on my mind. We
were then living with the Sutherlands at Stafford
House, where on the 6th of August, 1845, our first child
was born. A few days after, relations and friends were
calling to inquire or to congratulate. Amongst these
came one day the Duke of Norfolk, whose Duchess was
the Duke of Sutherland's eldest sister. He was not a
man of any distinction in public life, but he was an
excellent country gentleman, and had a very competent
knowledge of rural affairs. He had just come to town
from Arundel, his beautiful place in Sussex, and he
told us of a mysterious blight which had fallen on the
potato crop in Sussex and in other Southern counties.
He described the sudden withering of the stalks and
leaves, the rapid infection of the tuber, and the destruc
tion of it, even as a food for pigs. Although he was
full of the subject, and his description must have
                         attention,  from the
strongly arrested my    neither he               vividness of
my recollection of it,               nor I, nor  anyone else

at that time, had the remotest conception of the
tremendous effects which were about to be produced by
a cause apparently so trifling and accidental. We
should then have thought him mad, if any man had
told us that the mysterious blight described by the
Duke of Norfolk would, within a few months, not only
settle the long-standing question of the Corn Laws, by
rendering their repeal inevitable, but would break up

272             FORMATION OF PEELITE PARTY   [chap, xu

the strongest and most beneficent Government that
had existed for many years in England, would make
an entirely new cleavage in political parties, lasting for
more than a generation, and finally, would much more
thaItn  decimate the population of Ireland.
        was not many days after this conversation  that
                                             Sir Robert Peel.
Ithtecafmirset   serious intimation reached  farmer, speaking
                not from any land-owner or
only of his own fields, but from a potato-merchant who
spoke of the whole of the South-eastern counties.
Peel took immediate alarm. So did Sir James Graham,

who was his Home Secretary. Steps were at once taken
to secure systematic reports on the extent of the

disease. In the abeyance of Parliament, a terrible
responsibility was thrown on the Executive. Those
two Ministers were like men standing on a watch-tower,

and seeing all round the horizon the distant gleams of a
great but slowly invading host. But this is only a
feeble image of the desperately embarrassing position
in which those two Ministers stood. Watchmen are
not generally disbelieved. Still less is there ever any
antecedent prejudice tending to suspicion against their
warning cries. But Peel and Graham were the leaders
of a great party which had been trained and educated
to believe that it was a matter of vital importance to
keep up a system of duties on the import of food. The
very first conviction which was daily forcing itself on
the watchmen, Peel and Graham, was that in the face
of a great scarcity and of a probable famine in Ireland,
all such import duties must be at least suspended.
The next conviction which both Peel and Graham,
being statesmen, felt more and more strongly was that,
once removed, those duties could never be reimposed.
They knew, on the other hand, that this sequence
was instinctively foreseen and felt. Peel knew that
the great majority of his colleagues were Protectionists
by conviction as well as by mere tradition. He must
have known that his own cautious and half-hearted

language on behalf of their doctrine had been observed

1844] SIR ROBERT PEEL'S DIFFICULTIES                 273

by them, and must expose him to suspicion if he acted
on his growing alarm one moment before the danger
became imminent and undeniable.
In this most unpleasant and dangerous position he
spent the rest of August, the whole of September,
and the whole of October, before he ventured to

summon his Cabinet. During those two months
and a half he was not idle. He was collecting the
most authentic information, he was preparing for
executive action in relief of the inevitable distress in
Ireland, and he was corresponding with leading men

both inside and outside the Cabinet. At last he
summoned that body to meet him on the last day of
October. Laying open to them all his mind, he showed
them that the continued maintenance of import duties
was impossible. He told them that he could not
undertake to propose the restoration of the Corn
Laws when the temporary emergency had been met.

He foresaw it would be an impossible policy. What
he proposed, therefore, was an immediate suspension,
and ulterior legislative proposals with a view to the
final settlement of the question by a careful and well-
considered repeal, under such precautions and com
pensations for the agricultural interests as might be
agreed upon. His weighty statement of facts and his
irrefutable logic fell on deaf ears. Out of all his col
leagues, only three of the members of the Cabinet
supported him. Those three wise men were Sir James
Graham, Home Secretary; Lord Aberdeen, Foreign
Secretary ; and Sidney Herbert.

  Peel consented to wait till the end of the month
rather than break up the Government at once. But
the month only brought a new embarrassment to the
Prime Minister. He whom       --wLeordall    at  thRautssetlilm--e

irreverently called 'Johnny'               John
thought it an excellent opportunity for striking a
strategic blow. He issued a manifesto in favour of a
total repeal of the Corn Laws. The leader of a party
which had hitherto supported Protection, and had
vol. i.
                                                 18

274    FORMATION OF PEELTTE PARTY  [chap, xn

voted year after year against Mr. Villiers' motion,
now suddenly discovered that Protection was ' the
bane of agriculture.' Of course the Protectionist
majority in Peel's Cabinet were made more intractable
than ever. His proposed course looked like a surrender

to the Whig leader. In spite, therefore, of the rapidly-
growing evidence of approaching distress and famine,
the Protectionists would not give way. Peel then
resigned. The Queen sent for Lord John to form a
Government. He tried and failed. Peel was recalled
by the Queen. He accepted unconditionally, deter
mined no longer to depend on the assent of his former
colleagues, but to go on if necessary without them.
He summoned them and told them so. All except
two accepted the inevitable, and one, the grand old
Duke of Wellington, was positively delighted with
Peel's resolute attitude, and assured him of his own

cordial support.

  The Bill for the abolition of the Corn Laws was
accordingly introduced early in 1846, and was tri
umphantly carried in both Houses. But, by a dis
creditable coalition between the angry Protectionists
and the Whigs, Peel was defeated almost at the same

moment on a Bill to check assassination in Ireland,
and in July, 1846, he closed his great political career
by his final resignation.
During all these transactions in 1845 and 1846, in
Iso far as they were known to the public, followed
IPeel's course with sympathy.  rejoiced in Lord
IJohn's failure to form a Government in December,
1845.  resented the assumption that the Whig

Iparty as represented by him had any special mission

to repeal the Corn Laws, when had with my own
ears, session after session, heard all the leaders of that
party resist repeal, and when they had at last lifted
the banner of Free Trade only under circumstances
which condemned it as a new move in the party game.

IIn the session of 1846 was present at many of the
Idebates both in the Commons and in the Lords.

1846]  PEEL AND DISRAELI         275

Iheard Peel open and defend his case with, as thought,
Iirrefutable logic.   heard the young and fantastic
adventurer, Benjamin Disraeli, begin those personal
I Iassaults on the great Minister which assisted to bring
him into prominence.  confess hated them and the
man who made them. They were purely personal,
nothing but a series of clever invectives carefully
prepared, glancing even with great skill at individual
peculiarities, but never containing any serious con
victions. They were essentially the attacks of a con-
dottiere. Nothing but the excited passions of men
who thought they had been betrayed, could have made
those attacks otherwise than offensive to any assembly
I Iof English gentlemen.
                      recollect well, as if had seen
Iand heard it yesterday, the only occasion on which
heard Peel condescend to notice the language and
conduct of his assailant. Disraeli sat on one of the
higher benches on the Conservative side of the House.
Peel, speaking, of course, from the Table, turned half
round, so as to be able to see the Bar with a sidelong
Iglance to his left, and said, very slowly and deliberately :

 'Sir, will not waste the time of the House in making
any reply to the venomous attacks of the honourable
member for Shrewsbury.' The word ' venomous ' was
pronounced with emphasis, and with a peculiar curling
of the lips which was very expressive of intense con
tempt. There was, indeed, one other occasion on which
Peel felt called upon to vindicate himself, by a long
personal explanation, from an accusation against him
in his relations with Canning, and with Catholic
emancipation nineteen years before. He did so, not
because the accusation was made by Disraeli, but

because it was made by Lord George Bentinck, who,
as a relative of Canning, might be supposed to have
authority for his statements. But at the close of his
triumphant refutation of an old political slander he
treated Disraeli with a lofty and a due disdain. ' The

Ihonourable gentleman,' said Peel, ' frequently and

feelingly complains that won't condescend to bandy

                          18--2

276          FORMATION OF PEELTTE PARTY           [chap, xn

personalities with him. . . . Every man has a right
to determine for himself with whom he will descend
into the arena of personal contest.' And so he left
the great adventurer to lead and guide the Protectionist
faction, on whose vindictive passions of the moment he
knew so well how to play.
  IThere is one other personal recollection of that

stirring time which must dwell on for a moment,
and that is the speech of Lord Stanley in the House
                             reaIdtinsgeeomf etdhetoBimll efotrhtehne,
Iof Lords

abolition
       against   the second
        of the   Corn Laws.
and it seems to me still, by far the finest speech have
ever heard in Parliament. His silver voice, his easy
                            the rhythm   of  his  sentences, his
and    graceful delivery,  main points  of   his  case -- all were
skill  in arranging the
combined in that speech with a fervency of conviction
which was rendered all the more apparent from the
painful contest he     had gone                   with his own
colleagues in Peel's  Cabinet.   Itthwroausgah  real pleasure to
me to hear those arguments so well put, which up to a
few months ago had satisfied all the leading parties
in the State. This was a plea on which he rested a
             in  a splendid and
good deal        could not accept  tthoeucnheinwgteapcehrionrga.tionI.f
He declared  he

he was wrong, he could at least remember that he was
wrong in good company, including the wisest men in
both parties in the State. He was content to abide
in the convictions of Liverpool and of Huskisson, of
Canning and of Grey.
   When the smoke of this great battle, fast and
furious, had passed away, it was clear that a new face
had been put on the world of English politics. The
old traditional parties had been completely shattered.
A new party had arisen, which for the moment was
called Peelite, but which soon came to be recognised
as the Liberal-Conservative party, inheriting all that
was best in the traditions of Toryism, and yet under a
new impulse to yield to      evidence   or to      argument in
favour of all real reforms.             party     which seemed
                             It was a

1846]    SIR ROBERT PEEL'S SUPPORTERS                         277

to be founded on the remarkable words of Peel in his
great speech on the Address on the 22nd January, 1846 :

I' Whether holding a public station or placed in a

private one, will assert the privilege of yielding to
the force of argument and conviction, and acting
on the results of enlarged experience.' This party,
though ejected from office and not numerous, was in
a position of effective power, holding the balance
between  other parties  inforwethigeht.momItenintc, luadnedd  sure to
grow in  numbers and                                           all the

members of Peel's Cabinet who were of any great
ability, with the single exception of Lord Stanley.
Outside the circle of those who had been Cabinet

Ministers, it included a good many men of high
position, great abilities, and a wide sphere of influ

ence.

  It is well to record the names of some of these, for
they contributed not a little both to the settlement of
a great question and to the establishment of a great
party. One was Lord Francis Egerton. He moved
the Address for Peel on the opening of the session of
1846. Another was Lord Ashley, afterwards Earl of
Shaftesbury, a man of strong Conservative leanings,
but also one of the most earnest and most successful
reformers of his time in social legislation. Another,
again, was Lord Mahon, afterwards Earl Stanhope,
the historian, also of strong Conservative opinions,
but upon whom reading and reflection had told
decisively under the combination of circumstances
which had determined the course of Peel himself.

  ITo a new party so constituted it seemed as if
belonged by nature. The tendency to eclecticism in
my opinions, which arose out of early education and
Icircumstances, was exactly reflected in this fresh

political group, and gave to it all my sympathy.
Taphpeairrenpto. werIt  in the State   did not    at once become
                         was the joke    against  them that they
were like a corps of officers with no battalions to
command. But they acted together as one man in

278  RISE OF DISRAELI         [CHAP. XII

supporting the Whig Government against any reac
           the Protectionist    party. Peel
           danger long, as
Itionary attemptsby           think, after it
     this
continued to fear
had passed away. But for a time the Peelites seemed
merged in a great united army, whose one object
was to defend free trade in corn against any possible
risk of overthrow.
   As all the world knows, it was in the broken waters
of that stormy time that Benjamin Disraeli was floated
to the surface. But it is less known how completely
this image represents the nature of his rise. A states
man of great eminence, who served with and under
Disraeli to the last, once said to me in conversation,

I' Disraeli is the greatest myth that know,' referring,
Ias understood at the time, to the wide difference
between the current beliefs about him and the realities
of his character and position. This mythical atmo
sphere enveloped him from the first. The popular
idea, propagated alike by friends and foes, has been
that, by the sheer strong swimming of extraordinary
genius, he breasted innumerable opposing currents;
that the accidents of opportunity did little for him,
and that he was even handicapped in the race for power
by every kind of external difficulty and disadvantage.

All this is not only incorrect, but it is the reverse of
the truth. Never, perhaps, has any politician been
so favoured by the most extraordinary accidents of
external circumstance. The secession from the ranks
of the Conservative party of the whole of Peel's
Official staff cleared out of his way in the House of
Commons, at one fell swoop, every single man of
recognised Parliamentary experience and ability who
could possibly be thought of as a leader. Lord George
Bentinck was, for a short time only, a nominal excep
tion. His whole life had been devoted to the turf, and
though he had considerable natural abilities, they were
not of a kind to qualify him for such a position. His
high birth, his perfect honesty, and the evident
sincerity of his opinions, did nevertheless raise him

1846]              BENJAMIN DISRAELI  279

to it for a moment. But even this obstacle was
speedily removed out of the way of Dizzy. In the
prime of life, with a person the handsomest in
the House of Commons, and an appearance of manly
strength which was in itself attractive, Lord George
Bentinck fell dead on a lonely footpath across one
of his ancestral fields. By this strange event Disraeli
was soon left absolutely alone, the only piece upon
the board on that side of politics that was above
the level of a pawn. What is true of Disraeli is,
not that he conquered his own position and oppor
tunities, but that he had some special gifts which
enabled him to take advantage of several purely
accidental openings, altogether unprecedented in their
width and facility of passage. He was like a subaltern
in a great battle where every single superior officer
was killed or wounded.
Nor is the popular impression less wide of the mark
respecting some supposed personal disabilities over
which        Itis   said to   have triumphed only by supreme
genius.  he        is true,  indeed, that in the ordinary social

sense of the words he was a man of no birth. He was
a foreigner, and a Jew. But these circumstances
were no impediments whatever in his way. The
British aristocracy was called a ' proud ' one by Lord

John Russell in 1846. But whatever faults it may have,
it has never had any vulgar prejudice against ' new
men.' Out of such men it has been itself built up, by
the continuous welcome and incorporation of them
for 700 years. Nor does there now exist in England
any of that disgraceful antipathy to Jews which
still prevails on the Continent of Europe. But
besides all this, Disraeli was the son of a man highly
distinguished in literature, who had been long natura
lized in England, and was an acceptable guest in the
best society. Young Dizzy himself, although in
dress and manners a fantastic fop, had long before
made his mark in the literature of fiction. His
novels, full of absurdities and paradox as they were,

280  RISE OF DISRAELI             [CHAP. XII

had so arrested attention that Dean Milman spoke of
one of them as being as clever as Byron's poem of
' Don Juan.' In one of his early, but abortive,
attempts to win a seat in Parliament, he had actually
enjoyed the support of such splendid patrons as

Wellington and Lyndhurst. In London society he
was received everywhere with  a distinction which   was
largely mixed with curiosity  and amusement.
really nonsense to talk of a man                   It is
                                  in such a position as
a mere 'Jew boy,' who, by the
                                  force of nothing but
extraordinary genius, attained to the leadership of a
great party. The only impediments in his way were,
not any want of external advantages, but his own often
grotesque and unintelligible opinions. These, how
ever, all the more served to rouse curiosity and arrest
attention. But neither these nor any other power
which he possessed would ever have secured for him
the place he came to occupy if the normal division of
parties had continued, and if the Conservatives had

Ifnot been suddenly deprived of all their leaders.
such men as constituted Peel's staff, if Sir James
Graham, and Sidney Herbert, and Gladstone, and
Dalhousie, had continued to be chiefs in that party,
they never could have been pushed aside or superseded

by such qualities as Disraeli possessed. In 1846 he had
been for twenty years a conspicuous writer, and he had
been already for nine years in the House of Commons.
He was not a youth with unknown qualities unde
veloped. He was forty-two years old, and in the
House he had been a frequent speaker without giving
any indication of political genius. But when a clean
sweep was made of all the official leaders and of others
from the Conservative ranks, an absolute vacuum
was created, into which Dizzy was just the man to
step. He had no opinions of his own. He had no
traditions with which to break. He was free to play
with prejudices in which he did not share, and to
express passions which were not his own, except in so
far as they were tinged with personal resentment.

1846]   THE PEELITE PARTY  281

He was an adept in the art of inventing skilful phrases,
and these, carefully prepared, and backed with the
venom of the enraged Protectionists, were the very
weapons needed to concentrate on the great Minister
I Ithe resentful animosities of an angry and defeated
party.  write now as saw and felt then, but later
reflection has not altered my opinion.
   The feeling of loyalty to Sir Robert Peel told, no

doubt, on all the able men who formed the backbone
of the Peelite party, and who had been his colleagues,
and, together with the dread of a reaction in favour
of Protection, was the predominant influence which
determined the course of politics during the six years
from the end of 1846 to the date of the so-called
Coalition Government of Lord Aberdeen in the end of

1852.

                   CHAPTER XIII

                                                       1846

ECONOMIC PROBLEMS AFFECTING ARGYLL PROPERTIES --

                       VISITS TO THE HEBRIDES

The lessons which came to me in this period of
my life were not confined to those connected with
politics. The same mysterious calamity which then
broke up our political parties told most seriously on
the private affairs of my father and myself. As
suddenly as the British Parliament found to its dismay
that it had in Ireland a population on its hands of
8,000,000 souls, a great number of whom were
threatened with starvation, so, not less suddenly, did
we find that we had on our hands on our own
estates a population of about 7,000 in a like con
dition. The whole of one Hebridean island, Tiree,
and a large portion of another, Mull, formed part of
the Argyll estates. Geographical isolation had kept
the Hebrides behind the rest of Scotland in the
progress of civilization. The inhabitants were steeped
in an ancient hereditary ignorance of the very elements
of agricultural industry. The whole of Celtic Scotland
was bad enough in this way. The people did not even
know how to save a little of the abundant summer grass
for hay in winter, and the cattle were consequently
nearly starved. They did not know the principle of
a rotation of crops, and the corn was miserably poor.
Their system of occupancy was communal, each man
changing his wretched patch with his neighbours in
the same village or township every year, by lot. The
very idea of improvement was impossible. The indi

1846]  SCOTTISH CLANS  283

vidual mind, the source of all power, was kept down to
the level of the stupidest, who had the right to object to
any change. But, bad as the condition of things was on
the mainland, it was ten times worse in the Hebrides.

   All through the military ages, the epoch of the

clans, the insular chiefs were in chronic hostility to
the Scottish monarchy ; and when not fighting against
the Crown, they were perpetually cutting each other's
throats, devastating each other's lands, and putting
to flight each other's followers. The only chance the
poorer classes had of peace and security was to come
under the power of some chief who was strong enough
to protect them. My family had always taken the
side of the Crown in its contests to secure a central
and national Government. That was the highest
service any subject could then render to his Sovereign
and his country. The natural and legitimate reward
was grants of the lands of the rebellious and defeated
chiefs. Such grants accordingly were given to the
Argyll family, in the seventeenth century, of lands in

Mull and Tiree and Morvern. The value set upon

landed possessions under the anarchy of the clans had
been measured by the number of men they could hold
for the purposes of war and plunder. And that
number was generally greatly in excess of the amount
of people that could be supported by merely local
produce. Therefore, at the union of the Crowns
in 1603, the population was already in many places
excessive. The same thing happened in the Border
Highlands, where the clan system had been quite as
much developed and as mischievous as in the Celtic

Highlands. In the Border Highlands the surplus

population was speedily dispersed by migration to the
rising towns, and by the plantation of Ulster. But
in the Celtic Highlands no such depletion followed for
more than a hundred years.

    Between the union of the Crowns in 1603 and the
first Jacobite Rebellion in 1715, the population was only
 kept down by pestilence and famine. Periodically the

284                      ECONOMIC PROBLEMS         [chap, xi ri

small-pox decimated the people, whilst seasons of
scarcity, from a bad climate and from a most ignorant
and barbarous husbandry, were frequent and severe.

Even with these checks on population, it did increase
beyond the average means of subsistence, because,
unfortunately, when fighting ceased, the fighting
organization of society remained. The cultivators,
i'ftowsuncshhipst.h' ey   could be   called, were             in
                         They had   no individual   grouped
                                                   holdings,  so
that even the few who might know how to improve
land had no inducement or opportunity to do so.
They were only tenants at will under the larger
leaseholders, and they were liable to them for
services in labour which were indefinite, and there
fore tended to be oppressive and discouraging to
individual industry.
The island of Tiree had the natural advantages of
good soil and rich pasture. Yet when the attention
of my ancestors was first called to the state of the
people, it was found to be in a condition which we
should now describe as barbarous. There was no
remedy short of a complete break with the past, and a
reconstitution of society. The poorer classes had to
be emancipated from their thraldom to the lease
holders, and from their worse thraldom to each other.
But all such changes, however beneficent, were opposed
by ignorance and the insuperable love of ancient
customs. Reform was effected only by the power of
the landlord to insist on the necessary changes, or on
the departure from the estate of those who refused.
But fast as these reforms led to increase of produce, so
fast did the population increase.
   Then came what seemed a godsend          at the time --the
discovery that the seaweed cast on an open and stormy
shore was full of alkali salts of great commercial value,
which could be realized by a very simple process of

burning in open kilns. A roaring trade was soon
established. My grandfather paid to the people so high
a price for their ' kelp ' that practically they had no

1846] THE POTATO FAMINE AND EMIGRATION  285

rent to pay for the land. He was an old soldier, and
had been busy in his youth raising regiments for the
army. He disliked and dreaded the emigration which
had begun to set in, and to accommodate more people,
he cut up several of the larger farms into smaller
possessions, holding about ten or a dozen cows.
Unfortunately, he died in 1806, and was followed by
my uncle, Duke George, who was what silly people
call an excellent landlord, because he let the people do
exactly as they liked. And what they did like to do
was to allow all their descendants to settle on the land,
subdividing again and again their holdings to accom
modate their young married sons. The potato had
been introduced earlier, and had served well to support
the growing multitudes. The population of Tiree
had increased more rapidly than the population of
Glasgow, so that from 1769 to 1802 it had increased
from 1,670 to 2,776, and in 1846 it had mounted up
to 5,000.

   When the potatoes failed in 1846, of course there
was great distress, and there would have been starva
tion but for the measures taken by my father and
myself. His health had by this time so far declined

Ithat was called upon to deal with the difficulty as
Iwell as could. What we did was to take advantage

of the loans which Sir Robert Peel established to enable
land-owners to tide over the difficulties that might

arise from the abolition of the Corn Laws. In the

meantime we bought cargoes of Indian meal, and gave
it out to the people in wages for systematic drainage
on the land. But we did also what was even more

Iimmediately necessary for a permanent reform. The

time had not then come which call the epoch of the
fools, when agitators told the people that an excessive
population ought to be ' rooted in the soil,' and that
emigration was a device of the great enemy of man
kind. The people themselves were intelligent enough

to see that their numbers were excessive, if the main
stay of their former food was no longer to be depended

286   ECONOMIC PROBLEMS                                                [chap, xhi

on.   TtoheeymigthraetreeftooreCanpaedtiati.oneIdadvmisyedfahtimherto  to help
them                                                                   comply.
Large sums were spent on emigration for several years,
and before the operation had been completed we had
helped to settle in the New World, under favour
able conditions, very nearly 2,000 souls from the

overburdened island of Tiree. In the meantime
drainage of land went on upon a large scale. Vacated
holdings were added to the other crofts, and in the
course of a few years the people were beyond the
reach of famine from the potato failure. They have
remained so ever since. But it was a time of great
anxiety, great trouble, and no small embarrassment.
The whole rental of the estates affected was absorbed
for more than five years, whilst a sum of £10,000 was
borrowed from Peel's Parliamentary Loan Fund, at

\the rate of 6 per cent., which involved a heavy charge,
so long as increased production was inadequate to
meet it. By the judicious management, however, of
      imwhporomvewmeenetm--plroeymedu,nethraistivgerearterteusrnuslt  --anwdastesutltoi f
Ithose

real
mately brought about, and had the satisfaction of
                                off                                        of  the
Iseeing the loan         paid        at  the                          end
                        years.
statutory period
      --enthtiirretlyy
At the close of the London season of 1846, was
anxious to visit the estates in Mull to see the people
and the works which were then designed, or begun,
for averting famine and for improving the farms and

Icrofts. My brother-in-law, Lord Blantyre, was an

excellent agriculturist, and was anxious to have
such advice as he could give. We therefore proposed
to him and to Lady Blantyre that they should come
with us to Mull and see the beauties of the country.
They entered into the plan with pleasure, and we
Iwere soon ensconced in the farm-house of Knock,

close to the lake and woods where had shot my first
deer, and had spent such a happy day in 1842. The
tenant of the sheep-farm of Knock, Mr. Campbell
Paterson, was an ideal tenant. He had been a banker

1846]  MULL                                287

at Oban, and was expending money on stone dikes
to enclose the comparatively small area of level land
which stretched from the foot of the mountains to

the sea.

  IWe had some excellent fishing in the loch and river,

and shot my first seal at the head of Loch na Keal,
close to the farm-house. But the moment it was shot
it sank, and the question was how to get it. The
water was not deep, but it was full of seaweed. Our
host, however, was equal to the occasion. He marked
the spot, and then, returning home, he took down an

iron curtain-rod, and tied to it a number of fish-hooks.
To each end of the rod he attached a rope. This
apparatus was let down near the spot, and hauled
slowly over it. On raising it we saw the seal shining
through the water, and it was brought easily into the
boat. The wonderful structure of this creature filled
me with interest and admiration. Mr. Paterson

impressed upon me the immense number of salmon
and sea-trout which even a few such creatures must
consume. This was undeniable. But my fondness
for wild animals of all kinds would not allow me to
admit the conclusion to which he pointed, that the
Iwhole of the seals should be destroyed.   liked to see

their strange movements when basking on the rocks
or when following a boat in the sea.
But the lofty sheep-grazings of Ben More and the
inland shores of Loch na Keal were not what we had
come to see. Our principal destination was a part
of Mull called the Ross (or Point), stretching west
ward, close to Iona. There was no direct route to this
particular point, except by an open boat. To row
across would have occupied many hours, and taken
us into very open waters. Our host, however, again
came to the rescue. He had a sailing lugger in the
                          him from time    to Ittimweas  all
bay,   which brought to  the low country.
sorts  of supplies from                                    a
large powerful boat, but entirely without any accom
modation for civilized passengers. He offered it to

288    VISIT TO THE HEBRIDES              [chap, xm

us, and, being in the mood for some roughing and
adventure, we accepted the offer. Sailing down Loch
na Keal, we had the grand ranges of Ben More over
head against the southern sky, whilst down the vista
to the west we came in sight, one after the other, of

       ' All the group of islets gay

        That guard famed Staffa round.'

The day was perfect, and as we emerged from the walls
of  Loch na Keal we   Tfohuendseoaurwsealsvecsalwmi.thinIt a wcaosupalen
of  miles of Staffa.
irresistible temptation to turn a little out of our course,
Iand to visit the famous island and its marvellous cave.

  had seen it, but never tire of seeing it. My wife
and her sister had never been there.      So we     puItt
the lugger's helm about, and steered for   Staffa.
was most enjoyable to have it all to ourselves, instead
of sharing it with a crowd of passengers. The day
was so calm that we landed easily, and walked
upon the causeway of broken columns right into the
cave. There is nothing in the world like it. There
are thousands of sea-precipices a great deal higher.
There are whole miles of basaltic columns in Antrim
and elsewhere higher and more continuous. But
nowhere in the world, so far as we know, is there

anything approaching to the majesty of the great
sea-cave at Staffa. The perfection of the columnar
structure, the high relief in which the columns
stand out from each other, the symmetry of the
sides, the perfection of the central arching, the
wide opening to the ocean swell, the depth inwards
to which that swell reaches between the retreating
columnar walls, the reverberations of the sea, the

pellucid clearness of the water, and the lovely colouring

reflected through it from seaweeds and from encrusting
corallines, make it altogether a scene absolutely unique,
and, on a fine day, gloriously beautiful beyond descrip
tion.
    The noble lines of descriptive poetry in which

1846]                   STAFFA                               289

Sir Walter Scott has dealt with Staffa in ' The Lord of
the Isles ' have with true genius struck the fundamental
note on    worhIictahncyhitasmlleepnregeceusalicacnriodiemcnoptmraelpssacivraiesvnoeenrsns.wiuthIntdaodnuoybestemdneloryet

depends.
sea-cliff
even suggest the power of any of the forces of Nature
working at random, as they seem to     work in        either the
beauty or the awfulness of mountain     forms.
                                                      It strikes
       imagination at  opnocweear--s aasspveecriiatlalyblywraoubguhitldiwngon, dbeurt,
the    not by human
but

not made with hands :

             ' When, as to shame the temples decked,
              By skill of earthly architect,

               Nature herself would seem to raise

              A minster to her Maker's praise.'

It does, therefore, seem a marvellous fact that no
knowledge of the wonders of Staffa had ever reached
the world till it had been visited and described by a

scientific Englishman, Sir Stamford Raffles. It must
have been often seen by the  natives   and   the Norsemen
in their passing boats and   galleys.        was certainly
                                        It
seen by the monks of Iona, because joints of the
columns form part of the     material used    in       ancient
ecclesiastical buildings of  the island.          the  a most
                                             It   was

convenient quarry, only six miles off, and water
carriage all the way. The truth seems to be that the
human eye in those ages was dead to all the wonders
of the physical world.
ouAr fltuegrgear,dealingdhttfuulrnehdourheurpohneatdhetoisloaunrd,dewsetinreagtiaoinne--d
the village  of Bunessan, at the  Ithewaads  of a     short   arm
of the sea   called Loch Laigh.               not     more   than
five miles off, but, unfortunately, the wind was very
light and directly in our teeth, so that we had to make
long tacks, or, as      the skipper called     them, '
streetches,' in order   to make good our                     fine
                                             way. It         was
late before we reached Bunessan, and found a little
inn with very poor accommodation and no kitchen
vol. i.
                                                       19

290       VISIT TO THE HEBRIDES                 [chap, xni

except a  thatched hovel outside the  walls.    But we
were all  young, and some ' roughing            part of
                                      it ' was

our fun.
The Ross, though interesting and curious geologically
and otherwise, and although it has some lovely bays
upon its shores, is not itself picturesque, consisting
largely as it does of low hummocky hills of a fine
red granite. But the views from it are various and
beautiful. Every evening we saw the sun gilding the
columns of Staffa, whilst a magnificent headland of
volcanic terraces, piled up to the height of 1,600 feet,
looked down into our tranquil harbour from the east.
From a very short distance above our house, the eye
ranged on the southern side over wavy distances of
sea to the hills of Colonsay and the triple peaks of
Jura. We visited with the Blantyres the great
granite quarry, out of which Mr. Alan Stevenson had
built the Skerryvore Lighthouse, and were struck with
its absolute silence and desertion, in contrast with the
busy and laborious years during which its beautiful
and faultless blocks had been first blasted and ham
mered to a convenient size, and then embarked on
lighters in a now empty creek.
After the Blantyres had seen enough of the curious
scenery and as curious cooking, they took the steamer

Ifor Iona and went home, whilst my wife and remained
Ibehind, in order that might make myself more
perfectly acquainted with the people and the indi
vidual farms. Works of agricultural improvement,
begun for the relief of famine, were then going on
                                being drained    and
           Bogs were            reconsolidated.
          were being                              In
I Iupon a large scale.                           well

fenced, and holdings
all these operations was intensely interested.
recollect how, the next year, when an old friend of my
father came to visit us, he found me busy draining
a refractory field of clay close to the castle at
Inveraray. He had known me and my pursuits
from my childhood, for he had given me some fine
specimens for my collection of birds, and he said,

ESTATE IMPROVEMENTS                                                291

I' didn't know you cared for this sort of thing.'
IHe was quite right. In my boyhood at Ardencaple

   had never either seen or heard of land improve
ment. My father had other pursuits, and the little
land he possessed that was capable of reclamation he
was content to leave covered with the golden furze.
There can be no doubt whence this taste came to me :

Iit was from my old grandfather, who had died seventeen

years before was born, but who had been one of the

greatest land-improvers of his time. It now became
to me a genuine delight to see land redeemed from
slovenly and ignorant cultivation, and brought under
theItpwowaseraorfairnetepllliegaesnucree  and capital.
                                          to help those  men  who  were
Ictapwaabsleanofextpuernnsiinvge  improved land to good account.
                                  pleasure, as it absorbed for several
Iyears the whole revenue of the estate, out of which
could never afford during these years to devote a
shilling to any mere personal expenditure. On the
other hand, it held out a prospect of a fair ultimate
return, because of the enormous difference between the
produce under the old managment and the produce
under the new. No man can increase his income
honestly, except by conferring some great benefit upon
others. But there is no profession or calling of which
this is more conspicuously true than of land-owning
and farming, since whatever increase of income they
can secure can come from nothing but a direct corre
sponding increase in the supply of human food. As
I Ithis would be a tedious and impossible subject to

resume from year to year, may here state at once that
   have continued to be an improver of land on a large

scale during my whole life, the total sum expended
by me during fifty years having exceeded half a million
pounds sterling. Moreover, it has been paid entirely
out of income, not a shilling having been raised by
loan, except that borrowed to meet the famine, under
Sir Robert Peel's Act, which has long been repaid.

   As it was with my old friend in my youth, who had

                                                         19--2

292  VISIT TO THE HEBRIDES                         [chap, xni

only known me in connection with very different
Ipursuits, so has it been with the public in my later

years. have been known, more or less, in connection
with politics and with literature and with science, but
Inobody has ever noticed or known my work as a land-

improver. And this say, not as a complaint, but
to point out that the same oblivion enwraps the whole
work of the land-owning class, as compared with the
work of the manufacturing and commercial classes.
Their works strike the eye and the imagination. The
growth of cities, the growth of               the  creation of
                                   fleets,  those   and many
great factories, of tall chimneys
                                   --all
other evidences are always in sight. But the drainage
of land is never seen at all, and even farmhouses and
enclosures escape attention. The landlord invests his
thousands mainly underground, and the passing idiot
thinks that his rental is some kind of spontaneous
return for which the owner has done nothing.

CHAPTER XIV

1847-48

DEATPLHORRINDOCFEDMALCYHOONFSUAOSTRIEHT E--RTLO--ITEVIRNISAVITREYRAORFWAOYTRHK--E   QUEEN   AND
                                                                                   BANQUET     TO

IIt was in the middle of this time of economic diffi

 culties and anxieties that succeeded to the dukedom
and estates, by my father's death in April, 1847. A
 man of sweeter nature than my father never breathed.

I have already indicated some elements in my own
Imind and education which have derived from him.

They did not belong to the sphere of either litera
ture or politics, but they did belong to a sphere
much more important. He indoctrinated me deeply
with the love of science, in the highest acceptation
of that word. The lesson he taught of a supreme
regard for accuracy in all observation and in all work
was a lesson inseparably connected with that supreme

Ilove of truth for its own sake which have at least
Idesired to cultivate, and which regard as an inherit

ance from him.
    Soon after my succession to the family estates, a

friend of mine, who was a great agricultural improver,
and an excellent judge of the value of land, offered
to buy the island of Tiree, at a price which repre
sented an income of £1,400 a year. As my returns

Ifrom the estate were then nil, this offer was pecuniarily

a great temptation. But declined the transaction,
influenced largely by my reluctance to diminish
still further the family estates, and also by my liking

                                                                         293

294          DEATH OF MY FATHER                nr[chap,

Ifor the island, ever since had seen its charms in
Ithe summer of 1840, when was enchanted with its
wealth of sky and sea, its long, beautiful bays of
pure white sand, its rich pastures, its air ringing
Iwith the song of skylarks, its multitude of corn

crakes, whose curious cry have always loved, and
its rocks full of shining crystals of felspar and horn

Iblende.

   Besides all this, felt sure that the new proprietor
Iwould deal rather too summarily with the excessive
population.  considered that although in a sense
that  overpopulation was    the  mfayulptreodfetcheessopreso.ple,Ifitthweays
also  in a sense the fault  of

had kept watch, and had fully enforced the rules of
the estate against subdivision, the  eIviclownosiudledrendotithamvey
arisen. On the whole, therefore,
duty to continue my connection of ownership with the
estate and people, and to deal with the problem of

Ioverpopulation by such voluntary emigration as
could persuade the people to adopt, and by such
permanent rules of management as would compel the
Iidle or incompetent to make way for others. For this

purpose instructed my local agents to turn out no
tenant who continued to pay those reasonable rents
which had been determined a good deal by custom,
founded on the stock which each possession could
support, and in all cases to add any holdings vacated
to the nearest neighbour who could manage an enlarged
Iholding.    instructed them never to put up vacated
Icrofts to competition.     thus sacrificed    the   hIiglaheidr
                       be   tempted to offer,   but
rents which men might
the foundation for larger and more comfortable farms
and an improved class of tenants. This system was
steadily pursued for forty years, when it was arrested,
if not wholly stopped, by the Crofter Act. Fortunately,
however, it had been in operation so long that it had
already secured such an improved condition of the
people that no distress has ever since afflicted that
island, whilst other islands of the Hebrides have had.

1847]  CRUISING OFF THE WEST COAST         295

seasons of sore distress when public subscriptions were
required to relieve them.
On my father's death, we broke up the establishment
at Inveraray, and retired to our own quiet house at
Rosneath, where we remained until the autumn, when
we were anxious to have a change, and arranged with the
Sutherlands to visit them at Dunrobin. Our plan was
to join the Duke, who then had a yacht, at Portree in
Skye, and to go with him by sea to Lochinver, on the
west coast of his county. From that point we were to
post by land across the county to Dunrobin. Some
time before we started, we heard a vague report that
the Queen might possibly visit the west coast of
Scotland, and   that, if  so, Her Majesty  might wish to
see Inveraray.            however, a mere  rumour, which
                 It was,
we did not think very probable. We therefore carried
out our plan, by taking the public steamer from Oban
to Portree. As far as the Point of Ardnamurchan, this
passage was well known to me, but beyond that point
it was all new. We were delighted with the scenery,
and at one spot, between Skye and the mainland, near
the mouth of Loch Hourn, we saw an effect of light
and shadow on the sea and on some boats which has
Iremained in my memory ever since as the most

beautiful thing of the kind have ever seen. We
reached Portree late at night, but were soon on board
the Ondine schooner yacht, where we found the Duke
Iof Sutherland. Next morning we were off at day

break, and on coming on deck found we were
sailing fast before a fair wind past the beautiful
and very peculiar mountains of Western Ross and
Sutherland. We reached Lochinver early in the

Iday, and was delighted with a form and structure
Iof Highland scenery the like of which had never

seen before. But hardly had we been settled for
more than a day in Assynt, when the post brought
us letters from the Duchess of Sutherland to say that
the rumour about the Queen was no longer doubtful,
but that it had been settled that Her Majesty was

296 VISIT OF THE QUEEN AND PRINCE CONSORT [chap, xiv

to visit the West of Scotland, and wished to see

Inveraray.
There was nothing for us to do but to retrace our
steps as fast as we could. We embarked again in the
Ondine, and were wafted back to Portree, where we
caught the steamer for Oban, and drove post-haste to
Inveraray. We heard that the Queen's time could
not afford more than a mere call, rather than a visit,
and that Her Majesty could only spend some two or
three hours at Inveraray. This, of course, limited our
reception duties to a luncheon and a drive. But we had
no establishment at all at that moment, and hardly
knew how we could meet the occasion. From all
difficulties on this head, however, we were speedily
relieved by the unfailing affection and kindness of my
dear mother-in-law, who wrote to us that she would
Icome herself with as many servants as could be needed.

  gave notice at once to a large number of the county
Igentlemen, who responded to our invitation to meet
the Sovereign with a heartiness which  remember
and record with gratitude. They came in large
numbers in Highland dress, and made a gallant show.
On the 18th of August the Queen's squadron of five
warships and the royal yacht came steaming up the
reaches of Loch Fyne, and, with the royal standard
flying at the main of the leading vessel, afforded a
beautiful sight. The quay was lined by Highland
gentlemen, who also stood as a guard round the table
at which Her Majesty and the Prince Consort, with
the suite, were seated. After luncheon we drove the
Queen and Prince, with the Duchess of Sutherland, up
Glenshira, thus showing Her Majesty some of our finest
trees and avenues and the vistas of a very peculiar
and beautiful valley. German Princes know fine
woods when they see them. Prince Albert was much
struck with our silver firs, which are, indeed, among
the very finest in Scotland, many of them exceeding
120 feet in height, with a girth of from 13 to 20 feet.
The drive ended at the pier, and there we again

OS
<

  This,
«t the

x


1847]              A DRIVE TO DUNROBIN                                297

attended Her Majesty on her re-embarkation, and,
with the assembled gentlemen of the county and of
the place, wished Her Majesty a prosperous prolonga
tion of her cruise round the western coasts.
We had no idea, however, of giving up our visit
to Sutherland. We should naturally have taken the
route by the Caledonian Canal to Inverness, but the
Duchess intended, as usual, to post all the way to
sDaumnerobcianr,riaagned--iannvitoefdferusweto   travel   with her    in the
                                                joyfully
                                                           accepted,    since
to both of us every pleasure in life was made more
pleasant by her society. Her abounding vitality, her
intense enjoyment in, and quick eye for, beauty of
every kind, and, last not least, her affectionate nature,
made companionship with her a perpetual delight.
To travel in an open carriage through a beautiful
country was always a great enjoyment to me, but the
enjoyment was doubled under such conditions. We
had a very pleasant journey, going to Taymouth the
first night, and there renewing the memories of our
first meeting five years before. By beautiful Killie-
crankie we took the great road to Inverness, and thence
to Sutherland, by Dingwall and the shores of the
Cromarty Firth. The east coast of Sutherland is

Ianother world from the western coast, of which had

only a glimpse at Lochinver. It is hardly Highland
in character. The hills are low and rounded, whilst

Igreat stretches of level land intervene between them
and the sea.  -- pBeurtchedwaosn  delighted with the situation
of Dunrobin                       the top of an old coast-line,
overlooking the open sea, and having below the
windows some good trees, with a lovely old-fashioned
garden. At night the column of light cast by the
moon    on such a           seen from such an elevation,
really  glorious.  sIeta,  is one of the peculiarities of             was
                                                                      the
Iplace, of which my wife had often told me, and was
not disappointed.
After a most happy visit in Sutherland for a few
weeks, we returned South and rejoined our children

298  BANQUET TO LORD DALHOUSIE  [chap. XI?

Iat Rosneath. Very soon thereafter was called upon
to discharge a duty which was my first introduction to
the public in a new capacity. The occasion was a
remarkable one. Among the members of both Houses

Iof Parliament who used to take notice of me when
was a constant attendant  ofatgrodewbinatgesdisintinc1t8i4o1n-1--84m3y,
there was one young man
cousin, the Earl of Dalhousie. He had always been
most kind to me, and we used to have frequent talks
for a few minutes at the steps of the throne in the
House of Lords when he was Lord Ramsay. He was
a valued member of Sir Robert Peel's Administration,
in which he held the important post of President of
the Board of Trade, at a time when the great rush
of railway enterprise cast upon that department the

solution of many difficult problems. In this work
he earned a great reputation as a man of business
of remarkable ability. When in 1847 the Governor-
Generalship of India fell vacant, the Whig Govern
ment was antecedently disposed to conciliate the
Peelite party, which was then standing by them in
defence of Free Trade. They therefore offered this
great office to Lord Dalhousie, and he was advised to

accept it by all his political friends. Before leaving
England it was proposed to give him a banquet
in Edinburgh, which men of all parties were to
Iattend. An invitation came to me to be present at

this banquet on September 14th, 1847. At first was
disposed to decline the invitation, being then   Ionwasa
visit to my father's widow at Ardencaple, where
enjoying the pleasures of memory in the haunts of my
boyhood. My wife, however, with a true woman's

Iinstinct, strongly urged me to go, and went. When
I repaired to an office where the tickets were issued,
my extremely youthful appearance led to some ques

Itions being put to me, and on giving my name saw
Ithe surprise excited. was, however, assigned a place
at the banquet next to Lord Dalhousie, and at his right
hand. The chairman was the Duke of Buccleuch.

                LORD DALHOUSIE                            299

It was an immense assemblage. It included men
of all parties in the State, although, perhaps, the Con
servative element predominated, since Lord Dalhousie
had, as Lord Ramsay, been well known in Edinburgh
during his contests for the seat. The dining-tables
stretched across a great hall from one platform to
another, and faces at either end were barely recog
nisable from  the other. The   d'uTthyeasHsiogunseed  to
to respond    to the toast of                         of  me was

                                                          Lords.'

Ordinarily this is a formal toast, and my very recent
succession to the peerage would have made it natural
for me to treat it formally and as shortly as possible.

I IYet felt this to be impossible. liked Lord Dalhousie,
Iand was really somewhat excited by the success of
the only relation of my mother's who had come across
my observation in the paths of public life. On the

Iother hand, if diverged from the task assigned to me,
I was in danger of trespassing on the ' toast of the

evening ' and forestalling the duty of the chairman.
Great audiences, expecting important speeches as the
Imain business of the day, are apt to be impatient of
preliminary formalities.  felt that nothing would
IIsave me from a position of some awkwardness except

success. What did say must say well, so that the
I IIexecution should cover what might be open to criticism
in the design.  was therefore very nervous before
rising, but when sat down was greatly encouraged
by the kind applause with which my short speech*

   * [Note by Editor. --The conclusion of the speech alluded to is

here inserted.

   After replying to the toast of ' The House of Lords,' the Duke,

addressing the chairman, said :

' And now, my Lord Duke, having discharged, however im

perfectly, the duty which has been imposed upon me by the
position I have the honour to hold, I trust I may be allowed to
Itake up another task more grateful to my own feelings.
                                                          trust

I may be allowed to add my humble voice of sincere and hearty
congratulation to one whom I am proud to call my noble friend

300       BANQUET TO LORD DALHOUSIE                            [chap, siv

was received, but still more so when Lord Dalhousie,

turning to me, said :
   ' Well, Argyll, you see you have won a great
success. Allow me to give you one word of advice.
Don't be in a hurry to speak when you go to the
House, and don't speak too often. But when any
question comes up which you feel you really under
stand, and on which you have something really to
Isay, step out  into the debate and join in it,                and
                                                               you  then
by the time     come back from India I'll find                      high

enough.'

and kinsman, on the occasion which we are met to celebrate to-night.
To be deemed capable of the government of British India by a

man's own political party is an honour and a distinction of no

mean kind. But to be judged, not by his own party, but by all
parties, by the universal acclamations of all his countrymen -- this

is the honour enjoyed by my noble friend to-night. Nor would

I omit to congratulate my noble friend on the nature of that
appointment in itself. Of all the offices connected with the

government of this great Empire and of its vast dependencies,

there is none, in my opinion, to be compared with this. My noble

friend does not go out, as another eminent Scotsman has lately

done (Lord Elgin as Governor-General of Canada), to preside over
a people instinct with the energies of the Saxon race, whose

progress nothing can impede and no individual exertions can well
accelerate. He does not go out to the task -- more difficult, as it
seems to me, than pleasing-- of endeavouring to reconcile the forms

and principles of monarchical government with the democratic

tendencies of a great rising colony. In India we rule over a

people inferior to ourselves, indeed, in knowledge, civilization and
                                   I
religion, but equal to ourselves,      do believe, in all the   capabilities
                                      political, social, and   religious --a
of human improvement--moral,

people full of the splendid germs of Eastern genius and intellect.

It is with them that the influence of the great and good among

us may bear glorious fruit. My noble friend leaves his own

country with the blessings and the prayers of all who know
him. We trust he will return to it again with the blessings and
the prayers of those millions over whom he is now called to rule.']

1848] I TAKE MY SEAT IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS 301

II
After         the  banquet      returned to  Rosneath, where
              the  rest of the  autumn and   all the winter at
spent
Iour happy and beautiful home. This seems the fitting
Iplace to mention a subject to which need not recur.

   succeeded to the estates under conditions of con
siderable difficulty. My uncle had left a large debt,
which my father had not been able to diminish. Under

Ithese circumstances, had to live at a very moderate
Irate of expenditure, especially as determined to carry
on all improvements out of revenue, and not out of

loans chargeable on the estate. In this rather difficult

Istruggle was heartily seconded by my wife, to whom
Iin this matter owe a tribute of gratitude.
  IAt the opening of the session of 1848 we went up

to town, and took my seat in the House of Lords as
Baron Sundridge, an English barony which had been
conferred              gnreaanrdfaatphlearc,e--thCeoonmambee  Bbeainnkg--thwahticohf
a village      on my

              in Kent
had belonged to his brother, Lord Frederick Campbell.
This was my formal title in the House of Lords, and
Iunder this name, during thirty years,
                                                              was always
Icalled to speak by the Clerk at the Table.

   On taking my seat, was somewhat puzzled where
Ito sit. Parties are less rigidly separated in the Lords

than in the Commons ; but, still, did not wish to sit
oI nhathde a  Whig    side of  the House. Although a          Peelite,
               great  respect  and admiration for Lord        Derby,

Iand, rather for the sake of being sufficiently near to

hear him well, took my first seat immediately behind
him. The cordiality of his reception when he saw me
convinced me that he put an interpretation upon my

Idoing this which by no means intended. There
I Iafter drew off, and tried the cross-benches. But
felt at once that it would be impossible to speak with
Iany comfort from that position, which is the worst in
the House.            therefore settled on what is called the
' Duke's bench,' next the Woolsack, on the left of the

IThrone. That is the bench on which have sat all
Imy life, except, of course, when in office. There

302                LITERARY WORK               [chap, jot

found, an invariable occupant of it, the Earl of Aber

Ideen, and thus, from sitting constantly beside him,
formed an intimate friendship, which till his death
was one of the happinesses of my life. There was no
Iman in the House against whom had originally a
Igreater prejudice.  had attributed to him more than

Ito any other the catastrophe of the disruption of the
Church of Scotland.      had a general   --nootbiostninathteatanhde
was what the Scots call  a ' dour ' man
Inarrow-minded. This impression melted away like

snow in a thaw when came to know him personally.
He was, indeed, silent and reserved, but his voice, when
he did speak, was unmistakably the voice of sincerity
and truth. With an immense knowledge of men and of
affairs, he possessed penetrating observation, with the
calmest and most measured judgment. There was an
indefinable charm in him which stole upon me, gradually
at first, but which took entire possession of me at last.
Absolute sincerity and truthfulness of character was
Ithe fundamental note in a perfect harmony.
                                               became
Istrongly attached to him, and was gratified to find
Ithat he liked me.
   Mindful of Dalhousie's advice,   did not speak at
all for several months. My first speech was on the
Bill for the admission of Jews to Parliament, by
                         that part
exempting    them from   the true    of the Parliamentary
oath which    invoked '             faith of a Christian.'
This  Bill had been repeatedly passed by
and   always thrown out by the Lords.     the   Commons,
                                               was a very
                                          It
Iunfavourable opportunity for me, because could not
Ibe enthusiastic either way.        had some difficulty in
Imaking up my mind how to vote. There were several

arguments on both sides which rejected altogether.
Arnold's opinions  Lhiabdernaolt--baelemnowstitahoRuatdiincfalule--ncoen
me. Although a                                                            upon
                                                                          most

Iquestions, he had been an eager opponent of this
concession.  had never, indeed, accepted Arnold's
Idoctrine of the identity of Church and State. But,

on the other hand, had not submitted to the

1848]    A YEAR OF REVOLUTION                                               303

axiom that, under no circumstances, had the State
                     religious faith a condition     of the
a right  to make    citizenship. Neither could    I   admit
highest  rights of
Macaulay's dictum that Christianity had no more to
Ido with legislation than with ' cobbling.'       felt and
saw that our noble system of laws was founded on the

Iteachings of Christianity. So far, therefore, was in
Ifavour of Arnold's pleas for exclusion. On the other

hand, felt that, practically, theological arguments had
become alien to the work of legislation, and that the
banishment of these from debates was due mainly to
the divisions of Christians between themselves, so that
Ia small element of Jewish members would practically
make no difference in the matter.               was therefore in

favour of leaving constituencies free to exercise their
own    judgment as to the religion of their
       needless to say that this was a position  members.
It is                                            unfavour
able to effective speaking, because unfavourable to
the energy of strong convictions. My speech was
therefore short, but it was real as far as it went ; it
was fairly well delivered, and it made, on the whole, a
favourable impression on the House.
The year 1848 was the year of the fall of the French
monarchy and of an epidemic of revolutionary violence
over almost the whole of Europe. Every throne was
shaken except our own and those of Russia and
Belgium. The Chartists thought they could imitate the
Continental mobs, and had the folly to announce a mass
meeting on Kennington Common for the 10th of April.
The Duke of Wellington knew how to take advantage
of the tactical mistake which placed the Thames and
its bridges between the mob and their objective, the
Houses of Parliament and offices of Government.

He had troops concealed everywhere where they
cwohuoldledpotshseibmlyobb--e  required ; but   t--heflinvcahpeodurfirnogm  fool
                               Fergus O'Connor                              any
contest. The whole thing turned out a ridiculous
fiasco. The alarm had been so great that an immense
number of the well-to-do classes had offered their

304                             LITERARY WORK                   [chap, xiv

services to the Government as special constables, and
were drilled in squads in various convenient places.
One incident occurred which was very comical to me.
My old travelling friend, the doctor, was in London,
and was one of those who volunteered. He was tall
and thin, with weak legs, which could hardly have
stood in a scrimmage with the mob. On the drill-
ground he found himself alongside of a very short man
with an immense nose, and small, cunning-looking eyes.
On inquiry, he found to his surprise that this ugly
little man was Prince Louis Napoleon, at that time
only known by his grotesque invasion of France with
a captive eagle, but who was destined, before the year
was ended, to be the elected President of the new
French Republic, with his foot evidently planted on
the steps of an imperial throne.
   We did not leave our quiet home at Rosneath during
the earlier months of the year, and it was difficult in
the peacefulness of             its  woods and waters, and in sight
of the calm outlines             of   its ' everlasting hills,' to realize

the noise of the voices outside and the tumults of the
people. But when we went to town there were two
figures which, owing to the Revolutions, passed across
my stage of vision, and which remain impressed upon
my memory. One was the old exiled King, Louis
Philippe ; the other was the young Prince Frederick,
Ieldest son of the Crown Prince of Prussia. The first

of these saw when we went with the Duchess of
IStutihsercluarniodustowphaayt  our respects to him at Claremont.
                                an atmosphere of sorrow envelops
certain places which have been the scene of some
      mournful death.                18T1h7e--sPirxincyeesasrs  Charlotte
     at Claremont in                                             before
peculiarly

Ihad died
Iwas born, and ten years before could well have
really understood the universal mourning which that

Itragic death had caused. And yet it is a fact that
Idid remember the bated breath with which, in my

childhood, had heard my father and other relatives
speak of that cruel blow to a nation's love and to a

1848]            THE KING OF PRUSSIA                                    305

nation's hopes.  --Arespaldenindidsoamnedwmhaotstlaptaetrheyteicarsse--rmhoand
of Dr. Chalmers
I Ino doubt left its effect upon me. And so it was that,

when went to Claremont, was a great deal more
curious to see the house and place than to see the old
exile to whom the still living husband of the Princess
Charlotte, King Leopold, had assigned it as a refuge.
The ex-King received us very courteously. But he
was a most unimpressive old man. His personal
history had indeed been an honourable one. He had
supported himself through many years of poverty and
Iexile, and as King he      had at   leI acsotucldomnomtithteedlp  no con
                            confess                                looking
spicuous fault. But
at him as the son and representative of that Egalite
of the Revolution who had had the                         Itocovuoltde  for
the death of his cousin, King Louis             baseness                not

                                                XVI.
wish success to a dynasty with such a terrible blot on
its escutcheon. His Queen was as full of dignity and
distinction in her manners and in her face as he was
deficient in both.

  I IThe other figure have referred to as one which
encountered at this time was of a very different type.
Nowhere had lawless mobs been more violent than in
Berlin. The reigning King was a well-meaning but
a weak and impulsive man, bending before every wind

that blew. In moments of revolution, when authority
is at an end and anarchy reigns supreme, every con
stituted Government must depend on its armed force.
And the military were marched into Berlin. But just
when they were called upon to act, the King gave way,
and they were ordered to retire before an armed mob.
Of course the whole army felt it bitterly. Young Prince
Frederick, the second heir to the throne, full of the
                            ----nwoaws heornee
spirit  of his  profession                      more proud and     sen
sitive  than    in Prussia                       of the officers   who
Ithought themselves exposed to a dishonour. He came

to England, and was presented to him at a large
party at Stafford House. He was then a beautiful
youth, with a charming countenance and the most
vol. i.
                                                          20

306           LITERARY WORK                             [chap. En

Inoble aspect. Of course spoke to him sympathetically,
Ibecause all the world was wondering at and deploring
the weakness of his uncle.   --of thiftoa.utnhdHeetfhetalottlditnhcmelineye--oduanntgod
Prince could hardly speak
a soldier could say no more
break his sword. This is the last symbol of a military
humiliation.

   Among our first guests after we established ourselves

at Inveraray were the Earl of Ellesmere, with his wife
and daughters. His society was one of my greatest
pleasures, partly from the strong affection between
him and my wife, but not less on account of my
own appreciation of his many charming qualities.

Full of poetry and of art, with an intense love of
Nature and of the natural sciences, he had that
pleasant element of wonder which, if it sometimes
tends a little to credulity, is not only natural, but
            in creatures                        are, '
legitimate  not realized  's--ucchreaastuwrees          moving about
in worlds                                        that   must be per
petually stupid if they do not habitually wonder. At
that time he was much excited about the unabated
chaos of the Continental Revolutions. The enlightened
course he took in supporting Sir Robert Peel, when so
many deserted him, showed that he was no old-fashioned
ITory. But he hated mob rule, as every man ought
to hate it, and well      recollect his first   observation to
me after entering our                           to me that the
                          door : ' It seems
devil has got a lease of the world.'
   However, we soon escaped from the odious spectacle

then presented by politics on the Continent. It
happened to be a glorious autumn in the Highlands.
Ellesmere was enchanted by our woods and waters. By a
happy circumstance, too, the upper reaches of Loch Fyne
ws1h0e0orealbthooeaf ntsh,--earsrtioonfgt,ecanwtcihnhicthhtohsebemro.duagyhTst,hveaisilstaaeridglsebyoflfeaentth--imisamlmleanrosgseet
fleet, as they unmoored from the creeks and stole out
to set their nets in the sunset lights, were really a vision
of glory, and it was a great pleasure to me to see the

1848]          POWER OF ABSTRACTION                              307

Iintense enjoyment of it in the large, dark, contemplative
eyes of ' Uncle Francis.'  could not help observing
in him one curious example of the power of associa
       The            onforAthregrynllshcioruentiisesw. ideIlty
tion.  that  scenery                                             different
from         of the                                              is much

greener, more wooded, less predominantly heathery
or rocky. Ellesmere had an eye too highly cultivated
not to appreciate the more fertile but less familiar
aspect of our south-western coasts. But there was
one drive near Inveraray which for several miles was
almost destitute of trees, whilst the pastoral surfaces
were comparatively poor. He saw at once the greater
likeness to his native Sutherland, and one gnarled
oak-stem, twisting its crooked way from out of the
splintered fragments of a huge rock, seemed to give him
more lively pleasure than all the splendid beeches and
chestnuts of which we were specially proud.
   But the years 1847 and 1848 produced other fruits

in my life than those hitherto mentioned. It then
became a habit with me, which has never been wholly
abandoned, to have some literary work on hand, lying
behind, as it were, all other avocations, and occupying
very often a large portion of my thoughts, even in the

Imidst of pleasures and amusements. Then, also,
acquired a power and habit of abstraction which
enabled me during my whole life to dispense entirely
Iwith any separate room for my own study, even when
actually writing.     always wrote in the same room
in which my wife sat with her children. My work of
composition, so far as thinking is concerned, was
carried on at all times and all seasons, and the actual
writing was accomplished with ease in the quiet
Ievenings which we generally enjoyed in a retired
country life.  never could set myself down alone, to
work at anything for a definite time. My mind had
the habit of being steeped in some one subject of
recurring contemplation, and very often while fishing

Ior shooting, or simply enjoying beautiful scenery,
have found myself busy thinking how best to express

                                             20--2

308                   LITERARY WORK                     [CHAP. XIV

some unobserved distinction or to convey some im
Iportant argument.     buwtasI  never                   disturbed by hearing
                                would                   have been disturbed,
family conversation,
I Ion the contrary, if had been left alone.             mention
                                                        liteItrarayccowuonrtsk
Ithis feature in    my intellectual and
because     rather
                     think it is peculiar.
                                bwertittetre-nknoown nsubpjuercstusitsw. hichI
for my having repeatedly
seemed remote from my           it as a method, because it
have no boast to make of                                as such. On the con
wtraasryn, eIvehravdeeliobfeterantewlyonaddeorepdtedat  and envied the power
possessed by many men of sitting down at a given
hour and spending a given time                          upon some definite
literary work, and then dismissing
                                                        it from their minds
Itill the hour returns. But see that my own looser
Ihabit had at least some great advantages.                               was

In--wehvtiocehrfiullinsudpkenraoawgninvyentaestmim' ppteaadtaidnoindngat.'ogiwverintaemnufomnrobtwerrciotoinnfsgcp'iasoguesssak--oef
having written a single line merely to fill up space, or
to serve any other purpose than the expression of
some definite idea, contributing to the understanding
of the subject in hand. This is an invaluable result,
            in all writings of a                         controversial    kind,
especially  tends to keep up the                        impression of    truth

because it
fulness and sincerity, upon which all persuasiveness

Iabsolutely depends.
      have introduced this subject here, not only because
Iof its importance as a biographical detail, but because
  have now to explain my first appearance as an author
in any form more serious than a pamphlet. Ever
Isince my reading and  reinfleSctciootnlas nodn--thtehaqtueiss,tiofnosr  raised
                                                                          more
by the Reformation     had realized that those questions
than seven years--
Iwere far wider than the mere local controversy in
which       had felt  called upon to                    oef nagallges.ubjeTchtsos--e
questions   cut deep  into the largest
namely, the nature and constitution of the Church of
Christ. The air of those years was full of movement,

1848]     THE OXFORD MOVEMENT                        309

and even of excitement, upon questions which all
Iultimately turned on that fundamental problem.
Ihave already mentioned the interest                 felt in the
          voienwCshoufrcAhrnaonldd.StaWteh,eIn
peculiar                                         Gladstone published
his book
                                                began reading it with
eagerness, and then dropped it with something very
like disgust. Its narrow Anglicanism was what struck
me most. High-sounding general principles tied down
to purely provincial applications ; those principles
pleaded just in so far as they might cover the particular
Church to which the writer belonged, and then aban
doned when                                           of any com
                                                      saw in that
Imunity other
          they  whiosulodwnc--ovtehristhweascaaslel
          than
Icelebrated book. In 1845 had seen the author of
it resigning his seat in Peel's Government because he
Icould not by his vote support his own principles. Then
   had watched from the beginning the progress of the
Oxford Movement, noting especially that its central
idea was a theory on the nature and authority of the
Church which differed from that of Rome in nothing
except in the absence of a central authority or head.
I had watched the secessions to Rome which carried
Ioff so

dered
       many leaders  of the Movement,           and   had won
       why this was                             was  a book by
                     wondered at. It
a certain Bishop Sage, written in this sense, which
fired the train that had long been laid in my mind,
ready to catch when some spark should fall upon it.

I had an inborn tendency to write, and throughout
Ilife have found it to be a most powerful instrument
of self-education. We cannot explain our ideas to
other men without a strong and continuous effort to
Imake them clear and definite to ourselves.          felt

much dissatisfaction with many current impressions
of the doctrines and the nature of the Christian Church
which were really fundamental in the results of the

IScottish Reformation. The views took of them did
Inot coincide with those of any party, and yet saw
that they were securely founded on the unquestionable
facts of history, whilst they threw an important light

310      LITERARY WORK                              [CHAP. XIV

on  the  difficulties of  otiutlreo--w'nPrtiemsbey. terTyherEexfoarme,inesedizi'n--g
on   an   appropriate

Iwhich was supplied to me by the controversial essay

of Bishop Sage, began in 1847 to embody my thoughts
in an article, intended for the Edinburgh Review. After
my usual manner of working, it occupied all the
moments of my time not otherwise engaged during
1847 and part of 1848. On sending it to the then
Ieditor of the Edinburgh Review, Mr. Macvey Napier,
   received a very kind reply, expressing the greatest
interest in my paper, and paying high compliments to
its literary merits, but explaining that it was not
quite suitable for his Review, and strongly advising
me not to cut it down, but to expand it and publish
Iit in a separate form. This advice entirely harmonized
with my own views,        and      accordingly set  to work
to complete the essay     and  to widen its scope.
                                                      It was
published in 1848, under the title ' Presbytery Ex
amined : An Essay, Critical and Historical, on the
Ecclesiastical History of Scotland since the Refor
I Imation.'

   The main propositions which
                                     think  established
in this essay were these : that partly out of the his
torical circumstances under which the Reformation
took place in Scotland, and partly out of a careful
and deliberate interpretation of the New Testament
narratives and teaching, the Scottish Reformers evolved
and   established a system  which    is unique in Europe.
      was the publication   of this  book in 1848 that first
  It
brought me into personal relations with Gladstone.
As his book on a kindred theme had been reviewed
by Macaulay in the Edinburgh Review, so Gladstone
determined to review my very different opinions in
the Quarterly. This he did in an anonymous article,
which, however, was known to be by him. Of course
such a review in that great organ of literary opinion,
and by such a distinguished writer, was in itself a
tribute to the book having at least some relative im
portance ; but Gladstone's paper went beyond this.

1848]                        MR. GLADSTONE                                                                                   311

It was not only most courteous to me personally, but

it was highly complimentary to the literary merits of
Imy essay. It was not wonderful that on some points
he misunderstood my position.                 therefore ventured
Ito addresshimrecbeyiveledttea r,mwositthchsoamraecteexripsltaicnartieopnlsy.--nToot

this letter
fully admitting, yet not denying, the authorship, and
           the right         of                                         to defend
asserting  incognito.            Iatnownaysmopursobaaubtlheo, rshheip  said, that

its own
Ineither a full admission nor a complete denial might
represent the truth.             understood this mysterious
language to refer to cases in which the editor of a
Ireview cuts out, or even inserts, passages in a way to

alter the character of a paper. But knew that no
such tricks could possibly be played by the editor
of the Quarterly in dealing with the writings of a
man like Gladstone. The article was obviously and
Inotoriously his, and the rest of his reply practically

owned it. have no recollection now of the points in
question between us, but the rather gratuitous intro
duction of such an ambiguous suggestion has re
mained vividly impressed upon my memory.

  IOn my return to London in the spring of 1849,
called upon Gladstone for the first time. He was most
IkmoninomdCheaunnrtdc. hcoBquurutetesotIiuosmn,saaynI dansevwliekerelldfeehlxtipmliatpinweorhsretohrneawlalyhtilofernocmteo  that
                                                                                                                             that
                                                                                                                             talk
Iwith him. That was the one subject on which always
realized that there was a fundamental indelibility in
his opinions, and an equally fundamental indelibility
in mine. He instinctively disliked the Church of Scot
land far more keenly than he disliked the Presbyterian
system when not recognised by the State. On the
Iother hand, although            never        EapisPcroepsablyiatenri--anthaint
                                 he was  was
the same sense in which                   an
Iis to say, although never could regard our local
oebcclilgeastiaiosntic--alI  system as one of Divine and universal
                             revolted against the Anglican pretensions
which made a corresponding claim in their own favour,

312                     LITERARY WORK                   [CHAP. XIV

and which even made the whole system of the Chris
tian Church dependent on one method of appointing
     rank  or order in  its
           said of me   by   ministry.
      was                    a critic in
IoneIt
                                          later  years  that
Iwas ' a born controversialist,' and it is true that
have been engaged in many controversies during my
Ilife ; but never was a controversialist in personal
Idiscussion. On the contrary,     habitually avoided
Iit, and during the many

the most intimate footing
                                  years in which  I      was on
                                  with Gladstone      never felt
the least temptation to enter with him on ' Church
I IPrinciples.' When published my book in 1848,
Ifelt that on this subject had had my say. From
Itshuabtjecdtsat--e to  turned my literary attention  to other
                        the advance of the physical   sciences,

and to the bearing of the new philosophy, to which
they were giving birth, upon the older problems of
the world and upon the fundamental principles of
IChristian belief.      left the field of mere ecclesiastical
Icontroversy with                 felt how

and unreasonable
                        delight.                  uwnreereas--onhiongw
                        the disputants generally
Idominated by personal associations, by clap-trap

words and phrases, and by party antagonisms. have
lived to see a good many of the opinions expressed in
Imy essay of 1848 receive the sanction of events and of

high authority. In Scotland have seen the Estab
lished Church attain a great revival, because it has
been found to have retained all the freedom needed in
Ithe independent exercise of its spiritual discipline and
jurisdiction.           have seen a marked disposition to
I Ienter upon those temperate reforms of its worship
which then ventured to recommend.                     have seen

probably the most learned man who has worn a mitre
in the Church of England since the Reformation
publish a paper on the nature of the Christian ministry

Iwhich corresponds closely with the view to which
had been then led, and which emphatically denies to
Ithe Christian Church the possession of any sacrificing
priesthood.             have also lived to see a recrudescence

1848]  RELIGIOUS CHANGES  313

Iof the Romanizing tendency which followed the Oxford

Movement. resume, therefore, with satisfaction, the

Inarrative of my life, at a time when it took a some

what new direction, and when left behind me a class
of controversy which is only too apt to narrow the
mind and to end in no valuable result .

                  CHAPTER XV

                  1849-51

THE  RYLANHDEBCRAIDSEES----EWXHINIBTIETRIONIN  OF 1851 --VISIT  TO  THE

                                                 EDINBURGH

A good deal of    mayndsp1a8re50t--imweasdumriuncgh  the two follow
                                                      and most dis
ing years-- 1849
            taken up with      caacsceidoefntp. ersIotniasl
agreeably   into my hands   a                                 grievance
which fell                                                   so entirely
                           by
Iunconnected with any general question of future

interest that should be disposed to pass it over alto
gether, were it not for circumstances which cast a
curious light on the peculiar characteristics of several
distinguished men. A gentleman of the name of
Ryland had been appointed by the Crown to a lucrative
office in Canada before the union of the Provinces,

and before the concession of self-government to the
colony. Colonial Governments never have the same
feelings of consideration for private rights which
prevail at home ; and the new Government in Canada
proceeded to deal with Mr. Ryland' s office in a manner
which was almost ruinous to him. After vain appeals
to their justice and consideration, he came to England,
urging that his office had been held under the Imperial
Crown, and that the honour of that Crown was in
volved in due compensation being paid to him, if
political necessities had rendered inevitable the changes
from which he suffered. On coming to London, he
placed his case in the hands of Lord Lyndhurst, whose
American origin, added to his great reputation as a

                           314

1849]      THE BYLAND CASE                                      315

speaker, made him naturally occur to all who came
from the other side of the Atlantic. Lyndhurst was
now getting to be a very old man, and he was naturally
indisposed to take new work in hand. But he read
Ryland's papers, expressed a favourable opinion of
the justice of his claim, and recommended him to
Icome to me. Having a great respect and admiration
for Lord   Lyndhurst, read the papers, and,                     aIltfheoltugsho
disliking  extremely the nature of the work,
           tthreeatgerdossthaintjuIsttiocled  with         Mr. Ryland
                                              him   which  do whatever
strongly                                            would

Ihad been
I could on his behalf. After prolonged communica
Itions with the Colonial Office,                    found that Lord
Grey, long better known as Lord Howick, who was
then Colonial Minister, was intractably obstinate and
unreasonable. There was nothing to be done with
him. My only recourse, then, was to bring the case
before the House of Lords and move a Resolution or
an Address to the Crown, recommending a favourable

Iconsideration of Mr. Ryland's case. Of course had
no chance of succeeding in this without the help
Iof some political leader in the House.
                                                                applied
to Lord Derby, laying the case before him. At
that time the political future was very uncertain,
and the leaders of both parties were not indisposed to

Iconciliate or secure independent members such as
then was. Lord Derby finally promised to support
me ; but there was one man whose support or approba
tion would have been worth that of all others put
together, and that man was the Duke of Wellington.
He was nearly all-powerful in the House of Lords,
and every motion having his vote would have carried
Ia weight which no mere majority could give.                    there
Ifore determined to

could do with him.
           asJuksftorasanI                    interview, and    try what
                                              was full of this   intention,
I happened to meet him at an evening party in the
house of my old friends, Lord and Lady Wemyss.

IOn my approaching, confess with some fear and
Itrembling, the old Duke saw that wished to speak

316          THE RYLAND CASE                     [chap. XV

to him, and at once put his hand on my shoulder as
I Ia kindly invitation to do so. ' Duke,'
                                                 said, '

am very anxious to have a few minutes' conversation
with you on a public matter, and if you would be so

Ikind as to name any hour that is most convenient,
should make a point of attending at Apsley House.'
His reply was prompt. ' I'll call on you to-morrow
Iat twelve o'clock at Stafford House.' Of course
Ireplied as promptly : ' Oh no, Duke, can't allow
Ithat.  must go to you, and not you to me. I'll call
at Apsley House at whatever hour you name.' ' Very
well,' he answered ; ' then, come to me to-morrow at
I Ieleven o'clock.'
Ipunctual.             need not say was absolutely
             was shown into a large room on the
ground-floor, to the eastern side  coofntfhuesiPoinc--caodfillwy rfirtionngt-.

It was full of articles in much
tables with Blue - books, of articles of clothing hung
on screens, and of furniture with no definite arrange
ment. The Duke presently entered by a side-door,
and, after shaking hands, he set me down on a comfort
able arm-chair whilst he himself drew up in front of
me and close to me, and sat down upon, a small cane-
bottomed chair as comfortless as possible. When we
were both seated, he folded his arms across his chest,
inclined himself forward towards me, dropped his chin
I Iupon his            sIatt  motionless in the  attitude of
           chest, and         was a formidable    ordeal for
attentive  listening.                            in Europe,
me. felt had before me the greatest man
Iand had to speak to him without the guidance of one
single leading question from him or observation of
any sort or kind. There was but one encouragement,
the great one, however, of close and absolute attention
on the Duke's part. His eyes were  not   wandering, for
they were fixed upon the ground.
                                     It   seemed as if
he felt it a duty to listen, and to listen carefully. This,
Ino doubt, was encouraging. But, on the other hand,
it was very formidable.       could not look upon that
' good grey head that  all men knew,'  inclined   before
me, with its massive    forehead and   brain --  on the

THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON          317

I--wowrkitinhgouot f
which the fate   of Europe had  so often hung
need of all the   pluck could    command in
Itelling him my story. However, did it as clearly
I Iand shortly as could. When had finished, the old
Duke raised his eyes from the floor, and, looking
straight at me, said : ' It's a very hard case -- a very
hard case indeed. But now let me ask you a ques
tion. You are going to make a motion in the House
Iof Lords in favour of this gentleman's claims. Now,

suppose you carry your motion, want to know what
Iawhilmal voyemoauelnwtda'soystphaaesuknseed?--m'Bybesececaalfuu, ss"ee,W' thhardaodtu'esgdhthtehmenyeDxwtuhksoteelepaf?lti"efer'
IiMws iytcharerrypieolydurwinaaspt:phr'eoOvLhao,lr--Ddustk--hee,anGdothveiensrpknemtchieaanllttyifwisf uiliclthfiesaemcl aocrtroiimoend

pelled to do something for this poor man.' ' I'm not

Iso sure of that,' said the Duke ; ' and, besides, have
to consider my position in relation to the Queen's
IGovernment.  shall probably not be able to vote
Iat all, but I'll go down to the House and hear you.'
had nothing to do but to thank him for his kindness
I Iand to retire.
              did so feeling that any trouble had
had in this case was well rewarded by hearing from
the Duke of Wellington's own lips that terse descrip
tion of those habits of forethought and careful calcula
tion which no doubt were among the great secrets of
Ihis glorious career.
  IBefore pass from this interview with the Duke,
Imust say a few words of personal description in respect

to some features of his person which have never seen
portrayed. His figure was even then perfectly erect
and soldier-like, but his head drooped a little on his
chest. What struck one most in his appearance was,
not his high aquiline nose, which is so prominent in
all the pictures, but his splendid eyes. They were
blue in colour, and very round and very large. Of
course, all eyeballs are equally round, but they are
cut across in varying degrees by the eyelids covering

318           THE RYLAND CASE                            [chap. XV

a larger or a smaller part of them. When the eyelids
hardly touch the top of the eyeballs at all, or are even
lifted clear above them, a staring effect is given, as
in owls. This form of eye is essentially expressionless.
On the other hand, in some persons, the open part of
the eye is a mere slit, and this is almost equally hostile
to expressiveness. The Duke's eyes were very large,
the eyelids cutting across them very high up, but not
leaving them uncovered. They arrested all one's
attention in  a moment. One thought             no more  ofI  the
beaky nose    or of the small and firm           mouth.        do
not think that the softer emotions of humanity were

prominent. Self-possession,  cwailsmdnoemss--,  circumspection,
firmness, truthfulness, and                     these were the
Ispthhpirgeaehsat,skiitivbneuwgtawscvhhenoarolyerta. cbatredoHroaiismsdtiechadsen,adhdbemalwedana.ssdseivndIeot.tiwnaaIsohtniogewhnalcysoa,nlmmea--osdaietnrdmwateeiemraelyn,
a battlemented forehead, ' foursquare to all the winds
Ithat blew.' His voice was powerful, deep-toned, and
with a military imperativeness of enunciation.           need

Inot say, after my one experience of his personal con

versation, how felt the truth of Tennyson's later
couplet :
              ' His language rife
              With rugged maxims hewed from life.'

Of his gentleness and courtesy and kindness of
Imanner in private life need give no other illustra
Ition than his treatment of me in 1850.             was then
Ionly twenty-seven years old, and in no political

position. Yet if had been one of his own con
temporaries, or high in office, he could not have paid
me more attention and respect.

  I brought on my motion in Ryland's case in the
ILords, and by the help of Lord Derby carried it
against the Government by a majority of three. The
IDuke of Wellington did not vote, and the Government

did nothing. But bided my time, and some years

1850]             PRINCE ALBERT                                      319

Ilater, when was a colleague of Lord John Russell
Iand when he was Colonial Secretary, brought the case
before him. We were then intimate friends, and he
was kind enough to place considerable reliance on my
Iopinion. So he said to me one day, after had again
It' oWldellh,imdohoywoustrownrigtley  felt the injustice of the case :
                                    the despatch to the Colonial
IGovernment, and I'll sign it.' What a different spirit,
    thought, from Lord Grey's ! So this was done,
and at last my    esfufcocretsss.werIet  crowned with at least a
small measure of                         got for Ryland the very

inadequate sum of £5,000 as compensation for his

losses.

  IIn following., however, this little episode to its

close, am anticipating the order of time, and must

return for a little on my steps. In 1850 London
was full of talk about the great Industrial Exhibition
which Prince Albert had designed for the follow
ing year, and for the preparation of which he had
associated together many of the most
men in politics, in science, and in arts.                       dIisttinwgaus isthheedn
an entirely new idea, and it amuses me now to
recollect the absurd fears and the not less absurd
hopes which were conjured up by opposing parties in

society.
  IThis would appear to be the proper place to intro

duce what then knew of that remarkable young
German Prince who had become the husband of our
young Queen. His Royal Highness had been kind
enough at one time to arrange that an intimation

Ishould be made to me that he would be pleased if

were to accept an official place in his Court. But this
would have been so entirely out of my natural line
Iof life

accept
          and  poofsitoioccnu, paalttihonougthhaIt       could  not  possibly
          the                                       regarded    the  proposal
Ias a great personal compliment, on which set a high
Ivalue.        knew a great deal more about the Prince
than was known to the public, and, indeed, to any but
a very few persons who enjoyed a real intimacy with

320  EXHIBITION OF 1851   [chap. XV

the Queen. One of those was my mother-in-law,
the Duchess of Sutherland, who had been in the
Queen's service as Mistress of the Robes ever since
Her Majesty's accession to the throne. The Duchess
was a woman who had as quick an eye for every form
of human excellence as for every kind of beauty in
Nature or in Art. Everything that was pure and
noble secured her immediate recognition, by whatever
drapery it might be covered. She had met Prince
Albert at Rome, and had been then struck by the beauty
of his countenance. When he married the Queen, the
Duchess had abundant opportunities of observing his
pure and conscientious    unselfish devo
tion with which he laboured systematically in the
service of the monarchy and of its people. The insular
dislike of all foreigners, which is almost a feature in
the English character, told against any general popu
larity. The classes most interested in science and
in art were all impressed by his knowledge and ability
when they came into contact with him ; and the long
and intricate preparations which were necessary to
bring to a successful issue his great scheme of an Inter
national Exhibition were the first transactions which
spread widely among the middle classes some know
ledge of this very remarkable man. The Prince had
a countenance modelled on the type of beauty con
ceived by the great masters as representing souls
that have reached the spiritual world. There was
great sweetness and great gentleness in his face, but
he had a powerful forehead, and a calm, penetrating
eye, where moments of reflection were interchanged
with glances which bespoke the frequent suggestions
of humour and amusement.
  IAs there was nothing to interest me much in the

session of 1850, my wife and determined to spend
some of the midsummer weeks in visiting my island
estates in the Hebrides, and particularly Tiree, which
had been the source of so much anxiety ever since
1846, and where the work of reform was still going on

1850]         SCENERY OF THE HEBRIDES              321

to such an extent that the whole rental of the estate

was absorbed. Accordingly, we hired a steamer and
made our way to that lovely island. The only house
       could  inhabit was              by the local factor.
Iwte  was in  the singular  one used   of being built on a
                             position
promontory projecting into a small and sheltered
Ilake, at some distance from the sea.              do not
doubt that this was a traditional site where a cran-
nog or lake - dwelling had once existed, and that
its connection with the shores of the lake had been
effected by subsequent filling in of the isolating
IchaItnniesl.very difficult to make others understand the

immense enjoyment have always had in the scenery
of the Hebrides. In the last century this scenery
was unappreciated by         Samuel Johnson,   and more
recently we have seen,      in his ' Monks of  the West,'

how insensible to its beauties was even the refined
Iand poetic temperament of Montalembert.
                                               suppose
that in this case, as in many others, Walter Scott
has been the great revealer. And yet much of
the Hebridean scenery has every element of lofty
grandeur and of beauty. Its precipices are magnifi
cent, its mountains lofty, rugged, and highly suggestive
of the most tremendous forces which have made our
world. Its sunsets are unequalled in any part of the
world, because the rainy climate secures an extra
ordinary richness and variety in the clouds. A large
part of the island of Tiree is not raised 50 feet above
the waves. But all the more completely are we
delivered over to the two great dominions of the
ocean and of the sky, with just enough of earth to
indicate the relation of both to its abundance of life
and joy. The sea comes in on every variety of beach,
but chiefly on great curved bays of pure white sand,
sometimes in the gentlest ripples, sometimes in rollers
which are magnificent. The grass pastures are rich
in clovers and full of larks. The skies in the evening
are often gorgeous beyond description, the clouds
vol. i.
                                               21

322             VISIT TO THE HEBRIDES                 [chap, xv

Iimitating sometimes towers and battlements, and even

mountain ranges, so solid, apparently, that have
seen strangers convinced of their substantiality. Much
of the glory of the sky and of the long after-glow which
succeeds the sunset, and in that latitude ' lies in heaven
half the night,' was reflected in the little lake under
neath our windows ; whilst terns and plovers of various
species came to roost on the boulder-stones which were
above the water. Coots and water-hens floated among
the reeds, busy with their peaceful quest of water-

weeds.
My enjoyment in this peculiar scenery was greatly
Ienhanced by seeing the happy effects upon the people

of the policy which had entered upon four years
ago. The emigration of several hundreds of half-
starving tenants, and the annexation of their wretched
little possessions to those held by their most capable
neighbours, together with systematic draining of large
areas of land, were measures which were already
bearing most satisfactory fruit. The interest charge
able on capital laid out on these improvements
seemed to be met with ease out of increased produce,
and other tenants were eager to have their land
drained on the same terms. The people throughout
the island were most cordial in the reception they
gave us, for as yet the ' Epoch of the Fools ' was
far away, when they were to be taught that every
power which had been exercised by me and my
ancestors for their benefit was a power which we never
ought to have possessed.
On our return to Inveraray, we were shocked and
grieved by the news of the death of Sir Robert Peel,
from a riding accident on Constitution Hill. Even
those who had never belonged to his party now felt
that             pillar of the   State had fallen,    andIt  that
the    a great  had suffered    an irreparable loss.         was
      country
quite possible that Peel might never again have been
at the head of a Government, but the weight attached
to his opinion by all his contemporaries was not less,

1850]         DEATH OF SIR ROBERT PEEL                   323

but greater, than it had ever been before. He enjoyed
the favour of his Sovereign, and he had seen and
appreciated the wisdom of the Prince Consort, who
in his turn had not less thoroughly trusted in the
honesty and sagacity of Peel.

  I had long given up my old habit of going to hear
Idebates in the House of Commons, so that even if
Ihad been in London might probably have missed
hearing one of the most remarkable speeches ever
delivered in that House. That was the speech de
livered by Lord Palmerston, in defence of his conduct
towards the Greek Government in the affair of Don

Pacifico. In itself it was an affair of the smallest
possible importance, but it brought to a head the long-
prevailing impression that Lord Palmerston's mode of
conducting the foreign policy of the country was over
               and bullying,   and   offensive to other
Ibteawriansg  not pleasant to        the overwhelming     nations.
                               see                       power of

England brought to bear with violence on the micro
scopic little kingdom of Greece, in order to extract

Iextravagant compensation for a Gibraltar Jew.
shared the unfavourable impression of Palmerston's
conduct which was universal with the Peelites and
widespread even in his own party ; but it was admitted
that the speech in which he made his defence in June,
1850, placed him at one               bound among the greatest
shpoeuarsk.ersItofwhasis  time. It    lasted for four and a half
                                     without the aid of a single
                          delivered  for clearness, for connected
note. It was wonderful
narrative, for fiery appeals to sentiment, and for
cogent reasoning on the principles he assumed. ' We
are all proud of him,' was the tribute of Sir Robert
Peel in the last speech he ever delivered in the House
of Commons, not many hours before that fatal accident
which caused his death.
IBetween two and three months of this winter,
1850-51, we spent in Edinburgh.      had taken there the
charming old residence of Bruntsfield House, for the
purpose of putting my wife during her confinement
                                        21--2

324  SIR JAMES SIMPSON              [chap, xv

Iunder the charge of Dr. (afterwards Sir James)

Simpson. can hardly, without seeming to exaggerate,
convey to others the pleasure which we both had in
our personal intercourse with that distinguished man.
His name will ever be inseparably   connected with one
of the most blessed discoveries of   our age -- that of
anaesthetics. He was then in the full flush of his first
great joy over the relief to human suffering which it
had been given to him to introduce to the knowledge
and practice of his great profession. For a long time
he had had floating before his mind's eye the possibility
of some agent which would produce a temporary and
harmless insensibility to pain. Chloroform was not,
as such discoveries generally are, the result of a happy
accident turned to good account. The possibility of
such a substance existing was deliberately conceived
by Simpson, and tested by experiments systematically
pursued among the volatile ethers, till one was found
both safe and effective. Incredible as it may seem
now, this most blessed discovery was met at first by
an ebullition of every conceivable folly that could be
suggested by personal envy, by professional and pro
vincial jealousy, and even by religious superstition.
The London School of Medicine was jealous of the
Edinburgh School, whilst, locally, the pre-eminence of
Simpson did not recommend the splendour of this
individual achievement to all his contemporaries.
There was a war of pamphlets and of scientific papers,
in which Simpson took his part with a powerful and
slashing pen. That great army of suffering mortality
which was yearly passing under  htihme--susirlgeenot n'fsorkntihfee
was continually present before
most part, since few of them were writers or speakers,
but eloquent none the less to those who in the course
of their professional education had seen the agonies
of the operating-table.
There was, however, one of these sufferers then in
Edinburgh who held a high place in physiological
science, and who wielded a pen of extraordinary power

1850]  DISCOVERY OF ANAESTHETICS                                   325

and pathos. This was Professor George Wilson, author
of biographies of Cavendish and of Dr. John Reid,
and other charming books. He had been born a
delicate child, with a constitution full of the seeds
of hereditary disease, but also, as not unfrequently
happens, with a mind rich in the highest qualities
of intellect and heart. Deadly mischief at last
settled in the bones and joints of one leg, and he
was told by the surgeons that amputation was the
only hope of life. He was therefore now able to tell
the world what an anaesthetic would have done for
him, not merely in saving him from the agonies of
the operation, but in saving him from the more
terrible and prolonged agonies of the anticipation.
Being an eminent physiologist, he knew only too
well the delicacy of his own organism, its extreme
sensitiveness to even ordinary pain. He knew all
the great nerves and great vessels that would have to
bsaewrnudaeslyuncduetr,--arnedndtehreedbomneosre  that would have to be
                                                    than usually sensitive
by the inflammation and degeneration of disease.

All this was before his mind by night and by day.
Black whirlwinds of horror used to come over him
materctiym. es,Itduisringthe
                              which    death would       have been a
                                high,  but also at      evil times the
sad, prerogative of man to live mainly in the future.
Anticipation is the atmosphere he breathes. He has
a power and a habit of anticipation which removes
the physical sufferings of the lower animals into an
altogether different category from his. George Wilson
could not but feel intensely what it would have been
to him if someone, during those days of habitual
agony, had suddenly told him that an ether had been
discovered which, when inhaled for a few seconds,
would render                                                       as if it
were inorganic  t--hethbaotdtyheaskninifsee, nasinbdle   to  pain
                                                        the  saw,  and the

pincers, and the forceps might all do their dreadful
work among the tenderest tissues of his poor quiver
ing body, yet without causing the smallest suffering,

326             SIR JAMES SIMPSON                          [chap. XV

and that consciousness would return without a trace
in it of the dreadful ordeal. Wilson's paper on this
subject was written with such power and pathos that
the impression it made upon me remains as vivid as
it was forty-eight years ago. We found the author
as charming as his pen, and we knew better than
ever how to cherish our intercourse with Simpson as
one of the very greatest among the benefactors of

mankind.
ISimpson's own enthusiasm was delightful.                            do
Inot know that have ever met any man in whom
genius was written more visibly in face and voice and
manner. His spirit seemed to be always quivering
in the presence of Nature, as if conscious of her immense
suggestiveness, and trembling            Iltestwahse  should miss even
the slightest of her hints.                           most interesting
to watch the movements of his expression when he or
             mfaecnt --tioanneydthiinng  conversation      any curious
anyone else                                 unusual or       apparently
or singular
anomalous, however trivial. His spirit seemed always
to withdraw into its own recesses and to be following
the trail of some footprint too faint for others to
observe, and too slight even for himself to follow to
any conclusion. Then it would return from its excur
sion, breaking  inwtooulsdmilceosm, eraadtialnatst.withIt  the hope  that
an explanation                                             was not   only

in physiology that his conversation was so delightful.
Immense as that subject is, and having branches which

lead into the empyrean, it was not large enough to
engross that eager nature. On many other sciences
he was deeply read, and watchful of every new step,

whether of discovery or in speculation. In archaeology
he was an expert, and waged war with the Astronomer
Royal on a strange theory about the original purpose

of the Pyramids of Gizeh. In appearance Simpson
had great peculiarities, not altogether favourable to
a first impression. He was very short in stature,
very fat and round, with small legs, which moved in a
short and rapid shuffle, so that he seemed to roll into

1850]                  PROFESSOR JAMES GREGORY                         327

a room like a black rabbit.            His head  wItas       enormous --
like the classical busts of            Jupiter.
                                                            was covered
with a shock of long and thick hair, which fell over
his forehead so as often to obscure his eyes. His
fsemaatullreasn,durnedfienrende--atha  a brow of immense     breadth,
                                       finely-curved nose,  sagacious  were
                                                                       eyes,
with a smile of great kindness and benevolence, and
most movable and expressive lips. When one had
got to know it, and to see its working in thought
and in expression, it was a most noble and spiritual
countenance.
Our intercourse with Simpson was not my only
Iresource at that time in Edinburgh. Finding myself

so near the University, used to walk across Brunts-
field Links every morning after breakfast to attend the
class of chemistry. That Chair was then held by
Professor James Gregory, the last representative of a
very distinguished family, whose members had made
for themselves a name in more than one branch
o' fGrescgioernicaen.
                         One of them was the inventor of the
                       telescope,' a discovery without which
astronomy would not now be what it has become.
Another member was for a long time the leading doctor
in Edinburgh, and his familiar name was ' the beloved
physician.' His famous ' mixture ' was the terror of
my childhood, not yet erased from the horrors of the

Pharmacopoeia.
Professor James Gregory in 1850 was an elderly
man, in very bad health ; but he had much charm as
a lecturer, and my daily attendance soon established
a warm friendship between us. He was afflicted with
elephantiasis in the legs, and could not without great
difficulty rise from his chair. Chained thus to a
sedentary life, he took to microscopy, as an occupation
which he could pursue under such conditions. He was
Iat that time devoted to the forms and structure of

the Diatomacese. had never before seen them. The
beauty and the definiteness of their ornamentation
delighted me, and the position they hold as organisms

328           PROFESSOR JAMES GREGORY                             [chap, xv

belonging to the vegetable kingdom, whilst they
mareotiocne,rtaienxlyciteedndaolwl emd ywictuhriothsiety.poweItr  of voluntary
                                                                  became one
Iof my favourite amusements to gather them, and
    was able  to supply   my   friend with some new
and curious   specimens  from
                               a lake deposit at In
veraray, which was rich in both marine and fresh-water

species.

   The most interesting incident in my intercourse
with Professor Gregory arose out of another of his

mbpuuarrgsgunhiettsai,stmfot.hrawIt hstiocimohneh--feonuwanmadseolmyu,ut cmthheasltam,uegwrhishemedt,haetroriGnareEngidmoirnayl

was right or wrong in some of his reasonings and con
clusions, he was not a man to be laughed at, but
simply one of those who felt as a living truth that there
are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed
of in our philosophy. Although London society had
been full for some years of the talk about mesmerism,

I had never given myself any occupation concerning it.
I had a profound distrust of all the public exhibitions

and exhibitors, whilst the complete lawlessness and
Isenselessness of the alleged results were no induce

ments to serious inquiry. On the other hand, had
never made up my mind that it was all nonsense or
all imposture. The physical effects of the mesmeric
sleep were indubitable, and we heard from India
Ithat those effects were perfect anaesthesia under the
most severe surgical operations.  was therefore

always willing to see what could be seen, under con
ditions of real security against imposture or deceit of
any kind. Such conditions were afforded by Pro
fessor Gregory. He was a scientific man, devoted to
strictly scientific methods, and an expert in one
science, which was at once most rigid in its laws and
most mysterious in its effects. When he invited me
Ito his house to see certain experiments on servants
and friends of his own,        gladly accepted. They

were experiments in two only out of the many classes

1850]  THOUGHT-READING         329

of phenomena attributed to mesmerism. One was
what was then called the phenomena of suggestion.
The other was the phenomena of thought-reading.

In the first of these the mesmerized person (being
thrown into that state by passes of the mesmerizer's
hands) was in such a condition of absolute passivity
that he received any impression suggested to him
by speech, and acted on that impression in the
appropriate manner. The scene suggested became
Ito him the scene in which he lived, however different
from his actual surroundings.  saw this effect
produced and exhibited in perfection in the case
of a fine handsome young officer of a regiment then
stationed in the Castle of Edinburgh. He was made
to believe that he was at a horse-market, and had to
choose a horse. He took the piano for the horse, and
felt down one leg to the castor, as men feel down the
leg of a horse to the fetlock. He was then made to
believe he was on a grouse moor, shooting grouse over
dogs. His handling of an imaginary gun was most
curious, and if he had not been stopped by those near
him, he would have walked out of the window to pick
up the fallen birds.

  IBeyond the certainty felt that such an effect could

Inot be produced by a purely imaginary agency, saw
no light in this exhibition. But what followed was
a phenomenon of a very different character, and it
Ihas remained vividly impressed on my memory as

the strangest and most mysterious have encountered
in life. One of the women servants in Gregory's
house was very sensitive to mesmeric influence, and
when under it she was said to see, and to be able to
describe, any scene which was vividly depicted in the
memory of the person who was trying the experiment,
and who was placed in close proximity to her. Gregory
invited me to try the experiment, and in assenting,

I determined to imagine myself in a very peculiar
Iroom at Trentham with which was familiar, and all
Ithe details of which could recall with the vividness

330                   PROFESSOR JAMES GREGORY  [chap, xv

and reality of life. It was a room so peculiar in its
decorations that no one who had not seen it could
possibly imagine it. The walls were panelled with
fine large pictures of Venice by Stanfield, the great
marine painter of the day, and the wall spaces between
the panels were covered with a rich red velvet, over
which was cast an open trellis-work of a gold moulding.
The woman at once began by identifying what she
saw in my vision as a room. She then proceeded, as
if she saw dimly through obscurities or obstacles, but
still continued with firm steps, so far as each of them
carried her. The next                   was that in the room she
saw ' pictures,' then '           step  pictures.' At this point
                                 large
Ishe paused, as if puzzled, and said : ' What is it that
    see between the pictures ?' Then she went on
slowly : ' Oh, it's velvet, with a net of goldwork over
it.' She proceeded with other details in the same way,
including a description of an old gentleman walking
in the garden outside the window, which corresponded
well with the personal appearance of my father-in-law,
the Duke of Sutherland. But what she had already
Isaid was enough for me.                could not then doubt, nor
Ihave doubted ever since, that she had seen and read
Ithe vision which had recalled, and by recalling had
printed afresh on my mental, if not also on my physical,
retina. This is an idea which was not my own, for
iBtrehwasdtebre--ena             to me by my friend Sir David
                      suggested  great eminence in those days,
                       man of

especially in the optical sciences. He always main
htaaoniunyseedf,amotrhialaiattrrweeoh--bejneacnwtdewwrhheaectnaelvlweewr --idtwhwehltlehtoehneeriytesatoeffaadcmeil,yemoworitrhya
our mental vision, as we may easily do, so that every
characteristic line and colour and expression is repro
duced in our imagination, the result is produced by
an actual reprinting on our bodily retina of the picture
originally impressed on that same retina by the rays
Iof light.            often asked him whether he could give
Ime any proof of this as a fact. But never could get

1850]       RETURN TO ROSNEATH              331

from him more than strong reassertions that it must
be so ; that the vivid reproduction of remembered
scenes could only be effected by the same machinery
as that by which perception had been originally pro
duced. But this idea of necessity depends on the
assumption that purely mental images are impossible,

and that organic machinery of some kind is an in
variable and necessary    pIatrtmoafyablle  perception, whether
at first or second hand.
                                            so ; but it obviously
is not a doctrine applicable to remembered thoughts
and reasonings, but only to remembered scenes. And
this would seem to supply a law, at least of limitation,
to the phenomena of mesmeric clairvoyance. Not
thought-reading, but only picture-seeing, would be
the boundary of its powers. And undoubtedly such
an idea was welcome to my mind in thinking on
Ithe mysterious facts which had come before me.

That the woman did see the scene had vividly
and consciously reproduced on what we call the
tablets of memory seemed to me certain ; that she
Icould have anticipated the selection was to make
Iof all the scenes could have recalled with equal
Iease was,  felt, an absolute impossibility. That
she could have described characteristic details which
are absolutely unique was equally impossible, with
out some actual seeing of them on her own part.
The total impression left on me was that human
beings in certain states of mental sensitiveness
may and do sometimes see what other human
beings are vividly redepicting on the retina of their

eyes.

   As soon as my wife's convalescence enabled us to
leave Edinburgh, we returned to Rosneath, where
we stayed during the early spring of 1851. And

Ithis suggests to me the opportunity of picking up

a few scattered strands of life which should not
like to leave altogether aside, since they entered not

immaterially into the tissue which it is the business

of a biographer to weave. Among the very few

332            CHEVALIER BUNSEN             [chap. XV

Iforeigners in London with whom had any acquaint
ance, there was one with whom my wife and myself
had  now  sammaedeintarnoduincttiimonate--  friendship. We      both
had  the                                    namely, the ' Life   and
Letters of Dr. Arnold,' by                   Arthur Stanley.
                                                                  All
who have read that delightful and instructive book
must remember the terms of enthusiastic admiration
in which Arnold always spoke of Chevalier Bunsen,
who had been the successor of the great Niebuhr as
Prussian Minister at Rome, and was now in the same
capacity in London. Full of learning and knowledge,
especially on all historical subjects, whether in secular
or religious history, he was not less remarkable for an
eager and enthusiastic temperament, a most genial
manner, and, in conversation, an acute sense of fun.
Like all Germans, especially at that time, he had an
intense love of the Fatherland, and was one of those
who most eagerly believed that the unsettlement of
all its thrones and peoples, consequent on the still
unexhausted heavings of the Revolutions of 1848,
would somehow end in a consolidated German Empire
and a politically united people. Of course, as a good
Prussian subject, and as representative of Prussia, he
desired above all things that this union should be
effected under the leadership of the Prussian monarchy.

At one moment it seemed about to be accomplished,
for the Imperial Crown was offered to the King of
Prussia. Bunsen was in the highest state of excite
ment. He mounted the German tricolour upon the
Embassy ; he decorated his carriage with its rosettes,
and even mounted one on his own breast. Of course,
he was made the laughing-stock of political society in
London, which, for the most part, is incapable of under
standing such faith in a future which still seemed so
distant and improbable. To all sceptics Bunsen used
to  open his
at  a vision,  fine large  ssapye,cu' lIattivcoemeeyse--s, yaonud,wloilol ksieneg--aits
               he would

is coming.'
    Palmerston, who was our Foreign Minister, was the

1851]       PALMERSTON AND BUNSEN                         333

very incarnation of ridiculing disbelief. But more
than this : he hated Prussia, and had the worst opinion
of the motives of Prussian statesmen. They were
playing a game for the hegemony of Germany, and
not at all for the establishment of constitutional

liberty amongst the German people. At that moment,
and since his triumph in the House of Commons on
the Greek claims, Palmerston seemed the most power
ful member of the Cabinet. Distrusted by many of
his own party, he was detested by every foreign
IGovernment, and especially by the German Unionists.
   well recollect standing with Bunsen outside his
Embassy at Carlton Terrace when a procession
was passing by along the Mall below us. When
Palmerston passed there was some cheering of the
spectators ranged on each side. Bunsen turned his
          away slowly, saying, half     to himself, half
e' yHees  has no principle, and he      has no heart.'    to me :

                                                          In the
sense in which these words were spoken, they were
founded on truth ; but they were wrong in the sense
they conveyed in our language. Palmerston was not,
in the ordinary meaning of the word, an unprincipled
politician. He was honest in his purposes, and truth
ful in his prosecution of them. That ' honesty is the
best       policy ' was  his favourite  traudea--geheinhaddiplonmo ahciygh;
but       what Bunsen     meant was

ideals for the future of the world, and had a profound
distrust of those who professed to be guided by such
ideals. To them he seemed to be, and he really was,
heartless and unsympathetic. Palmerston's nature
and Bunsen' s were pretty nearly at the poles of human
character.

  IBunsen had much to endure at that time in English

society. He and were both members of a club
which     met once a week to         dine at  ItthewaTshaatcvheerdy
House     Tavern in St. James's      Street.

miscellaneous society, presided over by old Sir Robert
Inglis, the old-fashioned Tory High Churchman, who
so long represented the University of Oxford in the

334               CHEVALIER BTTNSEN              [chap. XV

House of Commons. On one evening I recollect only

too well one of our number was a certain Dr. Croll,
who had been a notorious and very violent political
writer. He was a coarse man, but clever and forcible
in his talk. As bad luck would have it, the conversa
tion turned, as it often did at that time, on the state
of affairs in Germany, and Dr. Croll most improperly
said something very contemptuous of the policy of the
then King of Prussia. Considering that the Ambas
sador of that Sovereign was sitting opposite, this was
certainly a gross breach of the courtesies of a literary
society, at which men of all parties were understood
tpoasmsieoent--ononferiesondvlyiolteenrmt sa. s   Bunsen flew into a violent
Iance. Poor Sir                                  almost to choke his utter
                  wRweoarbsee--grtrfeoaIrntlgythlieds,isstctrehenesesewmdaosasntddisgscehrneotdclekiteadabn--led
courteous of men,
as, indeed, we all
to English manners. mention it as an illustration of
the state of feeling at the time, and of the total want
of sympathy with the aspirations of the German
people which was certainly conspicuous in this country.
When that movement for unity collapsed, because
the King of Prussia could not accept an offer
which came from only a portion of the German
people, and was supported by none of the Princes,
Bunsen felt bitterly the apparent vanishing of his
hopes and of his dreams. He shut himself up in
his Embassy with his books, and went as little as
possible into a society so little in harmony with his

feelings.

  I IAnd yet, when look back upon that time now,
cannot but feel that Bunsen was far nearer to the truth
than those who ridiculed him. The unity of Germany
was not a dream, neither was the leadership of Prussia.
Her aspirations were as legitimate as those of any
other people in seeking for empire. She had, indeed,
been slow and laggard when Pitt had tried to rally
Europe in its own self-defence. But she had now passed
through the fire of a terrible retribution, and the dis

1851]                          THE RISE OF PRUSSIA                             335

astrous days which followed Jena had taught her at
last   the   duty of the       greIatteswtasGesrcmaracnelykinegidthoemr  towards
the    rest   of Europe.                                                 rational
or grateful in the British public to forget so soon the
timely advance of Bliicher on our left at Waterloo.
Neither Bunsen nor Palmerston could then see the

steps of consequence which were already preparing
the way for a Prussian-German Empire. Bunsen was
right : ' it was coming '; only Prussia had to prove
herself the leader in another and a terrible baptism
of fire and blood. No new page had been turned over
in the history of political causes by the Revolution of
1848. Plebiscites and votes by acclamation in Par
liaments of doubtful authority were of as little avail
as ever in making nations. The gallant Crown Prince
of Prussia, brother of the King, who arrived one day
in Bunsen's house in Carlton Terrace alone, in plain
Bcleorthlines--, tahnisd,               from revolutionary    violence in
                           a   refugee  could have foreseen   the future,
                               Bunsen
                           if
Iwas the herald of all his hopes. Well do remember
seeing and admiring the fine military bearing of that
Prince at a ball in Buckingham Palace. Only by the
restoration of legitimate authority, and by the restora
tion of the army to its self-respect, did that Prince,
when he became King, succeed in again building up a
Prussia capable of fulfilling Bunsen's hopes and more
than verifying                 Ihis dreams.
   My wife and                                our friendship  with Bunsen
                                  cultivated
to the last hour of his residence in England. The
Sutherlands had him as a guest at Trentham, and we
had a happy visit              fcroommpahnimiona--t tIhnevemraorsaty.genHiael
indeed a delightful                                                            was
                                                                               and
warm-hearted of men, bubbling over with humour,
and full at the same time of an absorbing interest in
Iall the greatest questions of intellectual speculation.

Often have wished that he had lived to see the day
when the Imperial Crown of Germany was offered with
universal acclaim to the refugee Prince to whom he
gave shelter in Carlton Terrace, and when that Prince,

336  CHEVALIER BUNSEN  [chap. XV

as King of Prussia, was in the Palace of Versailles, at
the head of the triumphant armies of Germany. Not
seldom in this world are we tempted to entertain such

wishes, when prophetic men die apparently before
their time, and when the visions that excited nothing
but ridicule in their contemporaries are realized at last
in the sight of all the world.

               CHAPTER XVI

                                               1851-52

OPENCIONUGFPIRODSF'ETTGALTOA--FSFGEDORIWSCOOATFVHEREGNYO.EVUEOMRF N--MAREEDNXTTHUINBOITFLIFOEICNAEF-O--BFEDT1H8--5E1

       ELECTED CHANCELLOR OF ST. ANDREW'S UNIVER
       SITY

IAfter our return to Rosneath, in January, 1851,

   was called to Glasgow to fulfil an engagement
to open in that city a new Athenaeum for public
          and  osvteurdflyo.wingT,heandlargI eshtadhaalnl  in Glasgow
reading    to                                              enthusiastic
was full
audience. As this was the first of many occasions

IIstoooncaiwadlhd, ircreehsl,siggidoruuersai,ntgamnefdoetrpitnoyglsityiceianalrsG--, lasgwhoiaswvheohnebreaeellntosucbabeljleaecrdtsmo--ny
Itestimony to the great superiority of the people of

Glasgow over all others whom have ever addressed,
in respect to that liveliness, quickness, and high
intelligence on which every speaker must depend for
all the pleasure and all the satisfaction he can possibly
Iderive from his exertions. Next to them, and very

near them, should place the people of Paisley.
When we returned to London in the early spring
of 1851, we found the whole world talking and think
ing of little else than the approaching Great Exhibi
tion. The present generation can hardly realize what

it was. We are now familiar, even to weariness,
with repetitions and imitations of that idea. But in
1851 it was an absolute novelty, and both friends and
vol. i.
               337 22

338             EXHIBITION OF 1851                                   [chap. XVI

enemies talked the wildest nonsense about it. Its
enthusiastic supporters seemed to think that it would
inaugurate in the world an age of universal peace.
Swords were to be beaten into plough-shares and spears

into pruning-hooks all the world over. Its enemies
conjured up every sort of danger, from crowds of
foreign refugees and a tumultuous concourse of un
controllable mobs. As a fact, the Exhibition was a
splendid success, seen by hundreds of thousands clad
in universal smiles. As a fact also, alas ! some of the
most bloody wars in history have been waged since
its opening, and now it would almost seem as if wars
to secure commercial markets are to be as fierce as

wars used to be for actual territory. The opening of
ItIthawtasExbhyibfiatironthe
                was a   sight never to be                            forgotten.
                 most  beautiful spectacle                           have ever
seen--using the word beautiful in the strictest sense.
There was nothing of the majesty, solemnity, and
infinite pathos of the magnificent procession that
escorted the Queen on her Jubilee in 1887 from
Buckingham Palace to Westminster, and of the scene
in the Abbey, when her people and the Princes of
Europe did honour to a simple character and to an
illustrious reign. But, merely as a spectacle of joy
and of supreme beauty, the opening of the Great
Exhibition of 1851 stands in my memory as a thing
unapproachable and alone. This supreme beauty
was mainly in the building, not in its contents, nor
even in the brilliant and happy throng that filled it.
The sight of it was a new sensation, as if Fancy had
      sseuedndebnelyforeu--nvietsileldig. htsNoomtehninegss,  like   it had ever
been                                                            its  loftiness, its
been
interminable vistas, its aisles and domes of shining
and brilliant colouring. Yet few knew that this
setting for the great pageant, which lent it all its
wonderful charm, was the product of a man of genius,
who was discovered and brought forward by the Duke
of Devonshire.
The Duke was very fond of horticulture, to which

1851]                  SIR JOSEPH PAXTON                  339

he  gave much time,     and      to which he  devoted much
    his ample fortune.           was he who   introduced the
of                        It
Icultivation of orchids, since so immensely popular,

and recollect once hearing a celebrated collector
mourning over the Duke's death, as there was no
one to take his place as a munificent patron of horti
culture. There was a story current in his family that
he was so engrossed by the discovery of a new species
of orchid, called ' Dendrobium,' that, in absence of
mind, he signed a letter ' Yours truly, Dendrobium,'
instead of 'Devonshire.' One of the Duke's special
gifts was well known to be an extraordinary sagacity
in the perception of character, and in one case at least
it bore good fruit. Walking one day in his gardens
at Chiswick, he happened to notice the pruning of a
plant on a wall, which was being done by a journey
man gardener mounted on a ladder. The Duke
stopped to ask some question of the man, who gave
an unusually intelligent reply, and showed a counte
nance which at once struck the Duke's penetrating
       as in    thIet  highest degree remarkable.   He asked
eye    name.           was Joseph Paxton, and      from that
his
moment the Duke took the man in hand. In no
long time Paxton became head of the Chiswick gardens,
and from Chiswick he was further promoted to be head
gardener at Chatsworth. Under Paxton's inspiration,
the Duke erected at that place an immense conserva

tIot rwy,asona  a scale greatly  beyond anything then existing.
                long, straight   house, so lofty as to hold well-
                       other tropical vegetation.           The
grown palms and        of glass and wood, with a '        ridge-
erection was entirely
and-f urrow ' roof, the idea of which Paxton took from
the structure of some leaf. Paxton was the life and
soul of all the Duke's magnificent works at Chats-
worth, especially of those undertaken in honour of
an approaching visit from the Emperor Nicholas of
Russia.
Paxton's name became celebrated all over the
kingdom, and he was one of the prominent men whom
                                                   22--2

340                       EXHIBITION OF 1851                                [chap. XVI

Prince Albert placed on the Royal Commission for
the Great Exhibition of 1851. The site fixed for the
purpose was on the fine level stretch of ground in
Hyde Park, between Rotten Row and the drive to
Kensington, but on the choice of this position there
was an outbreak of furious opposition, and not un
naturally. The opposite householders would have
been greatly damaged, and if the building was to be
of brick or stone, it would have ruined one of the finest
open spaces of the Park. Lord Campbell, Chief
Justice of England, was one of the threatened house
holders. He was furious. Lord Brougham took part
with his judicial brother, all the more eagerly that he

had early associations adverse to the Court. A party
was stirred up in the House of Commons, and it needed
all the exertions of the leaders of both political parties
to repulse the attack. But all this difficulty was
solved by Joseph Paxton. He conceived the idea of
a building neither of stone nor of brick, but of iron
                                                He     suggested a gigantic conser
gavlanotdroifriyeg.dla.ssItItawlowanoseu. ltdo         the Chatsworth conservatory
                                                  be  built with less labour, and was

                                                 be

more sure to be removed than a more substantial
Ibtuilsdoingh.appeBnuetd                                    to  the site
                          one objection                   the   finest old  remained.
                           that two of                                       elm-trees
          sPiaterk--                                      in the centre of the
in Hyde                   grew                   exactly  the northern edge of
proposed                  one                   close to
it in Rotten Row, the other close to the southern
edge of it in the Kensington Drive. The sacrifice of
those trees was angrily deplored. But the genius of
Paxton came to the front again. Why should those
two fine trees be cut down ? Why not enclose them
in the building ? Why should not the great central
vaulted roof be thrown right over the top of those great
trees, so that not a branch, or twig, or leaf of them
should be touched ? Nobody but Paxton would ever
have thought of such a daring proposal. But when
made, and when the contractors declared that they
could execute this great design, it was joyfully accepted.

1851]                AN OFFER OF OFFICE                    341

--And thus arose     wonoendoefrfuthl ebumilodsint gc.urioIutswaasndcrustcrifikoirnmg

beauties of that
a long nave with a magnificent transept, and at the
end of each arm of this transept was a great forest
tree, in full foliage, with the glittering dome of glass
arching   high over its stately                The procession
         opening was beautiful,       head.    was nothing to
at the
                                       but it
twhhisich mitagfnileifdic.entIt  and  fairy - like building through
                                 was  indeed a splendid triumph of
the human imagination, and of the industrial resources
of modern constructive skill. Other incidents threw
in their contributions to the charm of the scene. The
radiant happiness of the Queen in seeing the success
of her husband's great idea was one of these. The
universal and affectionate homage paid to the old

IDsseuueckihnegasoaflSltW. oePthleleitnergr'tfsoamnatoauRssomhtheein,pgoasrs,stehedeveCwnoalsitsheeaunmogtr--heeatre.hstav--Ine

Ialways felt that could conceive, and had conceived,
them greater. But this building far transcended
all expectation, an effect no doubt of its absolute
novelty, as well as of its splendour in transparency
and light.
During 1851 the Government of Lord John Russell
was evidently tottering to its fall. The Peelites did
all they could to support it, for the sake of keeping
Lord Stanley out ; but it was difficult. Parties were
demoralized, and adverse divisions on particular ques
tions placed the Government in occasional minorities.
Lord John actually resigned, but no Government
could        formed, and he            came back with his whole
crew.  bIet  was about this           time that the first proposal
of office was made to me. Lord John Russell made it
Ithtrowuagshmhadise              Lord Carlisle, my wife's
                     colleague,  kind and complimentary    uncle.
                                                           letter,
                     in a very
explaining that though the office he wished to place at
my disposal was not a Cabinet one, yet in my case it
Iwould be practically at the ' door of the Cabinet.'
Personally           felt as if this was almost a ridiculous

342  FIRST OFFER OF GOVERNMENT OFFICE [chap, xvi

proposal, being very like an invitation to join his
IIcrew from the captain of a sinking ship ; but, of
course, treated it seriously.  replied at once, in a
Ivery diplomatic letter, that felt grateful for Lord
John's kind appreciation, but pointed out that parties
were then in a state of transition, and, as it was
Iimpossible at that moment to foresee how the future

divisions or combinations might arise, did not feel
Iable to act alone in anticipating results under such
very peculiar conditions.      mention the terms of
                                                in them
this letter particularly, because they were    Coalition  '
selves a refutation of the clap-trap phrase '
afterwards applied by Disraeli to his opponents when
they did unite. There was no other possibility of
a strong Government. The old Whigs alone had
fallen into decrepitude, and were especially helpless
in finance. The Peelites were equally incapable of
standing alone. The Protectionists were very much
in the same position, and were losing ground rapidly
as a party with any hope of restoring a discredited
fiscal system.
There is all the difference in the world between an

unprincipled coalition of personal politicians long
opposed and a union of parties between whom the
divisions had disappeared, by the settlement of old
questions and the rise of new questions on which they
were not divided, but, on the contrary, were united.
My letter to Lord John Russell was one indication out
of a thousand others that a complete reconstruction
of parties was then anticipated as a necessity, and that
every man was expected to do his duty in promoting
it. During the rest of 1851 attempts were continually
being made by John Russell to lengthen his cords
Iand to strengthen his stakes. Soundings were taken

in all waters, and doubt whether there was a single
member of the Peelite group who did not receive,
directly or indirectly, proposals, or at least inquiries,
as to joining the Government. They were all founded
on the assumption that Lord John must be the Prime

1851]  LOUIS NAPOLEON  343

Minister, whereas there was among us all a growing
feeling that his part had been nearly played out, and
that some new head was wanted to give a fresh start

to any effective combination of broken and disin

tegrated parties. None of us could then foresee the
strange events which were so soon to precipitate a
crisis and to make this alternative compulsory.

    When the beautiful building of the Crystal Palace
shealdvesceaalsledtaltkoingengorfostswocotnhvinegrssa--tiofinr,stw, ethefoutnodtteroiunrg
condition of our own Cabinet, and, secondly, the
apparently inevitable approach of some new revolu
tionary change in France. Nobody believed for a
moment in the stability of the Assemblies which
assumed the rule of France when the Orleans dynasty
had fled. The name of a republic was a mere tem
porary cover, under which internecine factions could
hatch their conspiracies and bide their time. Legiti
mists, and Orleanists, and Bonapartists, and Socialists,
and Red Republicans, were all plotting and intriguing ;
but when the French people, by an immense majority
under universal suffrage, elected Louis Napoleon to
be President, it was clear what this could only mean.
He had no known abilities. He was a dreamer and
a born conspirator. His election now by such a rush
of voters could only mean a terror of revolution and
a clutching at any name which could restore authority
and found a lasting Government. The existing law
might, and did, bind the President to the absurd
constitution under which he was elected. But none
of the contending factions ever dreamed of being
bound by it themselves. They would, and they did,
plot as they pleased. But he was to sit still with his
hands folded, and to do nothing. Under these con
ditions, France was driving straight upon the rocks of
anarchy. The British press almost universally recog
nised this to be the position of affairs, when suddenly
the President, plotting against the plotters, and having
both money and the masses behind him, struck his

344  THE COUP D'ETAT                     [chap. XVI

decisive blow in the famous coup d'etat of December 2,

1851.

   The reactions of French politics upon the politics
of England, although far less strong and direct than
on the politics of the Continental nations, have never
theless been well marked. The waves of the great

French Revolution did indeed break in vain on our
shores, thanks to the magnificent attitude of Pitt and
to the loyalty of the people whose spirit he embodied.
But they caused the Irish rebellion of 1798. The
later French Revolution, which overthrew the dynasty
of the elder Bourbons, had an undoubted effect in
stimulating the Reform Movement in England which
triumphed in 1832. The still later Revolution of 1848
had as yet done nothing to disturb us here. But now,
suddenly, the man who had served as one of our special
constables in London in that year was elected to the
supreme Government of France, by a demonstration of
popular favour which was indeed mysterious in its
import, but was at least generally regarded in France
as a vote against the anarchy of rival factions, every
one of them revolutionary.
   When the news of the Prince-President's coup d'etat

reached London, it had a curious effect on English
society. We are so accustomed to a steady reign of
order and of law that such unprincipled acts of violence
shock us and disgust us. There was much in this
particular example to accentuate such impressions.
That one man, without the shadow of a legal right,
should arrest in their beds some dozens of the most
distinguished citizens of France, and should march them
off to prison under the guard of a file of soldiers, seemed
simply an act of coarse and brutal violence. The
British press took this view at once, and the Times
attacked the President daily in articles of great power
Iand of still                       On   tohnee--otwhheor  hand,
                                    was                    could
there were
     mgarneayt--erofvirwuhleonmce.
not forget that such an idea as the duty of faithful
allegiance to any form of Government had been long

1851]  THE COUP D'ETAT IN FRANCE                   345

destroyed in France by her repeated Revolutions, and
had ceased to exist as an acknowledged moral obliga
tion. They remembered, too, that the Prince-President
was simply an arch-plotter amongst other plotters,
and that the plebiscite in his favour gave him a
plausible, and perhaps even a real, claim to regard
his own authority as the one to which a great majority
Iof the French people looked for deliverance.
      had soon a curious illustration of the wide contrast
Ibetween the political and the journalistic mind in this

storm of opinion. My wife and had settled to join a
large family party in spending the month of December,
1851, at Castle Howard, the beautiful place of Lord
Carlisle, not far from York. The news of the coup
d'etat reached us on our journey, which we broke at

York, in order to call on Canon William Harcourt, one
of the most agreeable and distinguished among the
many younger sons of the old Archbishop Harcourt.
With Murchison, Sedgwick, De la Beche, and a few
others, he was one of the original founders of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science.
The whole multitudinous offspring of Archbishop Har
court were cousins of my wife. Cousinships are less
considered in England than in Scotland ; but even in
England a congenial friend is somewhat more valued
when he is a cousin, whilst less congenial cousins can be
ignored. There was not very much communication
Ibetween the Gowers and the Harcourts in my time,
except with Canon William,    tIo  whom      took  a great
liking from the first moment       saw him.    He  seemed

good, dignified, and wise, whilst his love of science

Iand of literature gave interest to his conversation. At

a date some years later than that am now speaking
of, when, by the death of his eldest brother George,
William Harcourt had succeeded to the family estates,
we visited him at the fine house, with the stately
groves which look down at Nuneham over rich meadows
upon shining reaches of the Thames close to Oxford.
On this occasion, in the end of 1851, we found him in

346           THE COUP D'ETAT                                   [chap. XVI

the house attached to his canonry under the shadow

of York Minster. There he introduced to us a new
fcrooumsin,Lohnidsonso--n,noawlsotheWilflaiar-mfa,mewdhoanhdad    just come
                                                                redoubtable
party leader, Sir William Harcourt.* A tall, hand
some youth, full of fire and fury on the subject of the
coup d'etat, against which he was reputed to be one of
the fulminators in the press,  hbee--waasblet,henvovluebryle,muucnh
what he has continued to
restrained, and vehement. Of course we talked of

Itwhat everybody else was talking of at the moment.
was at once apparent that the venerable Canon did
not at all sympathize with the violent interpretation
of his son, and the contrast was instructive between the

unmeasured and undisciplined views of the young
journalist and the calmer judgment of the old

philosopher.

   From York we proceeded to Castle Howard, and it
was in the midst of our quiet enjoyment of that fine
place, of that still finer house, and, best of all, of the
charming society it contained, that we found ourselves
confronted again in a new form with that sharp
antagonism of opinion on French politics which we
had seen so acute between Canon William Harcourt
and his son. Our host, Lord Carlisle, was suddenly
summoned to a Cabinet in London, and soon after
we heard that Lord John Russell had summarily dis
missed Lord Palmerston from the Foreign Office. The
cause assigned was that Palmerston, in conversation
with the French Ambassador, Walewski, had ex
pressed a decided sympathy with the Prince-Presi
dent, if not  actual approval of  his  daoc.tionIt.               This was
              an unguarded thing  to                            committed
undoubtedly
the British Government and the Crown to an opinion
which had never received any sanction from the
Cabinet. Palmerston, when called upon for an ex
planation, could give none that was satisfactory, and

              * Died October 1, 1904.

1851]        DISMISSAL OF LORD PALMERSTON             347

Lord John at once called upon him to resign the seals
of the Foreign Office. There was one circumstance
about this crisis in domestic politics which excited
special interest at Castle Howard : it was the choice
made by Lord John Russell of a successor to Pal-
merston. That choice fell upon Lord Granville, who

Iwas the nephew of old Lady Carlisle. It was not

without some amusement that saw myself, so far as
both relationship and friendship was concerned, be
coming more and more intimately associated with
the    Whig  Ministry.  theThfeamapilpyoianttmCeansttlewaHsownaortd.withIt
out          alloy to
       some
placed Granville at a bound in an office high in
importance above any which his cousin, Lord Carlisle,
had ever held, whilst Lord Carlisle had long held a
much more prominent place in general considera

tion. In speaking, Lord Carlisle was a considerable
orator, whilst his long tenure of the seat for the West
Riding of Yorkshire had marked him as one of the most
prominent members of the House of Commons. He

had been for some years in the Cabinet. It was there
fore not an altogether agreeable surprise to see himself
passed over as regarded the most important office
in the  wCearebinreetassohnosr--t osofutnhda, t  of   PrraimtheerMiinnidsetefirn.ableBu--t
there                                            yet
which accounted for and entirely justified Lord John
Russell's decision in favour of Granville. He was
popular in society, not merely on account of his very
agreeable powers of conversation, but for his great
good-temper, tact, and sagacity of character, and for
other qualities, in short, which it was more easy to
feel than to describe. The general impression of
ability he produced among all who knew him had
Ibegun to spread among his opponents in politics, as
well as among his friends.                            very well recollect
that, some years before this date, Granville had to
answer some question in the Lords on behalf of the
Government. This he did with a discretion and in
a manner which attracted the long-experienced eye

348                THE COOP D'ETAT                                             [chap, xvi

of Lord Aberdeen, who turned to me when Granville

Isat down, and said : ' think this is the best man
Ithey've got.' At this time wrote a letter to Lord
IAberdeen, a portion of which insert here :

  ' As to Palmerston, I have heard since I wrote to you the version
which I must presume to be his, from the source from which it
came to me ; and if it be quite correct, it does seem that he has

been rather sharply treated by his colleagues.

   ' When the French Minister called on 2nd December --before

any of the shooting affairs or the other more violent acts were
known --he explained the position of the President of France in

such  uanwofafyicitahlatintLeorrvdiewPa) lm"etrhsatot nthweascoinndduictieodn  to say (in a private
and                                                                            and danger of the

President being such as described, it seemed to him that he was
                                                     I am
justified,  on the principle of self-defence."                                 authentically
informed    that this was the utmost extent         of the
Ifwords only, and that nothing more passed.                                    words used --

                                                                               this be so, it seems

clear that no sufficient ground was given, by this alone, for such an
                                                                               only suppose that,
abrupt  sdaisym, iistsawl asbybuhtis"  colleagues,   and we can                the cup overflow.'
as you                                 the drop     which made

Still, as they have hitherto upheld him in more dangerous pranks,

explanation under these circumstances will not be easy.
   ' Granville was clearly the best man.

  ' I see that the Palmerston party --including some very good

Conservatives -- are furious about the Foreign Office affair, from a

Isuspicion of undue influence in a quarter represented by the Court.

But this seems to me great nonsense. There, as elsewhere, doubt

not, great dissatisfaction was felt at Lord Palmerston's conduct,

and satisfaction at his dismissal.'

I here allude to the first indication of unjustifiable
feeling against the Prince Consort which soon rose to
a storm. The Queen has since sanctioned the publica
tion of documents  wahbicohvefullleyttecro--nfitrhmatthePaclomnejerscttounre'ss
expressed in the
course of conduct for                     long time towards his
and his own colleagues                 a  had become intolerable               S--ovaenrdeiwgne

now know that the Queen had long been of opinion

1851-52]      FOSSIL LEAVES IK MULL                                            349

that it ought not to be submitted to. The explana
tions given in Parliament by Lord John Russell on
this subject threw a new light on the constitutional
rights of the Crown. One of these was, to be kept in
full and timely knowledge of every important step to
be taken by the Ministers, so that the personal mind
of the Sovereign might be expressed and duly weighed
IbyItthewaCsabinineMt.ay, 1852, that
                                                   first appeared as an
author on a scientific subject, in a paper communicated
tfoosstihl eleGaveeoslogIichaal dSofocuientdy  of  London on    certain new
                                               in  the Isle of
                                                                Mull. It is
not often that a beginner in any science makes in it
a discovery of considerable importance. Yet such
was my good fortune in the present case, and the
circumstances are curious. My special tastes and
reading had always been directed to the biological
branches of natural science, and especially to ornith
ology. During my boyhood geology was only being
Igradually built up in England by Lyell, Murchison,
oanf dmSyedfagtwhiecrk--. a   well recollect       hPeeatreinr gIravnineol--d  friend
                             certain George                                    telling
him at Ardencaple that he had a friend in the army
who used to be an excellent fellow and a most agree
able comrade, but who now thought and spoke only
of something that he called ' the Silurian System.'
The tone of scorn and ridicule with which this new and
apparently pompous title was pronounced remains to
Ithis day engraven on my memory. Otherwise, how

ever, heard nothing of geology in those early years,
except in connection with a favourite pursuit of my
father's intimate friend Smith of Jordanhill. That
                             dethade--ctohlelecltiivnigng       of marine
pursuit was    conchology,                                       shells by
shells, both  living and
dredging in his yacht, the dead by collecting all he
could get from the beds of clay to be found along the
shores, and often considerably above the existing
shores, within the limits of the ' old coast-line,' which
is a conspicuous feature in the estuary of the Clyde.

350       DISCOVERY OF ARDTUN LEAF-BED [chap, xvi

To this pursuit he was introduced accidentally by my
father, then Lord John Campbell. He was erecting
a saw-mill in 1835, and was digging the foundation at
the bottom of the steep bank which marks the old
coast-line. The excavation uncovered a mass of stiff
blue clay, in which a good many sea-shells were found.
My father noticed the fact as interesting, and directed
to it the attention of his friend Jordanhill. He took
it up at once, and pursued the investigations syste
matically. Smith soon began to observe that, among
the shells found in the lower beds of clay which had
been left upon an older sea-line, there were many
different from any now to be found in the adjacent
waters ; and, further, he observed that several of these
older shells were of a species now living in the Arctic
          Once set upon this scent,      hceonpculurssiuoend--itthatot
regions.  legitimate and necessary
its only
the sea which washed the shores of the West of Scot
land in the ages when it stood from 50 to 60 feet
lower than it does now must have been a sea existing
under conditions of Arctic cold. This result he com

municated to the scientific societies so early as 1839,
fortified by a long and conclusive series of observations
and of specimens. Smith of Jordanhill was therefore
the real founder of the Glacial Theory,  which
so great a part in recent geology.              has played
                                         It is  commonly
assigned to Agassiz, but he did not visit this country
till 1840, and his arguments were open to dispute.
Smith had prepared the way for whatever success
Agassiz had in pointing to the agency of ice as that
which would alone account for certain markings and
mechanical effects visible on our rock surfaces.
Of course, Agassiz's reasoning on the cause of these
mechanical effects was in a moment rendered easy of
acceptance when it fitted in so completely with the
zoological fact, otherwise and previously ascertained,
that a glacial molluscous fauna had lived and flourished
in our seas at a time so comparatively recent. The
claim of Smith of Jordanhill to priority in this dis

1852]  THE GLACIAL AGE                      351

covery is admitted by all authorities on the history of
geological knowledge. Much, indeed, has been dis
covered, and much more has been imagined, since his
time in respect to the Glacial Age. No part, however,
Iof the science has been more cumbered with fads and
faddists, and question    whether any one   fact has been
as yet so clearly proved  as that which he  established --
namely, the occurrence in very recent geological times

of a cold and glacial, but a quiet and tranquil, sea,
which endured so long on our coasts that it had time
to cut out a broad and well-marked terrace on which
a peculiar assemblage of shell-fish, now common in
Iceland, lived and died on deposits of mud and clay,
which are now often many feet above the highest tide,
Ibut have never been broken or disturbed.

    Although as a lad had often heard Smith talking
on the subject, and had seen his enthusiastic search
Ifor new shells,  had never myself taken further
Inotice of geology, nor had picked up its bearings on
Inatural problems of the greatest curiosity and interest.

All that had heard lay in my mind embedded and
covered up by other material, like seeds in the ground
Iwhich are dormant, but ready to germinate when
favourable conditions come.  had always eyes wide,
Ibut ignorantly, open to the observation of everything

in external nature, and always had a vague sense of
the innumerable problems which they suggest, but

Iabout 1851 had taken to reading about geology more
Ior less. In that year my wife and made one of our
usual visits to the estates in Mull, and lived some little
time at the village of Bunessan. Though not in itself
a beautiful spot, its surroundings are both beautiful
and magnificent, particularly the great headland of
Bourg, 1,600 feet high, in which the volcanic ranges
of Ben More terminate precipitously in the sea. One
day the leading shopkeeper in the village, an in
telligent man of the name of McDiarmid, told me that
in climbing down a ravine in the rocks near the mouth
of Loch Laigh, at the head of which Bunessan is

352  DISCOVERY OF ARDTUN LEAF-BED       [chap, xyi

situated, he had taken hold of a projecting ledge of
stone, which had broken off with his weight, and on
the slice of it which remained in his hand he was sur
prised to see what seemed to be the impression of a

Ileaf of a tree. At my request he brought it to me,

and was greatly surprised to see the most beautifully-
preserved impression of a very large forest leaf,

Iapparently that of a sycamore or of a platanus. The

venation was all preserved, and could detect even
Isome remains of the substance of the leaf in a
delicate pellicle of vegetable matter.  at once asked

McDiarmid to go to the place and bring me some
larger specimens. This was now done, and my sur
prise was much increased to find that large blocks of
stone were almost entirely composed of a mass of
vegetable leaves of all sorts and kinds. The platanus
was most conspicuous ; but there were quantities of
equisetum, or ' mare's tails,' of yew, of leaves like
that of the alder, of the rose, and of many others.

In short, it gave me the idea of a hardened mud
crammed full of a forest vegetation which had
fallen year after year into some still pool or back
water, and which had thus become matted with the
rotten foliage. Associated with the bed of leaves
there were two other beds, well marked and distinct,
one below and the other above the leaf-bed, consisting
in the upper one of a pudding-stone of chalk flints,
which had the aspect of having been burnt, and in
the lower one of what looked like the ashes of
a volcano, mixed with fragments of indurated chalk.
The whole series was capped on the surface by a thick
bed of basaltic rock, while the beds themselves rested

on the top of a high precipice of columnar basalt, with
pillars as regular and perfect as those of Staffa, which
I Iwas only six miles away.
      did not then know, nor, indeed, do now know,
all the inferences to be drawn from those embedded
Ileaves, because they suggest many questions which I
have never yet seen solved ; but        saw enough to



1852]              FOSSIL LEAF-BEDS                                    353

Irouse , my curiosity thoroughly.                  sent off specimens
Ito Sir Henry de la Beche, whom had known when
he was founding the Museum of Practical Geology

in Craig's Court, which afterwards attained such a
splendid development in the institution in Jermyn

IStreet. On going to London in the spring of 1852,
saw him, and after questioning me whether the leaves
were   Icewratasinqlyuituendseurreneaotfhthtahte,  basalt, and
him                                                he at once   my    temlleingI
                                                                told
had ' made a very pretty point,' and advised me to
make it the subject of a public paper. My dear old
friend Smith of Jordanhill, whose early affection for
my father and mother overflowed upon me as long as
he lived, was highly delighted by my discovery. He
went off to Mull as soon as he could in his yacht, and
with the apparatus of ropes and fathom-lines available
from her, he made a careful measurement of the whole

precipice and of each and all of the beds. These data
he supplied to me, and my paper was published in
the Journal       the Geological Society of London for May,
1852. This   of   not the place to enter on any details

              is
as to the significance in science of the discovery of the
Ardtun leaf-beds. Suffice it to say that for the first
time it indicated the geological age of the enormous
prolonged volcanic outbursts which have covered with
lava a vast area   of country, extending from                    Antrim
in Ireland to the  Faroe Islands in the North
                                                                Sea. It
proved those   --outthbautrstiss  to  have been    not submarine,
but subaerial                     to  say, they    were outbursts

through and upon old surfaces of land, where a splendid
vegetation had had quiet intervals of time to begin
to flourish and to accumulate, until they were again
overwhelmed by fresh outbursts of volcanic violence.
No other spot in the whole of that great area of
broken fragments of an ancient land had furnished
Ianything like the evidence to this effect which is so
beautifully  preserved  eavterArsdintcuen.I             must confess,   too,
that at the  time and                              have been filled    with

the most profound scepticism regarding the extreme
vol. i.
                                                                23

354     DISCOVERY OF ARDTUN LEAF-BED [chap, xvi

doctrine of uniformity in the agencies of change,
which became popular, if not established, under the
old teaching of Hutton, and was systematized and
argued with great ability by my friend Sir Charles
Lyell.
   Whilst the physical  Isciences in one of their branches
were thus exercising
                        their old attraction over me,
was, during those years, reading a good deal and
Ithinking a good deal more on questions of philosophy.

In particular read Bishop Butler with care, having
IccoahasnirleeyIfflusytllhigforshuoetgmllfhy-rteolosnohterkiasefiednsattity--nultreoes,o--hitnmhafoambuteenfildonyr,ei.qittusegDscatoirinonyensdpasincudaupbodoouinvsffeicamunaeldlt,l
others the most difficult, one never had the fear of being
entrapped into unsound conclusions by the undue
itdnhrfialsunekunncinespaeosafkaaebcnlaethrdumisniaaelsrimttriunotrhaothfpehfiaolonnsecoyp.ghreicaBatul itd,wearbi--teeyrto,hnadtI

if a Divine Being is the Author both of Nature and of
every higher revelation of Himself, it is sure to happen
that the same difficulties which arise in the one sphere
will more or less be felt, at least by analogy, in the
other.  This lies at the root of all Butler's teaching.
        cognate with much that had been impressed
It was
upon my own mind as a boy in the study of animal
mechanics, in which, as it seemed to me, the proofs
of a living and understanding author were direct and
Iimmediate, yet so easily ignored and even so angrily

denied. The more thought of it, the sounder did
IButler's fundamental conception of an analogy appear
to me to be.  knew, indeed, that the particular

objections against religion which he dealt with in his
Itime were not the same as those most common at a later

date, but knew also that the more modern views of
the same tendency were connected with the interpre
Itations and suggestions which arose out of the progress

of the physical sciences since Butler's time, and could
not doubt that if this fundamental principle was as

1852] ELECTED CHANCELLOR OF ST. ANDREW'S                        355

sound as it seemed to me to be, it would be found as
Iapplicable to all that we can know of Nature now as

to all that was known of Nature then. know, indeed,
Ithat a new school has arisen which affects to treat

Butler with contempt, but observe that it is a
school which is blind to the power of analogy in all
the operations of the mind, to the place it takes and
the part it plays in everything that we can understand,
    Iatnweaxsplaatnaatiotinmeof             in the world.
as                                anything  mind had come
                                 when my
                                                            to  be  a
good deal occupied with these subjects that the
University of St. Andrews, the most ancient in Scot
land,did                                                    its Chan
    -- an                                                    no local
Icellor
                 me the   honour    of electing    me   as
                  honour   all the   greater as        had
Iconnection with the East of Scotland.                      found it
Iwas expected that should deliver an address to the
Istudents at the ceremony           of      m18y52i.nstaItllawtiaosn.entiTrehliys
   accordingly did on March
                                    25,

successful, so far as regarded the close attention of
the audience, which included all the professors of the
University and a number of old ' Alumni.' The
Icriticism passed upon it        atItthewotiumlde  by some was that
                                                   have been great
it was too theological.
affectation in me if had made it classical ; and, as

the tendency of the Scottish mind is much more philo
Isophical than classical, thought it best to speak on
Ithat subject on which had thought the most, and
Iwhich my address was most likely to be of use.                 oInt

was in this address that foreshadowed much of                   my
Iown future intellectual work in one sentence, when
said that an endeavour to bring the great argument
of Butler abreast of the science of the present time ought
to be the labour of our day.

  IIn the autumn of this year, 1852, my wife and
spent some time in one of our frequent visits to the
ISutherlands at Dunrobin. Besides fishing and some

shooting, passed one most interesting day in geolo
gI izfionugndon   the  seashore at Helmsdale. To my surprise,
                 the   shore covered with fossilized wood and

                                                       23--2

356                   GEOLOGICAL RESEARCH                 [chap, xvi

with shales, in one of which I detected the tail of a
fossil fish, apparently of what is called the homo-
Icereal type. The lumps of fossil wood were so

abundant that could have easily filled a cart, and
it was to me curious to observe that the aspect of
wood and fibre was so entirely unchanged by con
version into the mineral substance of a sUicious lime
Istone that the most inexperienced eye could not fail

to detect it at once. One specimen found which
interested me  greatly, from      the   measure     it presented
of the epochs  of geological     time.               the root of
                                          It was
one of the trees whose branches afforded the quan
tities of fossil wood all around. This root had been

growing on the shales which were the subsoil of those

old forests, and it had grasped with so firm a hold
some layers of stone that when the tree was uprooted
by winds or floods, its roots had carried away portions

Iof the rock with it. picked out one of these bits of
Isandy shale, and on handling it, observed that it

contained in it one scale of a ganoid fish, like those
belonging to the old red fishes so common in the flag
             of Caithness.     That scale told      tale  indeed.
sIttonheasd  belonged to    a  fish that swam   a   the   old red
seas or lakes. The           mud of that sea
                                                in
                            It had been then
verted into  Itstohnae.d                        had been con
dry land.                   next supported a     elevated into
                                                 fine forest of
Araucarian pines. These, again, had been destroyed
and submerged and fossilized. But the root had never
let go its grip upon the rock on which it had stood,
which told of a much older world, as compared with
which the now long-vanished Araucarians were young
indeed.
   Before    leaving  the North  of Scotland    I paid    a visit
to the little town of Cromarty, the residence at that
time of the celebrated Hugh Miller, whose geological
and literary works had so lately astonished and
charmed the world. He received me very kindly,
showed me over his collection of fossils, and pre
sented me with a fine specimen of one of those

1852]                           HUGH MILLER                                                      357

' ichthyolite ' nodules which he had so vividly de

Iscribed in his admirable book on ' The Old Red Sand

stone.' This specimen still carefully preserve and
shciigehnclye.valuIte,waass  one of classic interest in the                                               of
                              a great delight and interest                                       history  to
                                                                                                  to me
see and have some conversation with this remarkable
Iman.
I' The
       Old    had        been much                             '  --fatshceinafitrestd   by his   work on
              Red        Sandstone                                                      book     ever read
Iwhich cast the light and the charm of poetry on the
twdhrreyiteuprnasi--tvhesmrseoitnfiesswc--ihenodceecw.laerree  had heard the most learned
                                                               students and professors in
                                                               that they would give their
ears to be able to write as this new author wrote on
       lessons of geology. And
the    an ordinary working-man                                      --yeat nheopwearsatirveepormteadsonto,
be
whose youth had been spent in building walls and
Ilaying mortar, and in cutting stones with chisel and
mallet in his hands.                  was immensely curious to see
him, and my curiosity was well repaid.
   Hugh   Miller continued to                                             in            owuotwrkainrdg-maaspne--ct
exactly  what he had always                                          be   --a
                                                                    been
without a trace of social culture in his manners or
appearance. He had, indeed, a low and gentle voice,
which sounded shy, but his accent was unlike that of
Itahnouegdhutcfautle--dit        His
                         man.   very                           expression was more than
                           was                                 grave, meditative, and ab
stracted ; but saw in a moment the secret of his
being. He had an enormous head, made still larger
in appearance by a huge shock of unkempt hair, which
Ihung over his brows and eyes. There have been only

four men whom have come across in life who have
had the enormous brain-case which was conspicuous
in Hugh Miller. One was Dr. Thomas Chalmers ;
another was Sir James Simpson ; the third was Hugh
Miller ; and the fourth             was Professor                                       Whewell, Master
of Trinity, and author             of the ' History                                     of the Inductive
                                                                    of
Sciences.'    --Ththeesye    were  all                         men  of  more than what we
                             were  all                         men
call ability                                                            genius. With such
a brain nothing is impossible, provided only it be fur-

358        HUGH MILLER                         [chap, xvi

nished with a very few simple tools. We are too apt
to forget how admirably such tools have been fashioned
and   put  into the hands of the   humIfblaesstchcolalsasresfroinmScoonte
land   in  her parochial schools.
of these schools was guided by his own inborn tastes
and instincts to spend his spare time in solid and sub
stantial reading, instead of devouring trash, it is easy
to understand how quickly he might climb the ladder.
Hugh Miller was one of those who was thus led to feed
upon a few good books, such as were common in his
youth. This it is which explains the fact that when
Robert Burns, the ploughman poet, began to cor
respond, his earliest letters were those of an educated
gentleman. So when Hugh Miller took a walking
tour through England, he produced another charming
book, which shows that he had been long familiar
with not a few of the classic authors of English litera
ture. He made pilgrimages to the homes of great
authors, and trod on the walks of Hume, on the paths
of Olney and the Leasowes.* As to style, Hugh Miller's
writings are a signal proof how little may be due to
any example, still less to any imitation.
Dr. Johnson has said that whoever would desire
Ito have a polished English style ' must give his days
and his nights to the pages of Addison.'       venture to
think that this is nonsense. Hugh Miller's English
           aasndgooofdchaasrmAd. disIotn'sis,   and far more full of
is quite                                       the brain that makes
thought
style in writing, just as it is the brain that makes the
harmonies of line and colour in painting, and of sound

Iand sense in poetry. In speaking to Hugh Miller,
Ifelt that was speaking to a born genius, and the
roughness of the setting seemed to me only to set off

more distinctly the native brilliance of the gem. It
was a sad misfortune for Hugh Miller, for science,
and for Scotland, when the managers of the Free
Church chained him to the galley-oar by appointing

           * The home of Shenstone.

1852]  THE FATE OF HUGH MILLER                       359

him editor of a mere party newspaper. This was not
work for him. He felt the strain, and spoke of the
constant work  woafstceu. ttinIgt  shavings off his  brain as a
burden and a                       helped to break   him down,
until one of the finest minds which Scotland has pro
duced in my time fell into the shadows of mental
distress and into the catastrophe of self-destruction.

                     CHAPTER XVII

                           1852

fadlelrboyf's  lord  john  russell's government --lord

                and  lord  Aberdeen's administrations

I must now, with regret, return to politics. The year
1852 was a highly critical one among Parliamentary
parties, and yet a year singularly destitute of the
nobler interests which ought to belong to them.

Whether Lord John Russell had been wise or not
in his choice of a subject on which to quarrel with
Palmerston, he undoubtedly acted with dignity and
courage in dismissing a Minister so powerful, when
he knew that his own position was so weak. Palmerston
lost no time in wreaking his vengeance. On a question
about the militia he moved a vote adverse to the
proposition of the Government, and as the Tories
were now eager to come into office, they supported
IPalmerston, and at last the Whig Government fell,

never to rise again. ' have had my tit for tat with
John Russell,' was Palmerston's own description of
his conduct, in writing to his brother at Naples.
   When the Queen sent for Lord Derby, as the leader
of the largest of the parties that composed the majority,
he had no choice but to accept the duty. But as no
union had as yet been effected with any other section
in the House, he had to make a Cabinet of raw recruits,
of men hardly any one of whom had been in high office
before, and who now found themselves suddenly made
IPrivy Councillors,  and put in          of   tJh.e
                       remember  charge  Sir          highest
offices of State.                seeing              Graham

                           360

1852]       LORD DERBY'S FIRST GOVERNMENT                 361

give his grave head a portentous shake when he
spoke of the novel precedent of a whole cargo of the
rank and file being carried down to Windsor to be
Imade members of   the Privy       CIotunwcails,  before they could
                   of office.                     a signal proof of
receive the seals  have given of Disraeli's rise. So
the explanation
far as the Conservative party was concerned, all the
old and experienced counsellors of the State were off
the Board at which he was to sit supreme. There
was literally not a creature to control him, except
Lord Derby himself ; and a Prime Minister in the
Lords cannot control a cunning and audacious leader
in the House of Commons. Besides which, Lord
Derby, though a splendid speaker, was not very well
fitted to enforce the authority of his opinions on
others, or to keep his Cabinet in subordination. He
was too rollicking, too apt to treat everything as a
joke ; the  Itrescuoltmmwaasndead  Government obviously
visional.                            no sure majority in  pro
                                                           the
House, and until it was seen what a Protectionist

Government was going to do about Protection, nobody
of the Free Trade sections of the House would support
Ithem, or do anything but watch and wait. For

myself, never had the smallest doubt that Protection
would be thrown overboard by the astute practitioner,
who, it was quite evident, had used it only for his own
purposes and to keep his party in hand. Accordingly,
Disraeli, in language of extraordinary effrontery, soon
made this apparent, and the poor dupes whom he had
so long rallied under pompous and ambiguous phrases
were left discomfited and crestfallen.

   The moment it became certain that all danger of a
return to Protection was a thing of the past, there
remained nothing but personal feelings and the
associations of long antagonism to prevent all the
Free Trade sections from uniting to form a new and
a strong Government. The whole year was spent in
attempts, by endless interviews and correspondence, to
realize this aspiration, which, indeed, was the strong

362 LORD DERBY FORMS AN ADMINISTRATION [chap, xto

and just desire of the people. But personal and party
feelings, intensified by hereditary traditions, ran so
high that, till the close of the year, little or no progress
was made. There were two or three dominant facts
in the situation. The first was that the leadership of
Lord John Russell had become invincibly distasteful
to everybody except a small personal and family
clique. The second was that Lord John Russell
could not be got to see this, and was naturally un
willing to withdraw his claim to a place to which he
thought himself entitled by great, and, indeed, immortal,
services to the Liberal party. But Catholic Emancipa
tion and the Abolition of Sacramental Tests, and the
Reform of Parliament, too, had all lost their flavour to
the public, and nothing was remembered but the long
and inefficient Whig Governments of Lord Melbourne

and of Lord John himself. All men were impatient at

the very idea of a renewal of that sort of thing. On
the other hand, the Peelite party was full of brilliant
individual ability, and their services to fiscal reform
during their short tenure of office had made a deep
impression on the public mind. Yet there was no
one of them entitled as a matter of course to step into
the shoes of their great leader. Palmerston was out
of the question : he had just made himself too offensive

to Imt owreasseicntiotnhsestehacnircounme stances that men began to

cast about for one of the resources of our constitution
which has been often tried. There are at least three
kinds of Prime Minister in our country. First, there
are a few men of such commanding genius that the
first place comes to them as by right of birth. Of

this class the younger Pitt is an illustrious example.

Next there are men who have begun at the bottom
of the official tree, have climbed up all its branches,
have served in a great variety of offices, and dis
tinguished themselves in all. These are the ' all-
round men,' who naturally and inevitably reach the
top. Of these Peel was an excellent example. But

1852] DIFFERENT KINDS OF PRIME MINISTERS 363

there is another class of Prime Minister, consisting of
men who have lived a long life just outside the headiest
currents of political contention, but with a native
strength and probity of character which has received
universal recognition, and has secured universal respect
and honour. These are the men round whom rival poli
ticians will sometimes cluster when they will refuse
to serve under each other. During the course of
1852 there were two men of this class, towards whom
many eyes were directed with a wandering hope. One
was Henry Petty, Marquis of Lansdowne, who had
once been Chancellor of the Exchequer in far-off days,
who had always been connected with the Whig party,
but for many years had taken no very active part in
political contention, and under whom, with his dignified
position and character, any man might serve with con
fidence and honour. Even Lord John Russell, it was
supposed, might well consent to do so. The other of
the two men who occupied a somewhat similar position
was the Earl of Aberdeen ; his name, however, was
not much brought forward until, at the very close of
the year, it was found to be the only one possible
 round which the jarring elements could be made to
 crystallize.

   In the autumn of 1852 everything was still in a

 condition of complete uncertainty, and consultations
 were continual through various ' go-betweens.' A
 leading one of these was Lord John Russell's elder
 brother, Francis, Duke of Bedford, through whom
 intimations could be safely made that might have
 been otherwise resented. Among the Peelites there
 were some vague symptoms of possible change. Glad
 stone was supposed to gravitate towards Lord Derby ;
 Sir James Graham towards Lord John, who was
 known to be inventing a trump-card by which to
 captivate the constituencies and regain his power.
 This was a new Reform Bill, for the Whig mind was
 then destitute of any fresh idea, and tinkering the
 machinery of Parliament was the only shot in their

364 LORD DERBY FORMS AN ADMINISTRATION [chap, xrn

Ilocker. Nobody, so far as could find out, was then
in favour of this plan of campaign against Lord
Derby. But some were less disinclined than others,
and there was a general impression that, if launched
by a man in Lord John's position, it might be difficult
to resist it.

  It was in the midst of these doubts and difficulties
that Lord Aberdeen became more and more a centre
of correspondence and consultation, because all sections
confided in his incorruptible integrity and simplicity
of character, in the moderation of his opinions, and
in the complete absence in him of any personal
ambition. He, on the other hand, was anxious to
help by finding out from all his friends what was the
tendency of their views. Among others he invited
Ime to visit him in his country place, Haddo in
Aberdeenshire, and as                             was     Inagtluardalylly    desirous   to
know his views, my wife                           and                       accepted    his
invitation, taking Haddo on our way south from Dun-
robin in October, 1852. There is no way so good of
getting to know a man intimately as to be with him
in his own house. The home of Lord Aberdeen
seemed the home also of all the domestic virtues, and
of an intense earnestness and simplicity of character
which was specially his own. One thing rather sur
Iprised me : in speaking of Lord John's disposition

to start another reform movement, found that Lord
Aberdeen, although well known                               as a Tory in foreign
phoomliteicsp, owlitaiscss--o 'thLaibterisal   '  as to   be almost a Radical in
                                                    say,  he had seen so much
                                              to

blood and treasure poured out to reach the Con
tinental Settlement of 1815 that he dreaded any
departure from it ; but as regarded home politics, he
was ready to entertain very large proposals of de
Iparture from  otnhewsheicthtlemI ecnotuldof               1832. This was the
                                                          not quite agree with
only subject
him. thought that the £10 franchise had worked and
was working well, taking in, as it did, all the middle and
the lower middle classes, together with such members of

1852]  THE PEELITES AND THE WHIGS      365

Ithe wage-earning classes as had raised themselves a

little by industry and thrift. But told Lord Aber
deen that a redistribution of seats was a branch of
reform in which a good deal might be done with dis
tinct advantage, since the Reform Bill of 1832 had
left far too many boroughs with two seats, and the
seats gained by a new schedule of disfranchisement
Imight be advantageously disposed of among larger
constituencies.   found that Lord Aberdeen had no
prepossession on the matter, partly from the habit of
official men not to look at any subject closely till the
time for action upon it is within sight, and partly from
a curious confidence in the fundamental loyalty of
Ithe British people to the constitutional system under
which they live.  therefore saw that, so far as
Lord Aberdeen was himself concerned, there was no
obstacle to his acting with Lord John  cRluesasre--ll nainmealnyy,
combination. But more than this was
that, so far as concerned any political question at that
time even in sight, there was nothing to prevent a
combination between the Peelites as a group and the
old Whigs, except the discredit into which the Whigs
had fallen, and, of course, the remains of an old and
long antagonism. So completely did the Peelite posi
tion correspond to that of the old Whig party, that
it was recognised by Lord John Russell himself, in a
saying ascribed to him at the time, when someone had
suggested that the word Whig should be given up as
nothing but an impediment in the way of union.
Lord John's reply was both humorous and true. He

said that he could not do it, even if he would ; and
the necessity was not apparent, seeing that Whig was
a word which expressed in one syllable all that seven
syllables were needed to express, in the Peelite title of
' Liberal Conservatives.'
   Disraeli, of course, at that time had obvious in

ducements to prevent any union of parties if he could.
A union between the Peelites and the Whigs would
have constituted a powerful opposition. On the

366 LORD DERBY FORMS AN ADMINISTRATION [chap, xvii

other hand, a union between any of the Peelites
and Lord Derby                  would have destroyed      hiIst  own
solitary reign in a             Cabinet of mediocrities.         was,
therefore, perfectly understood that he did not favour
either of the alternatives, and that he did his best to
render both impossible. By keeping up the farce of
Protectionist language till the last possible moment, he
effectually barred out all the Peelites from any com

bination with Lord Derby, and when the Cabinet of
novices was once formed, it was too late to make any
               in that direction.
attIemlepftt  Haddo with a confirmed  and enhanced        estimate
of the high qualities of Lord Aberdeen's character and
mind, of the sagacity and moderation of his opinions,
of his just and tolerant views of other men, of his
Isingular simplicity, sincerity, and absolute truthful

ness. On the one subject on which he and had held
such different opinions, Church politics, we never
touched, and we had no need to do so, since there was
then no Church question in agitation. We both,
though from different points of view, supported the
Established Church, and it gave me pleasure to see
that he went to the parish church on Sunday, unlike
too many of the land-owners in Scotland, who stood
systematically aloof from the Church of the people.
The new Cabinet of Lord Derby had for the first
time to confront the new Parliament early in November,
1852, and on the 18th of that month the funeral of the
Duke of Wellington took place. That great man had
died in the middle of September, but his body had been
kept above ground until Parliament should decide how
he was to be buried. Tennyson's immortal ode has
embalmed for ever in superb poetry the mingled
feelings of sorrow and of gratitude, the universal
feelings of the people.
of Thaerseolidsienro--thtihneg  so pathetic as the ordinary funeral
                                riderless horse, the simple gun-
carriage, the coffin with the old accountrements, the
idle sword, the mournful music, and the measured

1852]  FUNERAL OF DUKE OF WELLINGTON  367

step of former comrades, constitute the most touching

of human obsequies. But all this was well-nigh
lost in the great procession for the Duke of Wel
lcianrg,tocno.ncTeihveedcoifnfinthweaswcoorsntcepaloesdsibinle a thasidteeo--usenfournmeroaul-s
in bulk without being imposing. When we had
seen it pass, from the garden of Stafford House,
we went by an arranged route to reach St. Paul's
in time to join the peers and peeresses, to whom
places had been assigned. Mourning does not lend
itself to pageant, and an enormous crowd of people
dressed in black, ranged in tiers of seats, supported
by scaffolding, did not add to the solemnity of
Wren's magnificent interior. But there was one part
of the ceremony which redeemed all others, and that
was when the coffin, placed on trestles in the middle
of the pavement, and surrounded by the Duke's old
companions-in-arms, was seen to be very slowly sink
ing, moved by some unseen mechanism, through an
aperture in the floor into the crypt beneath. The
sinking was so slow, so noiseless, that it only gradually
became perceptible. The circle of fine old veterans
who surrounded it, all in full uniform, kept^their
hands steadily on the coffin as it descended. Con
spicuous among them were Lord Hardinge, Lord
Londonderry, and Lord Anglesey. Slowly the coffin
sank, so low that they all had to stoop to keep in touch
with it. But this they did with an affectionate
devotion which it was most moving to see. Very few
seemed to be stiff with age, but one of them, Lord

ILondonderry, was so evidently lame that could not
help fearing he might fall down upon the coffin as he
Istrained his arms downwards to follow his beloved
commander.  recollect nothing more, but that scene
is indelibly impressed upon my memory as one never
to be forgotten. Thirty-seven years had then passed
since Wellington had closed his glorious campaigns on
the field of Waterloo, and it did seem wonderful to see

there so many of those who fought under him then,

368 DEFEAT OF LORD DERBY'S GOVERNMENT [chap, xvii

and, in earlier days, in the Peninsula, still living, and

standing, as upright as ever, round that bier. Lord
Anglesey, in particular, a tall and very handsome man,
looked magnificent, and all were visibly bearing them
selves under strong and suppressed emotion.
We did not remain in London long after the Duke's
funeral. The great battle which was to decide the
fate of the Derby Cabinet had to be fought in the
House of Commons, where it was of course foreseen
that Disraeli's first Budget would reveal his policy,
and would    inIevtiotoakblynoafpfoarrdt  opportunities of decisive
opposition.                               in the preliminary skir
Imishes in the Lords about the precise terms in which
Protection was to be given up.            wished to retain my
own attitude of reserve in the political rearrangements
which it was quite obvious must very soon ensue, and

Ion the only occasion on which opened my mouth at
Iall in the Lords, on the 30th November, asked Lord
Derby to undertake some measure dealing with the
then delicate subject of religious tests in the Universi
ties of Scotland. This Lord Derby, in a very courteous
reply, declined  to pledge himself        Itosadido,  but
opinions which    in my rejoinder                               expressed
                                                      were       likely to
Ido good in Scotland. So far the footing on which
placed myself was consistent with the attitude of
neutrality and suspense which             Iwtaswasnantuortallestso     the
circumstances of the moment.                                          con
sistent with that                         IlelaevftingmyLopnrdooxny   in
the first days of  attitude that, on                                  in
                   December, 1852,
the hands of Lord Aberdeen.

   We   tohnenourer tuwrnaeyd--tooneRotsoneaTtrhe,nthpaamyi,ng   two  family
visits                                                          and   one to
my sister-in-law, Lady Blantyre, at Erskine on the
DCleycdeem. beDr is3rrade. li'sIt  financial statement was made        on
                                   was audacious and aggressive in    the

highest degree, and included some changes, especially
one on the incidence of the income-tax and of the
Ihouse-duty, which involved the greatest questions it
was possible to raise.             at once wrote to Lord Aber

1852]            GLADSTONE AND DISRAELI                                                                        369

deen expressing the strongest objections to parts of
tdphaireretscscthoetfmaxeiat, --tbiouanst--, alfwsoooruelexdxparermescpseilneivg,e  a hope that some other
                                                                                    the extended area of

                                                                                      careful consideration
at a time when indirect taxation was being so greatly
reduced. Gladstone's reply to Disraeli's speech and
statement at the end of  the debate was                                                     inonemyofttimhee.moIstt
powerful ever delivered  in Parliament
was usual in such cases to allow a Minister to have the
last word, and to close the debate. But when on the
I IIfourth night of the

Disraeli ended with
                 thdeebaceteleb(rDaetecdempbaesrsag1e6,th,'                                                   1852)

                                                                                                            Yes,
know what have to face : have to face a coalition,'

etc., Gladstone started to his feet, and, facing the howls
and shouts of another coalition, which tried to drown

his voice, delivered a passionate rebuke for the licence
of Disraeli's attack, and then proceeded to an admirable

analysis of the whole scheme, an analysis which left it
shattered on the ground. The division condemned
the Government by a majority of nineteen, and next
day Lord Derby resigned.
Thereupon the Queen showed her sense of the
necessity  of a  reorganization   of                                                pamretine--s bfoyr  sending, not
for some   one   man, but for    two                                                                     Lord Lans-

downe as representing the Whigs, and for Lord Aber
deen as representing the Liberal Conservatives. Lord
Lansdowne was unwell, and the Queen then sent for

Lord Aberdeen alone, into whose hands she committed
the task of forming a united Government of such
materials  as he could command.
           a great satisfaction to                                                  me  at  that        time,  as  it
  It was
has been ever since, to remember that, from my
           from Haddo late       Iin   October to the time at
departure  are now arrived,           had no connection with
which we

or knowledge of the personal correspondence which
was carried on, by the leading members of both parties,
with Lord Aberdeen, on their respective relations to
each other, and on the bases on which they might
probably consent to act together. None of them
vol. i.
                                                                                                        24

370 lord Aberdeen's coalition ministry [chap, xm

Icorresponded with me. My position was peculiar.

Although Peelite in general sympathies, was too
young to be actually one of the Peelite group. That
group consisted of men all of whom had been colleagues
Iunder Sir Robert Peel, and the leading members of the
party had all been members of his Cabinet.                                  had
never been in office at all, and none of these men were

less than half a generation older than myself. With
the Whigs, on the other hand, although some of their

Ileaders were my intimate friends and connections,
Icould hardly correspond at this time, because they

knew that had already been approached by Lord
IeJoxhprnessRugssroeull,ndanthdathaI dsarwefuasreedcotnostrjuocintionhimof  on the
                                                                            parties
to be inevitable, and that did not wish to anticipate

the combinations which might arise.
My position, therefore, was one of complete detach
Iment and independence, except that on all questions

then likely to emerge had come to place almost entire

Iconfidence in the wisdom, moderation, and sagacity of

Lord Aberdeen. When saw the announcement that
he had been  sent for  by  the Queen, and   hIadthaocucgehptteidt
the task of  forming   an  Administration,

possible, perhaps probable, that he would make to me
Isome such offer as Lord John Russell had previously

made, but although had not then any adequate
Iconception of the immense difficulties he had to en-

encounter, knew that a whole crowd of men from
both sections would consider themselves aggrieved if
Ithey were not included, whilst the inclusion of them all
was a physical impossibility.  had never intimated
Ito Lord Aberdeen the smallest desire for office, nor

had ever fully realized the probability that he could
be the head of a new united Government. Then there
I I Iwere many subordinate offices fitted for my age which

  felt could not accept. From some was excluded
by being a peer, from others by my health, which was

Inever very strong. A few only, therefore, remained

which were suitable to my circumstances, and felt

1852]          OFFER FROM LORD ABERDEEN              371

that for these there would be older candidates with
more pressing claims. When, therefore, a week had
passed since Lord Aberdeen had begun his work, and

Ino communication had come from him, thought

iintcnluodteimmpero. baIbtlewatsh,atcohnesehqaudenftolyu,ndanitaigmrepeoasbsleiblesutro

Iprise when, on the morning of the 25th December,

1852, received at Rosneath the following letter :

' My dear Duke,

          ' You will have been informed of the occupation in which

I have been for some days, and still am, engaged.
  ' In composing the new Administration, I am very desirous of

having your assistance, and I trust that you may not be unwilling
to join us.
   ' As it is now probable that my present work will be brought to

a successful termination, I would propose to you to take the office

of Lord Privy Seal, with a seat in the Cabinet. This would not

impose any serious amount of official labour upon you, and would

leave you free for the exercise of your ability in the House of

Lords, of which we shall stand much in need.

   'The House will be adjourned to-day to Monday next, when

I trust my list will be complete, and my explanatory statement

will be made.    ' Believe me, my dear Duke,
                               ' Ever truly yours,
                                              ' Aberdeen.'

ITo this letter  sent the following immediate
reply :
   ' My dear Lord Aberdeen,                                     ' Rosneath,
        ' Any help I can possibly                     ' December 25th, 1 852.
                                   afford you in the important work

you have undertaken is most heartily at your disposal, and would

have been so, whether attached to you by office or not. But I
Ihope need hardly assure you that I feel sincerely gratified by the

estimate you have been kind enough to express of the value you

put upon my services. It will be a great pleasure to me to serve
under a Minister whom I have always looked up to as a public

                                              24--2

372  APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL                                        [chap, xvn

man, and whom I have, more lately, had the happiness of regarding

as a private friend.

   ' I think the composition of your Administration affords every
hope of realizing that which is the ideal of all good government --
the uniting of steady progress and a liberal policy with a firm and
jealous attachment to all the old institutions and the traditionary
principles of the English people.'

   The particular office chosen by Lord Aberdeen for

Imy acceptance was at first rather a surprise to me.

had been accustomed to consider it as an office usually
held by elderly men whose active life was nearly over,
or by men of great political influence, whose names
Iatlonheadwearbesaonlutaeplyprencoiaabdlemsintriestnrgatthiveto danuytieGs.oveIrtnmceonutl.d
afford, therefore,               haaddmingisretraattivteradietxiopnesri.enceI.t   On
the other hand,              no                              of                  had
                                                             in  tlheessC, abbuintest t--ill
                             it

obef egnreahte,lddibstyinCcthioanth. am,It  and by   others
                                            carried  a seat
that is to say, it carried a voice in all the deliberations
and decisions of the Government on whatever questions
came before it, whether legislative or executive. This

was enough for me. In such an office a man may be
idle if he is disposed to be so, but he may also be
intensely occupied. Lord Aberdeen's letter indicated
that he expected me to help him in debate, and to do
this with any usefulness or credit would demand close
attention to every subject on which we might be
Ia--ttLaocrkdedDberybyth. emost formidable           speaker in Parliament
                              saw that such          an office, among such
men, and at such a peculiar conjunction of public
Iaffairs,        afford me
               possessed.
faculties
     would                                  Itasmupitleed,  exercise  for such
      as                                                     too, my  taste for
miscellaneous work, whilst it left me the whole
                                                                 anpdursitusitsq.uietI
Parliamentary  recess for a                 country life,
opportunities  for scientific                and literary

had, therefore, every reason to be more than satisfied,
Isince at the comparatively early age of little more

than twenty-nine and a half years had attained an

1852] lord Aberdeen's difficulties 373

equal place with much older men in the Councils of the
State.
   On my  arrival  in London,  I found                 that   I  had                  con
ceived a very imperfect idea of the difficulties which

Lord Aberdeen had met and overcome. Whether it was
the sedative atmosphere of the quiet hills and waters

Iof the Clyde ; whether it was the twenty days had
spent there away from any private information of
what was going on ; or whether it was from my own
very strong opinion that a new combination was a
positive duty between two groups of men who had been
long united   on   thtreadoeneingrceoartnq--ueasntdionweoref  the time--the
defence of   free                                              not yet con
Isciously divided on any other, certain it is that was
under the impression that Lord Aberdeen had accom
plished the formation of his Cabinet with tolerable
eI asfeo.undButmyinseslfayeinngcosuonmteertehdingbyto   this effect to him,
                                                       an exclamation of
Iastonishment and protest. He did not explain, and

   did not ask for details. But by the kindness of my
Ifriend, now Lord Stanmore, then Arthur Gordon,
LporirvdateAbceordrreeesnp'osndyeonucneg,esatndsonI ,      have since seen the
                                                       quite agree with what
Gladstone said at the time, that probably no other
man could have led the negotiations to a successful
issue. Not only his own perfect candour towards all
the sections, but his power of recommending some
portion at least of that candour to others, the gentle
rebukes he gave to harsh and unjust judgments,
the way he frowned on excessive partisanship, his
imperturbable spirit  of equity                        haendinsmpoirdeedr--atiaolnl,
the perfect personal  confidence                                                        and
                                                                                      these
indicated a man who lived in an atmosphere above
them all. The great obstruction was undoubtedly
Lord John Russell. One day he was magnani
mous and helpful, the next day he was jealous and
jibbing badly. Instigated and influenced by a clique
of personal and domestic Whigs, he was sore and
sensitive to a degree about the proportion of offices

374       APPOINTED LOED PRIVY SEAL   [chap, xvii

assigned to his own old party, and was perpetually
changing his mind as to what he could and could not
honourably agree to, the result being that, almost up
to the last moment before a public announcement was

due in the House of Commons, it was uncertain whether
the whole arrangement would not have to be aban

Idoned.

   When found that the men of his own following whom
Lord Aberdeen was compelled to leave out      Io, f   his
Administration included Lord Canning, whilst         who

I Iwas a much more recent friend, had a high place

assigned to me, was so annoyed that at once wrote

Ito Lord Aberdeen to tell him that if he liked to give

my office to Canning should willingly replace it in
his hands. Lord Aberdeen replied at once, thanking
me for my offer, but saying that he could on no account
accept it, adding that the place to be assigned to me
had been settled from the first, and giving me to under
stand that this had been agreed to by both parties.
The Cabinet of Lord Aberdeen as finally settled con
sisted of thirteen members. Of these, six were Peelites,
and seven were Whigs or Radicals. As regards mere
numbers, this was not an unfair division; but as regards
the proportion borne to Parliamentary parties, there
was much to excuse the Whigs in the discontent they
felt and did not conceal. They pointed out that the
Whigs and Radicals represented 270 members of the
House of Commons, whilst the Peelite  party did not
number above 30 -- not more than the  Irish Brigade.
But this way of counting overlooked all those
peculiarities of the situation which made the Peelites
the most representative men of the most enlightened
school of Conservatism, and the only men of great
political experience in a new condition of political
affairs.
On the 29th December, 1852, Lord Aberdeen first
          together his  nIetwwacos llewaigthuesimmatenaseCapblienaesturdeinannedr
          own house.
Icalled

in his
curiosity that looked forward to this meeting. The

1852]          MY FIRST CABINET MEETING                          375

place, the occasion, and the men were all of the highest
interest to me. The place was the house which had
been the habitation of my family in London for
several generations. My uncle had sold it to Lord
Aberdeen early in the century, but Lord Aberdeen had
never  cthilalnhgiesddeitasth.namIet,   and it  was known   as Argyll
House                                           house from  which my
                                       was the

brave  and beautiful grandmother had defied                 the  Istavwagaes
mobs   whose cry was ' Wilkes and liberty
                                                            !'

the house from which my own father recollected
seeing the flare and hearing the shouts of Lord George
Gordon's riots, and the frightened cry of the servants,
' What shall we do with the child ?' This, indeed, was

an interest comparatively small and in a sense purely

personal, but it was a part, however slight, of a whole
set of circumstances which brought home to me the
striking continuities of our political history. The
identities of mere site and of continuing walls may
often be, and are sometimes, universally recognised
as being strong links with former generations. But
they can never be so strong as living men, whose years
date back to the time of famous contests and events

which, from the greatness of subsequent changes, had
always seemed to us to belong alone to history and to a
distant past.
The first meeting of the Cabinet of Lord Aberdeen
fulfilled all these conditions in an extraordinary
degree. The oldest member of it was Lord Lansdowne.
His own lifetime, begun in 1781, embraced the whole
of the memorable Ministries of Mr. Pitt, from 1783 to
his death in 1806. Lord Lansdowne' s father was that
Earl of Shelburne who was Prime Minister in 1782, who

had placed young William Pitt in high office as his
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and whose Ministry had
been brought to an end by the notorious and dis
creditable coalition of Fox and North in 1782. Lord
Lansdowne, then Lord Henry Petty, had at an early
age begun a political career which was so full of
promise that in 1806, in Lord Granville's Administra

376       APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL                     [chap, xvn

tion of ' All the Talents,' he was appointed Chancellor
                   In        tIhfathCaadbbineeetn

                Fox.
of the Exchequer.

J I IoI fwCahsardleesvouarminegs
                                                   he sat as a colleague
                                                   told when, as a boy,
                the speeches of Mr. Pitt that should
Isit in a Cabinet with a colleague of Mr. Fox, should
have been indeed astonished. Yet from this came

these hereditary claims on confidence which made
Lord Lansdowne one of the indispensable elements in
the union of parties in 1852. He represented the
purest traditions of the Whig party, and though not
now strong in health,              still  spoke well and earnestly
when he spoke at all.        heIt   was   the natural consequence
of a long life, spent under such conditions of great
change, that he was as temperate and philosophical in
his opinions as he                  weighty and grave   in  the
expression of them.          was   was a curious thing  to
                                                            see
                              It
that fine old man, who had begun his official life in one
coalition Government, now ending it in another, after
the long interval of fifty-six years.
Lord Aberdeen himself was hardly less a striking
symbol of times long gone by. His lifetime, too, had
embraced   the  --wwhoitlhe  Ministries of Mr. Pitt, having
begun in                     this additional circumstance of
          1784
great interest, that Mr. Pitt had been his guardian,
and had so treated him as a son that he had been for
years a regular member of Mr. Pitt's private household.
Within seven years of Pitt's death he had been sent
by Lord Castlereagh to the headquarters of the allied
armies, as the confidential agent of the British Govern
ment, to encourage that active co-operation among the
other Powers of Europe against the French usurper
which it had been the life-struggle of the great Minister
to Iptrowmaosten.o new thing with Lord Aberdeen to deal
with coalitions. On a wider field, and with vaster
interests at stake than any which depended on the
strange guests he assembled round his table in 1852,
he had, no less than forty-nine years before, been the
heart and soul of that coalition among the Great Powers

1852] lord Aberdeen's colleagues 377

of Europe upon which the fate of Europe hung. He
had found infirmity of purpose, jealousies between
Governments, and antagonisms between Ministers.
More than any other single man, except the Duke of
Wellington, he had prevailed against them by the
sheer force of his character and the wisdom of his
counsels. He had become the intimate and trusted
friend of the Emperor Francis of Austria, and was
hardly less considered by the Emperor Alexander of
Russia and by the King of Prussia. He had accom
panied the united armies in the advance. He had
seen the carnage of Leipsic, and was with the allies
at the occupation of Paris. He had been one of the
Plenipotentiaries who drew up the treaties of 1814.

In later years he had held the Foreign Office under
Wellington in 1828-29. He had held it again under

Peel in 1841-1846. It was impossible that the life
of any other man could take us back more con
tinuously to a past so completely different from the
present in all the conditions of political affairs, whether
at home or abroad.
Then, if there was a gap in this continuity as re
garded the years                              to the termination of
the Revolutionary   sWubasre--quwehnetn       the nation had ceased

at last to be   engrossed              in  nefeodreeidgnrefaofrfamirss,atahnodmeha--d
begun to think  seriously             of
this gap was entirely filled up by another of the guests
at Lord Aberdeen's dinner. This was Lord John
Russell. He was eleven years younger than Lord
Lansdowne, and eight years younger than Lord
Aberdeen. He brought one into no living touch with

Pitt and Fox. He was only a little more than of age
at the Peace of 1815. On the other hand, he was
identified with all the domestic changes and reforms
awnhdichthehapdeoapltleer--edwitthhe   whole  condition  of Parliament
                                      Roman    Catholic  Emancipation,
with the Abolition of the Sacramental Test in municipal
and other offices, with a full and adequate represen
tative system in the House of Commons. To me it

378                   APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL  [chap, xvn

was a curious thing to think that, when my new col
league began life, not only had cities like Manchester
and Birmingham no representatives in Parliament,
but men otherwise able and sagacious were strongly
opposed to the bestowal on them even of seats gained
by the disfranchisement of boroughs convicted of
corruption. The world in which we were to meet at
Lord Aberdeen's table was a changed world indeed.
  I IBesides Lord Lansdowne, Lord Aberdeen, and Lord

John Russell, knew was to meet a fourth new col
league, who was as old as Lord Aberdeen, but who

in recent years had become, if not more famous, at
l'etaitstfomr otraet  notorious.    This   was Palmerston, whose
                                  Russell  ' had brought about the
                      with John
Ipolitical crisis which had ended in our new attempt
at a fusion and reconstruction.            was curious to see
him in those new relations to his old friends and
adversaries, in which he consented to forego his almost
prescriptive claim to the Foreign Office, and to con
descend to home affairs instead. His relations with
the far past were less distinguished than those of his
colleagues, although he was of the same age as Lord
I IAberdeen, and had been in official life at an earlier
date.  thought then, and think now, that the man
who made the largest sacrifice of personal feeling to
public duty in joining us in 1852 was Lord Palmerston.
He had been almost continually in high office since

1809, under every variety of leadership, and it is a
curious fact that he had been actually offered the
Chancellorship of the Exchequer in 1807, in succession
to Lord Lansdowne, by Mr. Perceval. He had been
GSeocvreertnamryenfotr--Wtahratduisrintgo  the whole of Lord Liverpool's

                                           say, for seventeen years. It
was no small distinction in the life of any man to have
had a leading office in the administration of the
British Army during those glorious years following
1809, when Arthur Wellesley in the Peninsula was
teaching Europe that Napoleon's Generals were not
invincible, and when he was carrying our arms in

1852]                    SIR JAMES GRAHAM           379

triumphant and immortal campaigns from the Tagus
to Toulouse. Palmerston had been Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs under  LoItrdmGursety,hLaovred  Melbourne,
and Lord John Russell.                              cost him a
good deal to see that great office deliberately with
held from him, and given, at least for a time, to the
MI iwnaisstecrurwiohuos  had summarily dismissed him from it.
                         to see his bearing under circumstances
of union, and under the leadership of a statesman
whose arguments against his own policy he had de
scribed in the House of Commons as ' antiquated
imbecility.'
meTnh--e LpoerdrsonAablerhdiesetonr,iesLorodf
                                               those four distinguished

                                               Lansdowne, Lord John
IRussell, and Lord Palmerston --did not exhaust the

sources of interest with which looked forward to our
first collective meeting. There was another member

Iof the new Cabinet in whom felt considerable curiosity.
IHe stood nearer to my own time, and had myself
seen him and heard him in a very different position.
This was Sir James Graham, a large landed proprietor
on the borders, a tall, handsome man, a little bald,
but looking otherwise hardly past the prime of life.
He was a coalition in himself. He had been a keen
Whig and a prominent member of Earl Grey's Reform
Cabinet. But he had seceded with Lord Stanley on
the question of appropriating part of the revenues of
suppressed Irish bishoprics to secular purposes. He
Ihad then, also with Lord Stanley, joined the Opposi

tion, led by Sir Robert Peel, and had seen him speak
ing in the House of Commons as Home Secretary in
the Peel Cabinet of 1841. He was, indeed, one of the
pillars of that Government. Although a man of large
and powerful frame, he had rather a weak voice.
He had no animation in his delivery, no action with his
arms. He stood like a column, generally resting his
weight on one leg, with the other foot against the table.
IBut he spoke with a weight and gravity which made
his speaking highly effective.                 have heard Lord

380  APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL  [chap, xvn

Aberdeen refer to it as ' Graham's sledge-hammer.'
Since the fall of Peel's Government, he had belonged
to that wing of the Peelite party which looked rather
towards a reunion with his old friends the Whigs than
to any other basis of reconstruction. But he had
absolute personal confidence in Lord Aberdeen, and
had agreed to take the Admiralty in our new alliance.
None of the other members of the Cabinet, although
all of them men of ability, and some on the way to
greater eminence, rose above the second rank in
political importance, as matters then stood. Our
Lord Chancellor was Lord Cranworth, a most amiable
man, well known as Baron Rolfe, and more fitted to
Ishine on the Bench than in the Council-chamber.

Lord Granville, of whom have already spoken, was
President of the Council. Both of these men, from
temperament and intellectual character, were quite
sure to be conciliatory elements in our combination.
The Duke of Newcastle was a strong Peelite, and dis
liked the Whigs, but he was prudent and very reserved.
He took the Colonial  MOifnfiicset,rywhoicfh,Wuanrf--orttouonatmeluyc,h  was
combined with the                                                         for
anyone to manage if a great war should arise. New
castle was an industrious and conscientious worker,
but he had no brilliancy and little initiative. The
Secretaryship of War, a completely separate office,
long held by Lord Palmerston, was given to Sidney
IHerbert, another distinguished member of the Peelite

group, of whom must say a few words, chiefly because
of the great expectations which were cherished by
some as to the future that might probably await
him. He was handsome, refined, and graceful, all
in a high degree ; he had a winning smile, a most
courteous manner, and great quickness of intellect and
perception. He was a good speaker, and possibly his
early death may have cut off from play much higher
qualities ; but my own conviction is that he never
would have been a leader of men. The attitude of
the statue in which he is commemorated at the front

1852]   SIR C. WOOD AND SIR W. MOLES WORTH                   381

Iof the War Office in Pall Mall expresses all mean.
It is an attitude that wants power and strength. But
he, too, was sure to be a conciliatory element.
   Sir Charles Wood had the Board of Control, a post
for which he was admirably fitted, as he was a man of
much quickness and ability, although as Chancellor
of the Exchequer his finance had been one of the very
weakest elements in the declining reputation of the

Whigs.                   office --Sir William
    A man wholly new to   of Works, with a     Molesworth
--                                             seat in the
    got the appointment
ICabinet. This appointment was a sop to the Radicals.

   am not sure, however, that it had much effect in
this direction. Molesworth was a large landed pro
prietor, with a fine place in Cornwall. He was in
favour of the ballot. But he belonged to the school of
Philosophical or Benthamite Radicals. His chief dis
tinction in Parliament was his advocacy of colonial
self-government. He had  odnelitvheisredsuebljaebcto.rateIt
in the House of Commons                                      speeches
                                                             was not
one, however, with which the Radical party took any
Igreat concern, and Molesworth was rather an individual
than a typical politician of any kind.  must confess
that he was the only ingredient in the new
which was in anticipation disagreeable to me.                Cabinet

                                                              It was
Inot his colonial policy that cared about, nor even
Ihis advocacy of the ballot. But               disliked the

Benthamite school altogether, and Molesworth was
understood to be without any religious belief what

Iever. ought to add that, on personal acquaintance,
I Iwas more reconciled than had at all expected to
Ibe. Molesworth found to be socially a rather dull,
abgugtreasnsivheonoerstofafenndsivsetraiinghhtfiosrwexaprrdessmedano, pwinitiohnsn--othvienrgy
much of what is called a good fellow in his way.
   Last but not least in this enumeration of the sources
of interest which made me look forward so much to
Ithe first meeting of the Aberdeen Cabinet came Glad

stone, of whom in the future shall have so much to

382          APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL           [chap, xvn

say that it is needless to say more here than that, as
to him, the confident expectations of a distinguished
future were well-nigh universal.
    Gladstone's leanings during the Derby Ministry were
just opposite to those of Graham. He looked rather
to a reorganization of the Conservatives under Derby
than to any union with the Whigs, and in his speech
on Disraeli's Budget there was a passage towards the
close which expressed this lingering hope so clearly

that it gave considerable offence to the Whigs. But
he could not refuse to join the combination formed
under his old friend and chief, Lord Aberdeen, and we
certainly could not well have got on without him. The
historic past was well represented in the Cabinet. The
present and the future would have been wanting
without Gladstone.

   Such being the personal composition of the new

Cabinet, it remains to say a few words on the dis
posal of its greater offices among the formerly opposing
parties. As a necessity arising out of the curious
situation which had arisen, the Prime Minister was a
Peelite ; so was the Colonial Minister and the Secretary
for   War ; so was   the    Chancellor of the
so   was the First  Lord     of the Admiralty    --Exficvheeqouffeicres;
of the first rank in every Government. On the other
hand, the Foreign Office went to the Whigs ; so did
the Woolsack ; so did the Home Office ; so did the
B--ofaivred  of Control ; so did the Presidency
             other offices of high rank and      oimf tphoertCanocuenc--il
whilst Lord Lansdowne, another typical Whig, was
in   the Cabinet  without   aaffnilyiatoeffdicetoattheallW. hiMgso,lewswhoilrstth,I
of   course, was  at least

was similarly related to the Peelites. Taken together,

it was a body of men who, in personal experience,
spanned the whole political history of the country,
from the days of Pitt and Fox up to that date.
Within the limits of our own constitutional contests,
it embraced every school of politics which had been
of any distinction for more than half a century. Yet

1852]         THE COMRADESHIP OF CABINETS         383

the most curious thing was that, apart from indefinite
tendencies of thought and feeling, there remained abso
lutely nothing to divide these men, so far as any living
political questions were concerned.               The battle for a
more adequate representation of the                people -- resisted
for    fifty  years by the House of   C--ohmamd obnese,nanfodugohntlyafnodr
       year    by the House of Lords
one
won. So had the battle for religious liberty as it affected
Dissenters and Roman Catholics ; so had the battle
for free trade in corn. On this, the last and latest
subject of contention, we were all agreed. No fresh
one had as yet arisen, and we found ourselves together,
not so much as the result of any deliberate policy, as
                                   any justification for our
because there was no  Ilotngwears    like the sudden bend
remaining separate.
taken by a great river at some point where many
affluents have met, and where the waters gather and
rest awhile before they take a new direction and run
through a new country.
The interest of our meeting at Lord Aberdeen's
house was equal to my expectation. All of us had
been at least personally acquainted with each other,
and many of us were friends of long standing. Any
exhibition of old jealousies or antagonisms was out of
the question, whilst the resources out of which good
conversation comes were present in abundance.
We had a most lively and agreeable party. But
what interested me most was to observe and feel the
sense of comradeship which was manifestly present

in at least its incipient stage. In every Cabinet the

leading spirits do a good deal by private and personal
understandings, and in the present case these were
numerous and important. One of these, absolutely

necessary at the time, was that Lord John Russell
was not to embarrass us in our first session by starting
the question of further changes in the constitution of
       House of                        There was  no call for it in
the    country.  CIotmmwaosn.s,.  looked upon     with dislike by
the
almost all of us, as a personal measure of Lord John,

384             APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL  [chap, xvn

and none of us -- not even Lord John himself --had
any definite plan upon the subject. Besides which,
fiscal and financial reforms stood before it, and some
of them were critical and difficult, requiring imme
diate attention. One of these, on which many others
depended, was the condition of the income-tax, which
Sir Robert Peel had revived as a great instrument
of finance in reforming the tariff, but which, unless
renewed, was to expire at the end of the next financial

year.

  In every Government resting on a popular basis,
new questions are liable to arise suddenly, and to be

fanned into a flame if they are taken up by the press.

An agitation had been rising for some time in favour
of what was called at the time a ' differentiation of
the income-tax,' which meant that a lower rate of
tax should be levied on all incomes which were called
' precarious,'                 rate  on all incomes which
were called     and a higher         professional and all
                ' permanent.'   All
commercial incomes were to be favoured. All in
comes from funded or landed property were to pay
the highest rate. No notice was taken of amount.
The hinge turned entirely on source. Thus widows
and orphans and small annuitants of all kinds, whose
incomes came from the public funds or from mort
gages, were to pay the high rate of tax, while millionaire
brewers, manufacturers, and merchants were to be
favoured at their expense. The inequalities and in
justices this system would inflict seemed to many far
greater than any that could be charged against the equal
rIattehaodn  all incomes. But  the agitation had been  active.
                               the patronage of the    Times,
             been inflamed by
and whilst its plausibility at first sight was apparent,
the objections could only be appreciated by those who
paid close attention to the facts, and could reason on
the principles involved. Disraeli was in the position
of a man who had to cover his retreat from all his
Protectionist doctrines by appealing to every cry
that could possibly be popular. He had, therefore,

1852] INCOME-TAX DIFFICULTIES 385

announced in his Budget his adhesion to the principle
of differentiating incomes according to their source.
But Gladstone had pounced upon the fact that Dis
raeli, in his speech, had shown that he had not even
seen the gross anomalies and injustices which must
be involved unless they could be overcome, and that
he had no conception of any plan for the accomplish
ment of this result. Nevertheless, Disraeli's un

principled conduct on this subject obviously increased
immensely the difficulties of his successor.
Before our dinner came to an end, therefore, Glad
stone called the attention of his new colleagues to the
great importance and the great difficulty of the
problem to be solved, and expressed his wish that he
might secure the help of a committee of the Cabinet,

as it was one so bristling with details that the Cabinet
as a whole would find it difficult to deal with unless
well thrashed out beforehand. Of course, his desire

Iwas at once assented to.

  It so happened that had attended to this question
a good deal, and had come to a very adverse con

Iclusion against the agitation. Sitting, as did at
Ithe dinner, between Lord Aberdeen and Gladstone,
Ihad expressed my opinion to them. Gladstone was

somewhat surprised that had considered it at all.
Lord Aberdeen did not profess to have gone into it
carefully, but he told me his general impression that,
unless we could make some concession on this subject,
' we might as well pack up our portmanteaux at
once.' Such was his opinion of the hold which
the idea had obtained over the public mind. Glad
stone was left to suggest his own Committee, and
Ihe named Graham, Wood, Lansdowne, and myself.
   was thus unexpectedly set to one of the most im
portant bits of work which had to be done at the very
Ioutset of our course.

      do not remember that the Committee ever met
collectively, but each of us was to give in to Gladstone
some minute on paper, stating our conclusions and
vol. i.
                                              25

386           APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL           [chap, xvii

I Ithe reasons for them. I set to work at once, that

very evening beginning my paper, when returned to

Stafford House; and it was now that first felt in all
its fulness the immense advantage of early habits of
composition, and of marshalling the facts and argu
ments   applicable to a   focoumr pdlaicyasteIdhaadndsendtififnicutolt
Within   about three or                                                  case.

stone my paper, stating strongly the objections                         GI lafedlt
to the proposal of charging different rates of tax on
incomes differing only in what was called the source.
Gladstone sent me a pleasant acknowledgment of the
value of my               and of  surprise at my
in preparing   ipt.apeIr  am not  vain enough to  promptitude
                                                  suppose that
my paper had any effect on Gladstone's decision. It
would have been difficult indeed to add even one grain
to the mountain of objections which that acute and
eager mind could always conjure up against a course

which it strongly disliked and disapproved. But it may
have helped to strengthen his resolve to take some
course by which to avoid and evade the difficulty, for
it is a signal illustration of the reserve and skill of his
political tactics that, in his great speech on Disraeli's
Budget, he had carefully guarded against any declara
tion on the abstract principle of differentiation, and
had limited himself to indicating the new and unjust
anomalies which Disraeli had not even attempted to
               was the opinion of my colleagues
               don't think ever heard, but none
IpthreevCeonmt. miWtteheatI                                             on
                                                                         of
them were men who were likely to meet with a stiff

back any very strong popular delusion which it had
become dangerous to defy.
The curious Cabinet which Lord Aberdeen had suc
ceeded in getting round him was not yet complete.
The Foreign Office had been accepted by Lord John
Russell only on the condition that he should be allowed
to resign it at or before the meeting of Parliament,
as he could    not endure         its   labour along with                the
leadership of  the House.              was agreed, further,             that
                                  It
Lord Clarendon was to be his successor. This arrange

1852] lord Aberdeen's cabinet 387

ment was accordingly carried into effect. A new
ingredient was thus imported into our wonderful
amalgam, not, however, incongruous with any other.
Clarendon was an immense accession to the Cabinet.
He was a man of great ability, of long experience in
diplomacy, and, above all, of entire freedom from any
party jealousies. He had conducted the government
of Ireland in a difficult time with distinguished success.
As Foreign Minister, he was a far safer man than the
one he succeeded. Lord John Russell's impulsive
temperament was apt to find vent in an impulsive
pseenn.tencHese--weaxscelfleonntd   of sharp sayings and         incisive
                                   things in debate, but not     without
danger in dealing with haughty and powerful
Sovereigns, or with peoples sensitive and excited.
Clarendon's manners were as genial and tactful to his
colleagues as his despatches were admirably expressed
to convey the matured opinions and inclinations of
the Cabinet as a whole. With great charm of manner
he had also great penetration in understanding the
feelings of other men, whilst his unfailing liveliness and
humour made even                   the most     teI dnioeuves r  business com
paratively pleasant.               Personally,                   became nearly
Iso intimate with him as with Lord John Russell, but
Ihad a great regard for him. We corresponded occasion

ally, and think we were always well agreed.
With this excellent addition, the Cabinet of Lord
IIAberdeen was finally completed.

now, in 1898, when am the sole
                                                Writing, as              do
                                                survivor of all         my
Icolleagues of forty-six years ago, have a real pleasure
in recording as a fact that the great effort Lord
Aberdeen made, and which no other man could have
attempted, to reconcile Whig and Conservative in the
Administration was a complete and absolute success.
                                         in perfect harmony, and, so far
ITasheIyknwoowrk, ewditthogpeetrhfeecrt   loyalty, with the one exception
to which shall in its proper place refer. There were
occasionally differences of opinion on matters of detail.
There were absolutely none on matters of general

                                                                 25--2

38S            APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL                      [chap, xvn

principle or of Imperial policy. Above all, it was to be
noted, as the final test of a genuine amalgamation, that,
when differences of opinion or even of inclination did
arise, they never showed the smallest tendency to run
along the old lines of party division : they always
Icut across these lines at all angles with complete
indifference.  have been a member of every Liberal
ICabinet that succeeded it for twenty-nine years, and

  never saw any of them which worked more smoothly
or with less individual friction. This, moreover, is to
be said, which is strangely forgotten : that the amalga
mation was permanent and has been lasting. The
Whig party was permanently leavened, renewed, and

strengthened by the Liberal Conservatives. All the
Cabinets which have succeeded have been built on the
foundations laid by the tact, truthfulness, and dignity
of Lord Aberdeen in December, 1852.
There are some events in politics, as there are
occasionally in private life, which are so big in them
selves and in their consequences that, in the rolls of
memory, they seem to obliterate what went before, and
to distort what followed after. The Aberdeen Cabinet
              associated with the  Igtreisatfowragrotwteitnh
is popularly  with nothing else.                              Russia,
and almost                                                    that we
were a year in office before that storm burst upon us,
and that we started with brilliant success upon a
programme of purely domestic policy. The coming
termination of the income-tax necessitated a syste
matic review of our financial and fiscal system, and it
was one declared object of the Government to con
solidate and extend the principles of those reforms
in that system which had been established by Sir
Robert Peel. There was law reform which claimed
attention ; there was the difficult subject of national
education ; whilst the approaching termination of what
was called the Charter of the East India Company,
which had been periodically renewed only from time
to time, was another subject which, though not much
talked of, was nevertheless one of grave importance.

                 OPENING OF PARLIAMENT                            389

Asensdsionno--t   only   was this   --proongeramesmseentifaolrly  our present
                 hardly   optional                                  which as
sumed conditions of internal peace, but for the next
lsieasmsioenn,tartoyor,efwoermc--onotneempwlhaitcehd,  some measure of Par
                                                       more perhaps than any
other, was conditional on the vessel of the State not

encountering the storms of war. The only member
of the Government who was considered a dangerous
man, and who in very recent years had gone near to
embroiling us with France, was safely tethered within
theItpienatecerefusltspamsetunreoswotfothreemHeommbeerOhffoicwe. implicitly we,
who were soon to engage in one of the most serious
wars of the century, all then believed that ours was
to be a Ministry of peace. British Governments never
do entertain projects involving war.
  At the opening of our first session there was no
Queen's Speech, because Parliament had not been
prorogued, but only adjourned, but Lord Aberdeen
made a short and manly speech in explanation of the
policy of his administration. As to foreign affairs, he

said that, if we were called upon in any way to inter
fere in the affairs of other nations, he trusted it would
only be in the blessed part of peacemakers-- endeavour
ing to prevent wars, and not to cause them. As to
domestic affairs, he declared the special aim of his
Government to be ' the maintenance and the prudent
extension of Free Trade, and of the commercial and
financial system established by the late Sir Robert

Peel.' In this speech, too, he placed the defence of
the composition of his Cabinet on the true grounds.
Lord Derby's sharp and not very scrupulous tongue
had implied a charge of conspiracy against the com
bination which had overthrown his own party. Tired
of, and probably somewhat disgusted with, the personal
and party feelings which with so much difficulty he
had just succeeded in overcoming, Lord Aberdeen had
no patience with such accusations from the late
Protectionist leader. He told Lord Derby that the

390    APPOINTED LORD PRIVY SEAL                            [chap, xvii

old names of Liberal and Conservative had ceased to
have any definite meaning, and could no longer be
allowed to impede the union of men between whom
there were no substantial differences, and who could,

when united, render important public services.

  IWhen look back to the memory of that time, and
Iwhen read again contemporary documents, it seems
as if there had been     visible  Ethuernopeon--lyotohneer   cause of
                        peace of                            than that
possible danger to the
rottenness of the Turkish Empire in Europe which had
       fwamithiliadrantgoermouasnycognetinnegreanticoienss,--aasndchtahragtedwaast   all
been                                                                                the
times
natural and inevitable mistrust and suspicion with
which every Cabinet regarded the second empire just
established in France. No human being could feel in
Louis Napoleon any personal confidence, nor could any
one have reliance on his freedom from old Napoleonic
aspirations, or from the lawless habits of regarding
foreign relations which had revolutionized the world.
Palmerston felt this distrust as strongly as any of us,
and he immediately began at the Home Office to set
on foot measures for national defence. Thus began
that continuous movement, which has since assumed

such large proportions, for more adequate defensive
armaments. Men began to talk about the possibility
of invasion, and to conjure up visions of the time when
the great Napoleon was in his camp at Boulogne, and
was raging against Villeneuve for not bringing up his
fleet to embark his armament. Meantime there was
nothing to be done but to keep a good look-out and to
think of precautions.

     CHAPTER XVIII

     1844-52

     ARGYLL LODGE --LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS

Before I proceed, however, to give an account of the
Imemorable political events which followed, must
retrace my steps for a little to recall some of those
aspects and incidents of private and social life on which,
after all, the interest of an autobiography must largely

depend.

   My first entrance on official life involved a very
considerable modification of my previous habits.
Ever since my marriage, from 1844 to 1852, we had
never stayed long enough in London to make it worth
our while to take a house. The Sutherlands had a
very large one, always half empty, and they were
delighted to have us as long as we cared to stay.

IWhen, however, took an office of high rank in the
IGovernment, was obliged to live in London during
the whole session, and in order to exercise some hospi
tality, it became necessary to have a house of our own.
This we provided for, during a few years, by taking a
house for the season only. The inconveniences, how
ever, of these constant changes of abode, and the
increasing number of our family, determined us to
look out for a permanent residence.
Just at that time we heard that a villa at Campden
Hill, which had long been well known in London as
the  sraelsei.denIcte hoafdthfeouDroawcaregser-oDfulcahnedssaboofuBt eidt.fordIt,  was
for                                                                                was

beautifully planted, and had two very old oaks in the
grounds which would have done no discredit to any

     391

392       ARGYLL LODGE                                                    [chap, xviu

ancient chase in England. It was next to Holland
PWaerkw, eanntdtoabsseoeluitte, lyandremthoevefidrstfrtohmingallI          of  traffic.
                                                                   noise  out  of the
                                                                   saw
late Duke of Bedford's room was a fine lawn covered
with starlings, hunting for grubs and insects in their very
Ipeculiar fashion; moreover, there were other birds in

abundance. To my amazement, saw nut-hatches
moving over the trees as if they were in some deep
English woodland. Fly-catchers and warblers were also
visible to my accustomed eye. There were objections :
distance was to be considered. But the birds settled

everything. All doubts and difficulties vanished before
the rummaging of the starlings, the darting of the fly
catchers, and the agile climbing of the nut-hatches.
Under such stimulus from birds it seemed quite a
subordinate consideration that the lawn would be

Iperfect for the children, and perfect, too, for breakfast-

parties, as in the Duchess of Bedford's time. returned
to town,  Laonddgein. strIutctheads  my agent  at once             to purchase
Bedford                              been my   London              House ever

since, up to the present day. Some birds, alas ! have
ceased to tolerate our somewhat more smoky atmo
sphere. The reed-wren no longer hangs its beautiful
pensile nest amongst our lilac-bushes. The black-cap
and the willow-wren and the nut-hatches have all
deserted us. But the starlings are as lively and busy
as ever, and the cushat has become so tame and so
familiar that its delicious voice is soothing at almost
all hours to those who wish to escape from the ' fumum

strepitumque Romae.'
   Casting the eyes of memory back to some of the
recollections of my earlier years in London, before this
quiet home had been acquired, and a somewhat new
Icourse of life had been begun, there are some persons

and some incidents which cannot omit to recall in
this narrative with something of the vividness which
Ibelongs to them in my impressions of the past.

     have spoken of some of my new political colleagues
in 1851 as links of great interest with statesmen long

1844-52]  SAMUEL ROGERS                   393

passed away. There were at least two more such links
with vanished generations which had no concern with
I Ipolitics. One of these was the poet Samuel Rogers.
  do not recollect when or where first made acquaint
ance with him, but this is not surprising. He had
been a man of society in London for more than half a
century. He went to every conceivable party, besides
giving agreeable dinners and breakfasts at his own
house. He was a lion wherever he went. His poems
had at one time a great reputation. He had preceded
Wordsworth, and had long preceded Byron, but that
savage critic had belauded him when he was abusing
others. His first poem had been published in 1786,
and his latest in 1834. One edition of his collected

I Iworks had been splendidly illustrated by the incom
parable pencil of Turner.  confess never cared for

the poetry of Rogers, though seeing and feeling its
Iimmense polish and refinement. A single solitary line

of all had read, and this alone, ever remained in my
memory, because of its graphic touch on one of the
wonders of Nature, the economy of ants :

                ' And watched the emmet to her grainy nest.1

I IBut was always interested in meeting him. cannot
I Isay liked him, even as much as could like his
Ismooth and mellifluous lines. He was hideous to

behold. When first knew him in 1841 he was seventy-
eight years of age, and he continued leading the same
ubiquitous social life for ten years longer, till he was
in his eighty-eighth year, but he had none of the
venerable aspect of age in his appearance. He was a
small man with a bald head, a very flat face, and a
complexion perfectly cadaverous. His eyes were sharp
and observant, but amiability was not conspicuous in
the expression. His speech was slow, and always
apparently premeditated. He was famous for his
sharp sayings, not infrequently bitter. His temper
was jealous and irritable. Yet with all this he was
liked by those who knew him well, and he was said to

394        LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                           [chap, xvui

be generous to his poorer brethren of the pen. He
had a charming house, looking on the Green Park,
ISt. James's, where had the honour of being a guest
Iat one of his famous breakfasts.                    remember nothing
except the fine pictures, marbles, and furniture of the
room, all showing very clearly the classic taste of the
old poet.
   There was  thainsotpheerriohdu--maannotlhinekr    with the past  con
nected with                                          very old man,  who

was older than Rogers, and conspicuous for all the

charms of age which were deficient in the poet. This
was the Right Honourable Thomas Grenville. He was
the second son of that George Grenville who was
PatrtiamceheMs inoifsthearviinng17p3a5,sseadnd   to  whom the   evil memory
                                                the   American   Stamp Act,
and of having so been the first cause of the loss of our
American colonies. And yet there was in my mind no
breath of disparagement attaching to the inheritance

of this paternal name. In my early political education
there was nothing that surprised me more than the
discovery, in reading the debates and writings of the
time, that the denial of any right in the Imperial
Parliament to tax the colonies was founded on no

law and on no authority previously acknowledged.
That right had been long assumed and practised in a
variety of forms. George Grenville acted on an

impression of right so universal in his day that his Bill
for raising a revenue on stamps to be expended on

colonial defence passed through both Houses of
Parliament with hardly any opposition. The claim,
which to us now seems so monstrous, is a right, like
many others, which was first created and established
by successful fighting. George Grenville was person
ally one of the best men among his contemporaries.
He had been intimately acquainted with, and a col
league of, Chatham, and to the last he was a friend of
Burke. When he died this great man pronounced on
him in the House of Commons one of those splendid
eulogiums which we read and read again because of the

1844-52]    THOMAS GRENVILLE                           395

beauty of the diction, and because of that glow of
tender and appreciative feeling which suffuses all his
records of the illustrious dead.

  IGeorge Grenville's second son, Thomas, of whom
Ihave now to speak, was born in 1756, and when first
knew him had attained the great age of eighty-eight.

This was in 1844. He had been at one time high in
political office, having been First Lord of the Admiralty
in the Administration of 1807. The Duke of Welling
ton told Lord Ellesmere he had never heard a clearer
speaker. But his soul was in literature, and, retiring
from public life, he had collected one of the finest
libraries ever formed by a private person. Physically,
he was a splendid old man, with a countenance of
Iextraordinary dignity,  Ibenignity, and
                                          repose. On   one
occasion dined at his    house, where      met Rogers  the
poet ; Sydney Smith the celebrated wit, Canon of
St. Paul's ; and Sir David Dundas, a Scottish lawyer,
a good conversationalist, and, like Mr. Grenville, a

Igreat lover of books. This was the only time ever
met or even saw Sydney Smith. He was a bulky man
with a large and powerful head, a curved nose, and a
tremendous chin. He was evidently unwell, and as
regards any expected contribution to the conversation
from him, the dinner was a complete failure. He
hardly spoke, and seemed dull and oppressed. Other
wise our party was agreeable enough, and would have
bcvheeaerrynacwmteeurllics--hticams ohtreeemapslewora. ybsutDduifdno.dr aasBnutotoludRtobguresearsksonmoeefveRsrtoocgroeyur--sld'
bear to see those around him listening to anyone but
himself.    Hweiththaemreofostrevicsiloouwslyexplirfteesdsionh,issaicdad: a' vIehraovues
face, and,
Ibeen waiting a long time till Dundas had ended. May
  be allowed now to get in one word edgeways ?' Dundas
could not reply, of course, to such an antiquity as
IRogers, and could only look, as he did, very much
annoyed.    am not sure that Mr. Grenville heard
what Rogers said. Whether he did or not, he took not

396      LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                  [chap, xvm

the slightest notice of it, and his cheery and genial
manner to all his guests soon restored our disturbed
conversation to its former flow. Mr. Grenville lived
about two years longer, dying in the end of 1846 at the
age of ninety-one. He left to the nation his splendid
collection of books, and at the British Museum his name
is unmatched as the donor of ' the Grenville Library.'
   Turning the eyes of memory to remarkable men of a

Imuch later generation with whom made a friendship
Iin those years, find them first arrested by the great
name of Wilberforce, son of that illustrious father who
was one of the most intimate friends of Mr. Pitt, and
the earliest champion in Parliament of negro emanci
pation. Samuel Wilberforce was appointed to the

Ideanery of Westminster in 1845, and my wife and

then made a friendship with him which lasted till his
death.   We used to       almost every                afternoon
to hear  his sermons  go  the Abbey.    SItunwdaasy  impossible

                      in
at that time not to be struck with the great charm of
his countenance, the earnestness of his eloquence, and
the singular beauty of his voice. These were much
Imore remarkable then than at later     periods of his
                                        that, great as
life, so much so that often thought
the attractions of his conversation always continued
to be, those who saw him only in his later years could
hardly understand the fascination he exerted over
others at that earlier time. He looked younger than
he really was. He was then forty years of age, and
had been for some years Archdeacon of Surrey, and
Vicar of one of the most populous parishes in Sussex.
He was already a widower, and the marks of sorrow
were conspicuous among the multitudinous expressions
of his face. He was one of the Queen's chaplains,
eamxnacdneype-tnsinjiodgyeedtdhecghrcaehraaatcratfeacrvteoruI r ohafatvGeClaodeusvrtteo.rnek.HneowIwnab, selnitehovete  most
                                                                                                                        even
                                                                                                                         him
to have been from first to last a thoroughly good man,
anxious to use his great gifts for the best in his Master's
service. But his love of approbation and of admira

1844-52]                   WILLIAM WILBERFORCE                         397

tion was intense, and so also was his ambition. Too
literally and too much he was ' all things to all men,'
and the life in London did not improve him, or, at
least, did not exhibit him at his best. He seemed to
like shining in society as a man of the world, almost
as much as he liked shining in the pulpit as a great
preacher, or in the House of Lords as a great orator
and debater.
Wilberforce became very soon a power in the Church,
and imparted quite a new tone to the ecclesiastical
and social work of the Bishops in their dioceses.
He was the leader in the movement which ended in
the revival of Convocation. His exact attitude to the

great religious movement of his day at Oxford was
never very clearly denned, nor, perhaps, quite con
sistently maintained. Before his elevation to the See
of Oxford in 1855 he was believed to be strongly
opposed to the Tractarian party, and this belief seems
I Ijustified now when we read in his Life such passages

as this : ' confess feel furious at the craving of men
for union with idolatrous, material, sensual, domineer
ing Rome, and their squeamish anathematizing hatred
owbfealsiPervoaetlel isntvaenaryt grrweeaeftollr.PmreeIld,atemfo--ernf.oo' nre,tThhinsisevheseor rwtcaoosuflbdleafnowgruehaogallelyl

other things -- feeling otherwise than greatly attracted
by doctrines which made almost the whole system
of Christianity depend on their own particular order
in the ministry of the Church. Such a magnifi
cation of the office is well-nigh irresistible to an

Iextremely ambitious priest, but he and never got
upon the subject in private life. Once we came into
I Icollision in the House of Lords on some question

which now forget, and was immensely amused by
my friend Bishop Samuel turning upon me rather
"saPvraegseblyyt,erainadn  s"aywinrgitt:en'  The   noble Duke          the word
                                               in  large letters  has  down his
                                                                  all
back.' But we were the best of friends always. He
stayed with us several times at Inveraray, and he

.398       LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                          [chap, xvui

was coming again to visit us in a few weeks when we
heard of the deplorable riding accident which, in 1873,
deprived the Church of England of one of the ablest
and most distinguished of her             His                  love of
natural history was a great bond  sons.
                                         me.                   It made
                                  with
him a charming companion out of doors. When he
was with us it was delightful to see the quickness and
eagerness of eye with which he pounced on every rare
fern or moss in the luxuriant greenery of our woods
and rocks, all washed by the tepid vapours of the
Atlantic.
  IThere was one other clergyman of the Church of

England with whom had some personal relations, in
those years between 1845 and 1853, which have left
a lasting impression on my memory. He was in every
thing an absolute contrast to Bishop Wilberforce.
Except that he was in Orders, he was as little as
possible an ecclesiastic. He had no ambition, no
social gifts, no brilliant eloquence. He had no attrac
tion of manner or of conversation. Even his appear
ance was against him. He was a short man, with
broad shoulders and a short neck. He had a pale
face, deeply scored with the lines of meditation and
thought. His eyes alone were striking, when well
looked into. They were large and fine eyes, with a
very earnest and a somewhat perplexed expression.
IThey seemed to be always saying, ' Open   Thou my
                                           contained
eyes, that may behold the wondrous things
in Thy law.' Such was Frederick D. Maurice, than
whom few writers had a greater influence on the
theology of thoughtful Englishmen at that time. He
concerned himself little with the sphere of ideas within
which the Tractarian party moved, and almost as
little with the host of its opponents. His abode was
in the higher conceptions of Christian belief, and his
             to set forth  Ithuesedpurteostatstepnirdituhaisl
delight was  contained.                                        meaning
which they                                                      services
frequently when he was preacher at Lincoln's Inn
Fields.

1844-52]  FREDERICK D. MAURICE          399

The audience in that chapel was remarkable. It
was a small congregation, but consisting almost entirely
of highly-educated and intellectual men, connected with
the Inns of Court. Maurice's sermons were always

Iinteresting, and some of them most impressive.
Ialways listened to them with great attention, although

on coming away was generally conscious of a certain
feeling of incompleteness, as of a want unsatisfied.
He was the first English clergyman who directed
Christian thought to the social problems of political
economy, in this line of action being associated with
Charles Kingsley. Maurice founded a working men's
college in London, and in connection with it he used
to hold meetings with the Artisan College, in which

Ifree discussion was encouraged. At his invitation
attended one, where an incident occurred which
arrested all my attention at the time, and was of use
to me in later years. A workman got up in the middle
of the meeting and addressed the chairman in some
Isuch words as these : ' Mr. Chairman,  wish you
Icould explain to me a question have never been able
to understand. Why should any other man be entitled
to make a profit out of my labour ? Surely the whole
product of that labour ought to be my own, and not a
part of it only. Why should another man take a
Ilarge share of it for himself ?'  had not at that time
Istudied political economy as a science. Of course,
knew the commonplaces of the Protectionist and of
the Free Trade schools, in so far as they had become
stereotyped in political contention, but as a branch
Iof abstract philosophy had never really grasped its
Ifundamental principles, and had been repelled rather
Ithan attracted by the little reading had attempted
Ion the subject.  felt at once that the question put
Iby the working man was a question which could not
really answer. Of course, it was easy to see a rejoinder
which might silence the man without satisfying him.
For example, it would have been easy to tell him that,
if no other man could be allowed to make a profit out

400     LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS [chap, xvni

Iof his labour, neither would any other man ever offer

to employ him. But felt how unsatisfactory this
rejoinder would have been, both to him and to myself,
Iwhat a very little way it went towards explaining the
reason and philosophy of an assumed law.  forget
the answer that was actually given, but that question
has come back upon me again and again in after-years
as one which goes very deep indeed, and explains much
of the inarticulate discontent which lies at the root

I Iof what we call our labour troubles.

     often wished to see more of Maurice than did, but
he never entered into what is called society in London,
and when he called at my house he was very shy and
reserved. On the high themes on which his mind
was set it was, indeed, impossible to enter in general
conversation. The only place in which one can form
an intimate friendship with such a man is a country
house, and one such there was in England where
he was deeply loved. That was Farringford, the
house of Tennyson in the Isle of Wight. The charm
ing lines addressed to him by the Laureate in 1854
are a splendid monument to the fascination of his
character, and the virtuous independence of his
intellect. Like all men who deal honestly with the
stereotyped phrases of technical orthodoxy, Maurice
suffered from the accusations of heresy, which are

Ialways at the call of ignorance and malice. But among

all the theologians of my time, suspect that no one
has had a wider influence than Maurice on the religious
thought of England, from the time he began to publish

his works in 1840, till his death in 1872, a period of
more than thirty years.

   In recalling the years between 1844 and my entering

Iupon official life in the end of 1852, there is no circum

stance of my life in London which recall with greater
pleasure than the habit which then, and for some years
later,  opbfrreevtahakeifleadsdtasya--m--Iotnomg ewalihntiecrhraeraytlhembyreenai,nkvfoaitfsetsdg,ivaitnhgceeretfaiarcisnht
other
meal

1844-52]       BREAKFAST-PARTIES                                            401

limited number of their friends, enough to afford
some variety, but never so many as to prevent the
conversation from being general. The hour was usually
9.30 or 10 a.m., and the gathering generally lasted for
an hour and a half or two hours. Of course, there are

drawbacks to this custom. It breaks into some of the

best hours of the day for the business of life ; it is
incompatible with late hours in Parliament, and to
men not in robust health it is often inconvenient.
But under all other conditions, breakfast-parties are
charming additions to the opportunities of social life.
They had this great advantage : that men who could
nI outseadffotordbetovegrivyefodnindneorfsthceomul,daanldwahyasd        breakfasts.
                                                                  give  satisfaction
                                                                  the

of being often asked by those whose society was most

agreeable.

   The principal breakfast - givers were Bishop
Samuel Wilberforce ; Monckton Milnes, afterwards Lord
Houghton ; Henry Hallam, the historian, and the
father of that Arthur who has been immortalized by
Tennyson ; Macaulay ; Lord Mahon, afterwards Earl
Stanhope ; Sir Charles Lyell, the geologist ; and a few
others. Some of them had a certain speciality
about their guests. At Monckton Milnes' table one
was pretty sure to meet some political refugee from
the storms of Continental revolution, amongst whom
Ihis selection was not conventional. Milnes was not
particular.  doubt if there were many kinds of
political crime which would have excluded any refugee
from Milnes' hospitality. He received all men with
the same jovial and rollicking geniality. Delighting
in paradox, he made his parties very lively and enter
Itaining, whilst there was seldom                                            man
                                   wItanwtainsg                     some    table
of heavier calibre than the rest.                                 at his
that met Herbert Spencer the philosopher. Lord
Mahon was pretty sure to have any distinguished
Iforeigner of the higher class that might be caught in
London. There  met two illustrious Frenchmen,
both literary men of the highest eminence, and both,
vol. i.
                                                                        26

402  LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS   [chap, xvm

in very different spheres, also politicians. One was
Guizot, the fallen Minister of a fallen dynasty ; the
other was Alexis de Tocqueville, author of the cele
Ibrated book upon democracy, which had then an
immense reputation in the world.  had no oppor
tunity of personal conversation with either of them,
but both struck me as quite typical Frenchmen of the
highest intellectual class. Guizot was a short man,
with a very high, rather pyramidal forehead, scanty
grey hair, aquiline nose, and quick, rather haughty
eyes. De Tocqueville was a still smaller man, delicate,
almost fragile, in general appearance, with a small,
pale face, quick eyes, and a general look of great re
finement. Breakfast-parties almost always consisted
bofachmeelnorso. nlyB. utThtohseerewhwoergeavetwothemexcweeprteiongse--neLraolrlyd
Mahon and Sir Charles Lyell. Both had pretty and
charming wives, and they generally invited some
ladies to their breakfasts. My wife was on one
occasion Lady Mahon' s guest, and she was much
captivated by De Tocqueville, whose gentleness of
manner, great refinement of character, and high
intellectual power, all shone through his attenuated
face and frame. Soon after his return to France he

was attacked by haemorrhage from the lungs, and a
hasty retreat to the delicious Riviera, with its beauty
and its sunshine, was too late to save that most

distinguished life.
  IBishop Wilberforce's breakfasts were always most

agreeable. The first ever attended in London was
at his house in 1845, just after his promotion from the
IDeanery of Westminster to the See of Oxford. There
   met for the first and last time in social intercourse
Mr. (afterwards the famous Cardinal) Manning, who
had been married to a sister of the Bishop's wife.

The little rift within the lute, which by-and-by made
that music mute, did not seem to have as yet arisen
Ibetween the two widowers, and both were equally

attached, noted, to their old mother-in-law, Mrs.

1844-52]          SIR CHARLES LYELL                                         403

ISargent, who was present at the breakfast.                                 was
rather struck with Manning, at that time little known,
whose stiff but grave and ascetic face was even then
remarkable, and presented a curious contrast to the
lively    Iahnedarpdlahyifmul  countenance    of the Bishop. Soon
after                          preach in St.  Margaret's Church at

Westminster, when his sermon struck me as one of
decided power and of a peculiar character, unusually
simple, serious, and severe.
Sir Charles Lyell's breakfasts were always a great
pleasure to me. Of course, they were largely scientific
as well as literary in their character, and it was interest
ing to hear Lyell talk when he was full of some new fact in
his special science, which bore on his favourite theory of
Ithe uniformity of geological causation from the earliest

to the latest time. Of that theory had always a
profound distrust, except under such limitations of
meaning as greatly affected the whole conception.

But Lyell was always most faithful to facts, and his
eagerness in gathering and recording them made his
company to me a perpetual delight. Lyell thoroughly
deserved the great reputation of              his books, and especi
ally of his first, ' The Principles           of Geology.' He had
a theory without being a mere theorist. That theory
never was accepted on the Continent as it was to a great
IdeextdeuncttioinnsEntoglbaendm.adeBufrto,mhoitws etvreurthg--reaantdmay be the
                                                                       think they
are very large -- he never was himself at all
He used his theory             --asasscaiensttifriicng               a dogmatist.
always to be used
which the gems                 ootfhears.cerIttainweads,  hypotheses ought
nected with each                                            of thought by
                                                          fact could
                                                           moreover,   be con
                                                                       a theory
which was invaluable in leading men to watch and see
how much is being done or prepared, even now, in the
way of geological causation. Lyell was himself always
open to the significance of new facts, and no man was
ever more eager in searching for them. He had a
curious but very agreeable way of speaking in a half-
whisper, when he had anything new to tell, as if he

                                                                     26--2

404         LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                   [chap, xvm

was almost in awe of the immensities of time and of
the mysteries of creation with which his science dealt,
and on which the new fact might be found to tell.
Lady Lyell was a very pretty and clever little woman,
his efficient helpmate in all his literary works. She
was a sister of Leonard Horner, a man of whom much
had been expected by his college friends, from his
eminent abilities.
Macaulay threw out a wider net in selecting his
guests for breakfast. His political as well as his literary
friends figured largely there. But it mattered little
who formed the party, so far as conversation was con
cerned, for nobody listened to anyone except to
Macaulay himself. Macaulay was the only great
Iconversationalist have ever heard. Of course, it was
Itpeculiar.

was more
     There was very little ' give and                    tIafkaen.'yone
     like soliloquy than conversation.
did interfere, perhaps to ask a question, Macaulay
would instantly reply, ' Don't you remember ?' and
then recommence with endless quotations in illustration
of his reply. Some people thought it oppressive, and
Sydney Smith's famous joke about Macaulay's brilliant
' flashes of silence ' was as true as it was witty. This
must have been the feeling of men who, like Sydney

ISmith, wished themselves to talk. But as never
Ihad the least ambition of this kind, confess that
Macaulay's  tocomnve.ersaIttiownaswtahse  as delightful    as it was
wonderful                                 outpouring     of an inex
haustible memory, illuminated by a brilliant intellect.
And there was one characteristic especially enjoyable
in Macaulay's conversation, and that was its spon
taneity. There never was the least possibility of
suspecting at his table that any subject was introduced
in order that he might hold forth upon it. Anything
and everything that turned up on any branch of
history or of literature drew forth from him the lively
flow of his abundant stores. The criticism might
have been made that there was in his conversation
the same fault as in his writings -- that he drew always

1844-52] TABLE-TURNING AT LORD MACAULAY's                          405

in strong lines and in somewhat violent colours, that
the nicer shadows were wanting. But the strength
and vigour of his language always carried one away
Iwith

  It
unceasing surprise and admiration.                           when  he
was at one of Macaulay's breakfasts,
lived in the Albany, that saw an incident which was
Ia curious physical counterpart of the mental pheno

mena had seen in connection with mesmerism in
IProfessor Gregory's house in Edinburgh. The party
was unusually large for a breakfast.                    think there
were a dozen or more guests. The eatables had
nearly disappeared, and over coffee and tea we were
enjoying a quiet and serious general conversation, when
someone introduced the subject of mesmeric table-
turning. Macaulay was always perfectly intolerant on
the subject. He was vociferous in his expressions of
ridicule and contempt. Whereupon one of the guests
said : ' Well, now, here we are, more than a dozen
people, all knowing each other, and all sitting round one
table. Why should we not join hands round it, and
make one continuous chain, and then see if
happens.' ' By        all                                    anything
                     only    --methanast,'   said Macaulay,  ' but on
one condition                               we don't cease   talking.'
Amid much laughter this was universally agreed to,
and we all joined hands on the surface of the table,
resuming conversation as before. Before we had sat
ctheurstainmloyr--e   than   a very few minutes --less than five
                     we all   felt the table give a sudden jolt or
Ijump in an upward direction.
IMacaulay's face.                             shall never forget
                             was sitting next him, and my
hand of course was touching his. He betrayed in his
expression astonishment, bordering on alarm. He let
go my hand, jumped up on his feet, pushed back his
chair, and, lifting the tablecloth, peered under the
table to see if anyone was there who could have
caused the motion by lifting it on his shoulders for a
moment. There was nothing there. Macaulay then
resumed     his       seat, and                   to                of
the guests           Did you give  proceeded  to   the  ask each   All
                '                   a shove              table ?'

              :

406  LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                                                                    [chap, ivin

I Ireplied in the negative, till he came to Bishop Wilber-

force, who said : ' Well, am not quite sure that may
Inriodtithcuuonluocguohsnt scrseoiop'u--lyslyaMnhdaacavheuelagwyiovuernldoditehaeoalfirft--tnleo'  push.' On     this
                                                                                                                  is ;
                                                                                                   Ah, there it  the

                                                                                                    more upon
subject. This was a curious exhibition of character
I Ion the part of Wilberforce.
                                    felt at the time, and
feel equally sure now, that he was tempted to say what
he did by his invincible love of saying what would
please. He saw that Macaulay was taking the matter
rather seriously, and was annoyed as well as much
surprised. He knew the explanation current at the
time, that table movements were due to the unconscious
pressure exerted by a number of hands and arms in
some particular direction. So, wishing to let Macaulay
' down easy,' he gave the ambiguous answer which
Ijust afforded the requisite loophole of escape.
                                                                                                                 do
Inot say this because was then, or am now, either a
determined believer or a determined disbeliever in the
I Ieffects produced by that unknown agency which went

by the name of mesmerism : say it because was
quite certain that the Bishop's half-suggested explana
tion was absolutely inapplicable to the case. The
table at which we sat was not one of those small and
lIitghwt atsabaleslaargt ewhainchd  the experiment was                                             often tried.
                                    heavy dining-table,                                             resting on
several legs, upon  itascasurprfeatceo.fferIinfgamll utchhe                                        friction  to  any
movement upon                                                                                                at  the
                                                                                                    guests
table had agreed to push or shove in any one direction
at one and the same time, they could never have
produced the motion we all felt, even if they could
have produced any motion at all. The movement was
not one of sliding or               slilfiptipnignganadloansgsuthdedefnlodorro:ppitinwga--s
a movement of sudden
a heaving, and a jolt in falling again. Something had
Iovercome the weight of                                                                            tihtutmhrpo.ughI

a small space, and let
have no theory to                   the table, had lifted
theory to explain                   it fall again with a
                                    mmoreentathl anphenohmadenaanyI
                     offer, any
                    the strange

1844-52]          HENRY HALLAM                   407

I Ihave described in connection with the same subject at
Edinburgh.        was then, and still am, content to
believe that there are agencies of great and subtle
power of which we know nothing, and the instances of

which it is immaterial to discuss, because the laws and

conditions of their working are as yet unknown.
I only recollect once breakfasting with the venerable
IHenry Hallam, the eminent historian.  found it

Isomewhat difficult to distinguish between the atmo

sphere of feeling in which then regarded him and
that in which he came to be surrounded in later years,
by an inseparable association with the immortal poem

Idedicated to his lost elder son. As it so happened,
IhHhiaasdlla' mLdiet--erirvhaeitsdur'eCmooonrfsetEituukrtnoioopnwealle' --dgHtehisatnofrroyfmroomf tEhanengylawnootdrhke'srasnodf
Icould have named, and felt anxious to know him
Ibetter personally.  had been told that in private
Iconversation he was disposed to be antagonistic and
contradictious.   found him, on the contrary, every
thing that was gentle and agreeable. He had then
suffered that first great loss which all the world has
been led to mourn with him. But his second loss
of the same kind, that of his only remaining son, had
not yet occurred, and that son was at the table
with us. Even then there was an air of melan

choly submission about the old man which was
Itouching, and which seemed almost the presage of
further sorrows.  recollect being told that he could
not bear any talk on the subject of mesmerism, and
that on one occasion, when it had been introduced

in his presence, he became somewhat agitated,

and said abruptly: 'I've heard a voice.' Of course,
the subject was immediately changed. Hallam was
a man of middle size, with a square head, a very
massive brow, rather small blue eyes, deeply set, with
a slightly aquiline nose, and a very strong chin, with a
projecting under-jaw and lip. His hair was very grey,
but was not white. He was considered pre-eminently

408            LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS        [chap, iviii

the Whig historian. We had great pleasure at a
later date in persuading him to visit us at Inveraray.
He had none of Macaulay's extraordinary conver

Isational powers. But before knew him his sorrows
Ihad much weighed him down, and was told that
a few years earlier, when he and Macaulay met,
there was often a splendid display of fighting between
the two, Hallam's utterance being often too fast for
distinct pronunciation of his eager and rapid words.

  It is needless here to say much about Gladstone's
breakfasts, both because they continued far into later
Iyears, and because they formed a very small part of
my social intimacy with him.                     may say, however,
that they were always most agreeable, from his own
great charm and wealth of conversation, and from the
variety of the sources from which the guests were
drawn. They were widely miscellaneous. Art and
Theology, as well as mere literature, sent their con
Iwtinegreenotfst,enwrhepilrsetseontfedc.oursIet   the ranks of politicians
                                                 was at one of these parties
that first saw Arthur Balfour, of whom our host
               me in highly appreciative terms.
IspoItkewatos  during the same early years in London  that
made a rather intimate acquaintance with Professor
Owen. He was then Curator of the Hunterian Museum
Iin Lincoln's Inn Square, and besides frequent visits

there, occasionally attended his lectures on the grow

ing science of paleontology. In his lecture-room, long

Ibefore the publication of Darwin's ' Origin of Species,'

which did not take place till 1859, became familiar
with the significant but mysterious fact of the gradual
appearance in the course of time of our domesticable
animals, that they had been late introductions before
the advent of man, and that approaches to their
peculiar structure could be traced through an ad
vancing series of pre-existing forms, as if these were
being gradually prepared. He particularly mentioned
a creature which for several ages was making a gradual
approach to the special and quite peculiar organiza

1844-52]      PROFESSOR OWEN                                        409

tion of the horse. Owen did not connect this series
of forms with any theory as to its physical cause,
whether of hereditary descent or otherwise : he
was content with indicating the indisputable fact.
These facts, however dim and vague in their details,
delighted me, as indications of that same element of
preparation and design for a future destiny which had
been so long familiar to me in the growth of the
Ielements out of which wings are made in existing birds.
   thought much on this subject and on the problems

which it suggests. These problems are, indeed, in
numerable, and although they may be for ever
insoluble, yet every thought about them is so full
of suggestiveness that reflecting on the subject is
I Ian education in itself.
                          cannot say that did this
Iin the pursuance of any deliberate plan of study ;
Idid it in pursuance of an instinctive tendency of my

own mind, of which have been conscious from very
early years, never to feel contented with the know
ledge of  mfoelrleowfasctfsr,ombutthaelmwa--ysthtaot  think   and
on what                                                is to  say,  speculate
                                                                     on what
              tohaobrit,invI oflovuen. d  By dint of this tendency
    lead up                               that was gaining more
    constant
Ithey

and
or less a grasp at least of principles, and a power of
referring to its proper place in science any new fact
or  discovery which was                                to light.
                          being brought               very few
    It was curious to me  to note how                               hearers

ever attended those lectures, delivered by a man then
already of great reputation, nearly connected by
disci pleship with the illustrious Cuvier, and his only
representative and successor in the wide sphere of

comparative anatomy. In Scotland such lectures
would have been crowded by men of very different
classes. But in England the habit of attending

Iscientific lectures has never been formed, and used
to sit with some half-dozen, or at most a score, of

listeners when facts and ideas of the highest mystery
Iand interest were being communicated by a very
accomplished lecturer.    soon became very fond of

410 LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS [chap, xvin

Owen. He was a very singular-looking man--tall,
raw-boned, and gaunt, with an immense head. His
face was very large, with a prodigious forehead, and
very large eyes, which seemed highly speculative and
pondering in thought, as well as watchful of all ex
ternal things. He had very high and broad cheek
bones ; the mouth was small ; but the most peculiar
feature of Owen's frame was his hand. He used to
             that the ' opposable digit ' of the human hand
--teltlhues  thumb --was the great peculiarity of man's
structure, being the member which gave to the hand
its special powers of various manipulation, a peculi
arity in which none of the lower animals, not even the
highest apes, have any share. But Owen had fingers

and a thumb which seemed to me to be ' opposable '
through arcs of movement larger and wider than were
attainable by other men. His fingers seemed to lap
round the objects he handled, so as completely to
iIntvewstas  them with        soft but universal application.
              beautiful    a  see him holding some delicate
                         to
articulation of bones, so round and round that the
whole of it was embraced, and yet so tenderly that not
the most delicate portions could be crushed. Owen
was reputed among scientific men to be not without
some faults of jealousy, but to outsiders generally,
and to me in particular, he was always most charming
Iand instructive.        persuaded him to come to Inver
Iaray, and there had the happiness of introducing him
to a living creature which he had never seen before, and
the continued existence of which in our time is con
nected with one of the great mysteries in the history
of organic life. That mystery is the substitution of
one kind and pattern of creature for another pattern,
which becomes obsolete and extinct. Thus, in the
secondary ages, the shell-fish of the ocean were in large
proportion of a very peculiar form and structure,
called brachiopods. Other shell-fish, widely different
both in structure and in form, have now usurped
their place. But here and there the old brachiopods

1844-52]      AMERICANS IN LONDON                                            411

Isurvive, and it happens that one of these places is

Loch Fyne. took Owen out in a boat, and we dredged
up at a certain spot some ten or a dozen specimens
of living brachiopods, closely resembling the antique
and almost vanished forms, with which he was so well
Iacquainted in the museums. He was much interested

and delighted. was a close reader of all Owen's books,
and he seldom wrote any important scientific paper
without sending me an early copy. His book on the
'  Nature of  Limbs ' was   an education in   itself to me.
    had been    accustomed    from childhood    to look at
I
the wings of a bird as in the nature of an elaborate
Iapparatus for the accomplishment of flight.
                                                                             saw

that this explanation of them was in no way super
sbeydeOd,wbenut--tnhaamt ealnyo, thWerhaatndwlearregerwiqnugesstiionn   was raised
                                                                       relation to

the arms of men and to the legs of dogs, even to the
fins of fishes, and to the limbs of all other creatures

having a vertebrate skeleton ?

  IWhen Professor Owen rose above the horizon,
Isoon made acquaintance with him, and read with

intense interest his celebrated book ' On the Homo
logies of the Vertebrate Skeleton.' This dealt with
the same question in still larger and more fundamental
aspects. By this course of reading, which included,

Iof course, all the relative papers in the scientific

journals, felt myself comparatively well furnished
with data, both of facts and of inferences from them,
to deal with the memorable book of Darwin when it
   published in 1859.
   was in London in
Iwas                   the  years  1848  and                           1849  that

  It
my wife and first made acquaintance with a number
of Americans, some of whom became fast friends for
life, and all of whom contributed no small share to our
social enjoyments. Lord Carlisle had met them when
he was in America, and, of course, they were most
cordially received at Stafford House, and, indeed, in
London society generally. The first who came was
Charles Sumner, the leader of the Abolitionist party

412         LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                [chap, xvin

in the American Senate. He was a tall, good-looking
man, very erect in attitude, with a genial smile and a
very intellectual expression. We became very inti
Imate friends, and he visited us repeatedly at Inveraray.
   always found his conversation full of charm, not
only from his devotion to one great cause, but from
his wide and cultivated interest in literature and in
art. Prescott, the historian of Ferdinand and Isabella,
was another of this group of Americans, a man of quite
singular charm of countenance, of manners, and of

Iconversation. All but a very few of the Americans
speak of were in favour of the abolition of slavery,
and we forget now what that opinion exposed them to
at that time. The fierce passions which it aroused, not
only in the Southern States, but in the North, per
meated all the relations of society and of private life.
The result, of course, was that only minds of the
         moral fibre                were able    to confront the   blast.
highest  this fibre, in              greater or                    every
And to                                           less proportion,
human character must owe any charm it can possess.
Americans of the highly cultured class appear to have
an openness and artlessness of nature which give and
invite confidential                            There   could not
two more different   friendship.           Sumner     and Prescott  --be
                     men than
Sumner immersed in politics and engrossed with one
great subject of fierce contention ; Prescott a typical
man of letters, a quiet student, and a calm and re
flective writer. Yet they both had in an eminent
degree that tenderness and gentleness of manners
that surely and speedily turns acquaintance into
affection.
   Among the Americans who came to London in 1849

was Emerson, the celebrated essayist. In some re
spects he was the analogue of our own Thomas Carlyle.
Ttuhreeyofboththeirhetilmd et--hea         aberrant place in the litera
                                    same   which defied classification--
                                    place
voices like those of prophets crying in the wilderness,
and when listened to, dimly understood. And yet
nothing could be more absolutely different than those

1844-52]        EMERSON AND CARLYLE                                                                         413

two men personally. Carlyle was eruptive, loud, and
often violent and even coarse in his sentiments and in
his language, with an expression sometimes almost
diabolical. Emerson was calm, peaceful, reflective,
saEenmrdaeprhhsa.odn'saI llwewacetyunsrtetshweiinthcLoounLnodtorednn.anCcaeIrtlisawlneads  expression of a
                                                                                           to hear one of
                                                                                           full of a dreamy
beauty, delivered slowly, in an equable and pleasant
voice, and with perfect calmness of countenance and
expression. There was no continuous thread of
ttihoonu.ghtIt  nor central principle of intellectual concep
                 was one continuous flow of                                                senIttimweanst,    of
precept,        of imagery, and of exhortation.                                                             like
watching some beautiful butterfly in its flight over a
boundless prairie, picking out and lighting upon all the
Iflowers, and then passing on with some little sip of
honey.          recollect well one sentence, typical of many
others : ' Crowd as many virtues as you can into the
soft fresco of the present, for it is hourly hardening
into an immortal picture.' This is a fine image, finely
expressed, and there were many other passages of a
similar kind of beauty. But when this sort of thing
went on for an hour, ranging over the whole field of
sentiment and benevolence, it did rather begin to
cloy. Above all, one felt                   atItthweasenlidke                              that   it was
wanting in bone and gristle.                                                                the
                                                                                                 diffused
perfume of Christian ethics, but without its doctrine

Ior its teaching, and therefore without its power.
Ifound that Carlisle entirely agreed with me on its
vagueness and want of grip.                 met Emerson after

wards at Stafford House, and he gave me personally
the same                               His  countenance was beautiful
in a way.       imItprwesassiofnu.ll  of a
                                            sweet tranquillity, as if we
were all living in the best possible of worlds, and had
nothing to do but to interpret it aright in order to
realise that it was so. He had none of the sadness of
the old Stoics, but all that was loftier in him than in
them seemed to be simply borrowed from Christianity,
only without acknowledgment.

414         LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                     [chap, xvin

IThere was one other solitary figure which passes
dvaivyisd--ly thaecrfoisgsuretheof  stage of  memory as       recall those
                                    one who   left a deep  impression on

Iher time and a lasting blessing to the generations
following.  refer to Mrs. Elizabeth Fry, the great
Quakeress philanthropist-reformer. The story of her
entering, alone and entirely undefended, into a prison
reserved for abandoned and vicious women, of whom
even the keepers were so afraid that they never
could go except in company, is a story which               used to
thrill me with admiration and astonishment.
                                                            It was
a great pleasure, therefore, to meet this illustrious
Iwoman. She was the only really very great human

being have ever met with whom it was impossible
to be disappointed. She was, in the fullest sense of
the word, a majestic woman. She was already advanced
in years, and had a very tall and stately figure. But
it was her countenance that was so striking. Her
features were handsome, in the sense of being well-
proportioned, but they were not in the usual sense
beautiful. Her eyes were not large, or brilliant, or
transparent. They were only calm and wise and
steady. But over the whole countenance there was
                                    of sweetness,  dignity, and power.
                                    to feel some   awe before her, as
IIatn
ineffable expression                          understood in a moment
was impossible not

before some superior being.
the story of the prison. She needed no defence but
that of her own noble and almost divine countenance.
IA few well-known words came to my mind the moment

  saw her : ' The peace of God that passeth all under
            ItThiseya  summarized the whole expression of
standing.'             rare thing indeed, in this poor world
her face.

of ours, to see any man or any woman whose person
ality responds perfectly to the ideal conception formed
of an heroic character and an heroic life.

  IAt this time often met Sir Robert Inglis, the
IPresident of the Literary Society have mentioned,
Iwhose dinners were held at the Thatched House

Tavern in St. James's Street, where spent many

1844-52]     SIR ROBERT INGLIS            415

pleasant evenings. This club, although not confined
to authors, was composed of men with some flavour of
Iliterature about them. There was no great celebrity

in it during the few years continued to be a member,
but it was frequented by a number of very clever and
Iagreeable men. Our chairman, Sir Robert Inglis, was
--beastt-klenaoswt,nbymsaignhtaamnodnbgy  us. had known him
                                          reputation -- ever since
the

Iwell
had attended the House of Commons debates as a boy.
There was no man more familiar or more respected in
that Assembly. He was a man rather below the
middle height, stout and rotund in figure, with head of
the most shining and polished baldness. He had a
rubicund face, a profile gently aquiline, rather small
eyes, and a most mild and benevolent expression. The
perfect blandness and courtesy of his address was
in strange contrast with the rigidity of his opinions.
As regards these, he was a perfect, and almost the only
remaining, specimen of the old High Tory and of the
old-fashioned High Churchman. He had never detected
the slightest difference between the Articles and certain
parts of the devotional forms of the Liturgy. The
' New Oxford Movement,' then called Puseyism or
Tractarianism, passed under Sir Robert Inglis' s feet
without making him budge one inch.        The affectation
of translating the well-known word        ' Roman ' into
' Catholic,' and the endeavour to make the Church of
England more ' Catholic ' than it was, revolted him.
He was what would now be called an Ultra-Protestant.
He hugged those large and characteristic parts of the
English Prayer-Book which repudiated and con
demned Romanism in all its leading ideas, and he
resisted every movement of Liberalism which weakened,
as he thought, the defences of the Protestant Constitu
tion in Church and State. His well-known and
uncompromising opinions on all these subjects were
vividly brought before me during the performance of a
ceremony shortly after the formation of the Aberdeen

Government.

416  LONDON SOCIETY AND FRIENDS                                                  [chap, xvil1

Sir Robert Inglis was included in a new batch of
Privy Councillors. For the purpose of swearing in
new members, meetings of the Privy Council with
the Queen were then generally held at Buckingham
Palace. The Queen sat at one end of a long
green baize table, with the Prince Consort in a
chair at her right hand. On Her Majesty's left hand
stood the Clerk of the Council with the documents
requiring the Queen's signature and the Book of the
Oaths, which a new Privy Councillor was required to
take whilst kneeling on a cushion beside the Queen's
chair, before kissing Her Majesty's hand. The Queen
always maintained the utmost dignity and gravity of
demeanour, although the terms of the oath then
administered somewhat grated on the ear, redolent as

it was of old revolutionary times, when Roman doctrines
were a real danger, were denounced as ' damnable,' and
were solemnly repudiated by the new member of Her
Majesty's most Honourable Privy Council. When Sir
Robert Inglis's rubicund face and bald head were seen
surmounting the table close to the Queen's left hand,
and when he came to the most spicy words in the oath,
repudiating the old Jacobite heresies, it seemed as if
I'therewnoorutnhcyeBaanrodnaebt hroerptehaeteddatmhneamblweitdhoscptreinciea.l'  unction
                                                                                   Where  :

upon Lord Aberdeen, who was sitting next to me, only
some two or three chairs down the right-hand side of
Ithe table, leaned                     and   said
                                       That   he
cally, in rather a
              over   towards   me                  deomesp.'hatIi t
               loud   whisper
                                    '

                                :

was very naughty of him, for was really afraid that
the quick eyes and even ears of the Queen might catch
the interposition of her Prime Minister.
IBefore returning now to the main stream of my
life as a member of the new Government,                                          may
              a lasting source of  rDegicrkeet,nst,haatlthinousgohciaIl
Imention, as   never met Charles

intercourse
Iwas a great admirer of his writings, and although some
of my own friends were friends of his.       heard him
make one speech at the annual dinner of the Royal

1844-52]          CHARLES DICKENS                                              417

IAcademy, and at a later date heard him read and act
from one   oinIfthliwasanosgwutanhgetea--vleestr.hye  As a speaker   he was    quite
                                                      perfection of              and
peculiar.                                                            neatness   who
precision                                              speaking of    a man
knew exactly what he was going to say, and how best
to say it. But it was without fire, or tones of
enthusiasm, or flights of fancy ; there was nothing that
makes the orator. On the other hand, in dramatic
reading and in acting, he was really wonderful, full of
the most various powers in the expression of humour,
and of pathos, and of ferocious villainy. Dickens had
the faculty, which many great actors have had, of
somehow getting rid of their own physical identity,
Iand appearing with a wholly different face and a wholly
different voice.  never saw this power so astonish
ingly exerted as by Charles Dickens.

VOL. 1.                                                              27

CHAPTER XIX

1853

Gladstone's budget

ITo return to the political world, it so happened, by

the purest accident, that had to bring before the
Cabinet the determining consideration in an important
question. That was whether the subject of the rela
tions of the East India Company to the Crown in the
government of India should be immediately dealt with,
or postponed to another year. The periodical time for
which those relations had been settled came round again
Iin 1854, and they had to be reconsidered. This was

a subject on which was well grounded by a thorough
knowledge of the principles involved in the great

struggle between Pitt and Fox in 1784. That know
ledge had brought home to me, what few people
seemed to understand, that under Pitt's ingenious
scheme, which Parliament adopted, and which had
lasted then for seventy-four years, the government of
India, properly so called, was entirely in the hands of
the Crown, and that the name  paunrdpomseacohninleyr--y thoaf tthoef
Company were kept up for one
keeping out of the hands of Ministers at home the
power of jobbing the immense patronage and the
lucrative trade which were the incidents of administra
tion. The Court of Directors had been kept up for
this and for no other purpose. Nearly all the political
orders of that body were absolutely subject to the
Ministers of the Crown. The Crown, through the
Board of Control, could not only alter and amend any
despatch, but could cancel it, and substitute another

418

1853] THE EAST INDIA COMPANY                           419

in its stead. The only thing they could not do was
to use the revenues of India or the patronage of India
Ifor the purposes of political corruption.

   Knowing all this, always looked upon the cry that
the government of India ought to be transferred from
the Company to the Crown as to a large extent non

sense, inasmuch as it asked for that which had been
already done. One great political
indeed left in the hands of the Court  opf oDwireerctohrasd--bteheant

of recalling the Governor-General appointed by the
Crown.   But this        a power clearly   meant to
extreme             was  been very lately  exercised,  meet
         cases. It  had                                when
the directors recalled Lord Ellenborough, the nominee
of the strong Government of Sir Robert Peel. But
this exercise of a power usually dormant had been very
Iwidely approved by the country. On the whole, there

fore, saw no good reason for change, and was disposed
to regard any proposed modifications as matters of
small importance. There was no public agitation on
the subject. No great interest in the country was
aggrieved by the Company, since it had been deprived
of its old monopolies of trade to China and to India.
Still, there always is in the House of Commons some
jealousy of outside bodies like the Court of Directors,
with large powers over which it has no right of in
terference. A Committee had been sitting for some
time on the subject, but had not yet reported. The
members of the new Government had paid little
attention to the matter, and had no definite views upon
it. Under these circumstances, there was a great
temptation to postpone the question to another
Isession, and to pass an interim continuance Act in the

meantime. This, think, would certainly have been
the conclusion come to, but for the accidental informa

Ition which brought to the Cabinet.
  IDuring the early months of 1853 my wife and were
residing with the Sutherlands at the beautiful villa of
IClieveden, near Taplow, which the Duke had lately
bought.  delighted in it, not only for the loveliness

                                           27--2

420  Gladstone's budget                            [chap. XIX

of the position, but  fIor   the  wealth of birds  in its woods
and shrubberies.            used    to go into     London for
ICabinet meetings by rail, returning in the evening to

Clieveden. did so for a Cabinet at which it had been
settled that the question about the East India Com
pany should be decided. At Paddington Station
an office-messenger brought to me my letters, and the
Ifirst one opened was a long one from Dalhousie, the
IGovernor-General of India.       had been in occasional
correspondence with him ever since he had left home.
IHe had been pleased by my speech at his farewell
banquet in Edinburgh, and         had watched his
Ibrilliant career in India with the pleasure of a kinsman

and a friend. On reading his letter, found that,
whilst he felt he had no right to volunteer his opinion on
any changes which the Cabinet might desire to make
on the framework of the government of India, as
between the Crown and the organs of the Company,
he did feel free to express his anxious hope that there
would be no postponement, since such a course might
give rise to speculations and agitations not without
risk to the authority of the Imperial Government.
IOf course, took that letter at once to the Cabinet, and
Iit decided the matter.           recollect Graham solemnly
shaking his Olympian head, and saying: 'We can't
go against so decided an opinion from the Governor-
General.' Strange to say, Dalhousie himself was rather
Icross with me for reading to my colleagues a letter

which was private. But defended myself vigorously,

Iand told him that held it to be my absolute duty to
Iinform my colleagues of his opinion, and heard no
more of the matter. Aberdeen and Charles Wood
between them cooked up a Bill, resettling the govern

ment of India practically on the same basis, and it
Ipassed through both Houses with no difficulty.
     now come to one great experience of my official life
which gave me a more lively pleasure than any other,
and which even now often fills me with astonishment
and admiration. We all knew that our fate as a

1853]  MR. GLADSTONE AND THE INCOME-TAX             421

Government would depend on Gladstone's proposals
on finance. This was not a usual condition of affairs.

At all times, indeed, the defeat of any Government
on its Budget would be serious or fatal. But it is not
very often that Governments are compelled to make
very highly critical proposals of a purely financial

kind. In war, or in times of immediately apprehended
war, the advisers of the Crown enjoy an authority
derived from their position which discourages any
attack on their plans for meeting the necessary cost.
But this was not our case, so far as any of us then
knew. On the contrary, it was a time of profound
peace. And yet a variety of circumstances compelled
us to devise some new scheme of public income and
steshepxetpireiutln.apdtoientIutroGewuo,ravsaepnrluandpnmtoshen--enttaw.hnhedoIlBetfuhadaattgnt,eeytntottoidoh,enabintaotwefaethheheivgaephdrelyodtpeuclferrenitaswitceaadsal
division, that vote of the House of Commons had been
determined by Gladstone's splendid dissection of
Disraeli's pretentious Budget. And, besides this
necessity arising out of universal public expectation, a
still more definite necessity arose out of the fact that
the period for which the income-tax had been estab
lished was just about to terminate. There was, more
over, a fierce agitation against its renewal, unless it was
to be reconstructed on vague principles, which had
never yet been tested in the light of any close reasoning,
or of any clear exposition of the consequences such a
reconstruction must involve. Without the income-tax,
we could not get on. The question therefore had to
be faced, and it was a question which of necessity
involved our whole financial system.
On taking office as Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Gladstone had set himself to his work with powers of
intellect and of will which had never yet been gauged
Iby any of us, still less by the world in general.  have
already mentioned that, at his instance, a small Com

Imittee of the Cabinet had been appointed, of which

422             Gladstone's budget                                     [chap. XIX

was a member, to consider the particular question of a
reconstructed income-tax, on the principle of what was
c' aplrleedcar'ioduifsfe'reanntidatiningcom' ebsetwweheicnh  incomes   which were
                                                               were '  permanent.'
The Cabinet never dealt with it as an abstract question,
and, practically, so much depended on the financial
measures accompanying any interference in the income-
tax, that it could hardly do so. We therefore all
waited till Gladstone had matured his plans. This
was not until far on in the month of April. We did not
at that time meet in the large and comparatively
commodious room in No. 10, Downing Street, in which
ICabinets were always held at a somewhat later date,

and in which, believe, the Cabinets of Mr. Pitt had
been held. We met in a small and rather shabby
room looking into the street. There at last a Cabinet
was summoned to hear and consider the critical
proposals of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He
came into the room with a large, flat, and shallow
official box, very old and shabby, covered with drab-
coloured leather. He sat on a chair nearly fronting
the window, whilst we all sat in a kind of loop around
him. Opening the box on his knee so that its lid stood
upright and afforded a rest for any paper placed upon
its edge, he began a conversational exposition, which
endured, without a moment's interruption, for more
than three hours. Not a word of it was read, except
when he had to refer to exact figures, which were
accurately put down on pages of full-sized letter-paper
which just fitted the box. The flow of language was
uninterrupted, with just enough inflection of voice to
mark the passages from mere statements of arithmetical
bent to reflections upon them, or to consequent argu
ments and conclusions. The order was perfect in its
lucidity, and the sentences as faultless as they were
absolutely unhesitating. Never for a moment did he
overrun himself on any point, or require to hark back
iInt  order to  recover some forgotten or                    sotmreiattmed--mpaaststienrg.
      was like  the flow of some crystal

1853] A MEMORABLE CABINET MEETING 423

sometimes through narrows, and elsewhere spreading
itself over broader channels, but everywhere glancing
with light, full of lively movement. Not one of us
could  think for     Imtosmeeemntedof   interrupting him,  even to
ask a  question.  a                    not only to leave   nothing

obscure or incomplete, but to raise and to settle, as it
went along, a thousand questions which had not
occurred to any of us before.

  I look back upon it as by far the most wonderful intel
Ilectual effort that have ever listened to from the lips
of man. Perhaps those who have not had themselves
some experience of different kinds of public speaking
can hardly appreciate how great the effort was. On
Ia much smaller scale, and on subjects comparatively

simple, have myself tried to state a case conversa
Itionally, and yet formally, to a group of colleagues or
to a committee.      know that the strain of such an
effort is far greater than in making a regular speech
to a public assembly, in which case the speaker can,
and generally does, seek some relief in digressions
and excursions round his subject, which may amuse his
audience; or he may indulge in illustrations which
may enliven them and recover wandering attention.
Nothing of this kind is possible with a dozen colleagues
sitting round one and listening with all their ears,
in a critical spirit, to proposals in which they must
share a full responsibility. There is absolutely no
room for oratory, in the sense in which the word is
generally used. There is not even room for gesture,
which is of itself a great relief in public speaking.
Gladstone had one physical habit when his mind
was much engrossed   haendmaadnex.iousI,t  which was almost
the only movement                          was the habit of
twisting the feather of a quill pen into a ball, of
unrolling it, and then rolling it up again. Beyond this
hardly perceptible trick, and an occasional glance with
his large dark eyes towards his colleagues as they sat
Ibreathless round him, there was perfect stillness and

composure in his manner. And yet never heard

si424
          'Gladstone's budget                 [chap,

a speech, even of the highest oratory, which  so riveted
my attention and that of all my colleagues.
                                                It is to
be remembered, too, that he had some special diffi
culties to contend with. The financial difficulties of

the country were undoubtedly the result of feeble
handling by the Whig Government which had suc
ceeded that of Sir Robert Peel. Yet he was addressing
a Cabinet in which that old party was powerfully
represented, and he had to deal with his retrospects
in this connection, and with his proposals for the future,
so as not to awaken prejudice or tread on natural and

perfectly legitimate susceptibilities. All this very nice
steering was done with incomparable skill. He knew
also that several members of the Cabinet were more
than half disposed to give way to the cry for a recon
structed   income-tax.  --Thois  this subject he bent all                                the
powers    of his mind            analysis, his ingenuity
                                                                                          of
illustration, and the earnestness which comes from
absolute conviction. He proved to demonstration
that differentiation in the tax, according to different
sources of income, must involve anomalies far worse

than any which could be alleged against the existing
tax, and must of necessity involve also a breach of

Ifaith with the public creditor. Having carried us,
think, all along with him, in so far that none of us could
see a flaw in his reasoning, he opened to us the great
principle on which his Budget was to rest-- namely,
not to damage and destroy a great instrument of
finance, but to keep it, and even to extend it ; and to
restore that connection which Peel had established

between the income-tax and great reforms in other
parts of our financial system, which, without the income-
tax, could not be afforded. Pitt had invented it for
the purposes of a great war. Peel had recalled it into
existence for the purposes of a great tariff reform.

In both cases it had been eminently successful,
how successful, he spent some time in showing. There
swaamseevdeirreyctrieoanso--n retodubcetiloienvseinthtaatxfeusrtahfefer crteinfogrmthse  in the

                                                                                          great

1853]             INCOME-TAX                    425

articles of consumption --would be equally successful
and remunerative. His advice to the Cabinet was to
frame our Budget on this principle. He showed that
there were solid grounds for expecting that a policy of
this kind might be framed to give what would so
reinforce the revenue from other sources, that we
might in no long time dispense with the income-tax
altogether. He advised that this happy consummation
should be distinctly held out, as the end towards
which we desired to shape our course. But in the
meantime it was absolutely necessary, not only to
resist all attempts to break down this powerful instru
ment of finance, but even in some directions to extend
its operation. He would propose to widen somewhat
the area from which it was raised in England and
Scotland, and he would propose, further, to extend it
for the first time to Ireland. He pointed out how little
reason or justice there was in the total exemption jot
that part of the  United Kingdom.     True, it
poorer country.   But the income-tax            was^a
                                      was not   levied

from the poor, but from the well-to-do, and the well-
to-do in Ireland were as well off as the same class in
Britain. Turning, then, to his proposed remissions of
indirect taxation (on tea and soap), he expounded the
reasons    for his selection with  thveerysalmaregem--aurpvwelalorudss
             The total amount was
lucidity.
of five millions of pounds, a sum equal to the whole
produce of the income-tax at that time. Soap and
tea were the largest sacrifices, but there were a number
of other sensible alterations of burdens, all tending to
make various classes feel that they were to get some
thing for submitting once more, and for a time only, to
the obnoxious income-tax. Finally, he pointed out the
data on which he calculated that the elasticity of the
revenue, under a new stimulus to trade, would probably
enable us to abolish the income-tax in the course of
seven years. He recommended that an Income Act
should provide for that consummation by steps of reduc
tion in the rate, until in 1860 it should altogether cease.

426        Gladstone's budget                                        [chap. XIX

During the three hours of this wonderful perform
ance we had all sat on our chairs as still as mice,
spellbound under the hands of the magician. For a
moment we remained so, as if our minds were full of
an intense intellectual enjoyment, and our ears were

filled by the tones of that persuasive voice. But in
asunpoptrheesrsemd omeexnctitewmeenwte--re   all on our  feet, in a  state of
                                            some of us     grouped     round
Gladstone himself, others round some special friend
or old colleague, and talking in half-suppressed voices
of admiration, or of astonishment, or doubt. There
Iwas no particle of doubt in my mind, and on looking

round the Cabinet, felt pretty confident that the

IBudget was safe. Lord John Russell looked so deeply

impressed that felt sure he was all right. Graham,
who had been an old colleague of Gladstone in the
Government of Sir Robert Peel, looked proud and
pleased by this fulfilment of a splendid promise. There
was no question, of course, of any decision then and
there. The scheme was so large, so new, so bold, that
Isome time was needed to understand it in all its
bearings.  do not believe that Gladstone had con
fided in any one of his colleagues, except, perhaps, in
Aberdeen. His grave face showed no emotion, except
just a little of a satisfied smile. No one had been more
impressed than he had with the necessity of meeting
the nearly universal cry for a differentiation of the
income-tax. Yet it was in the face of this condition of
things that Gladstone was now proposing to us, not
only that no concession should be made on this subject,
but that the income-tax just as it was, with all its sins
upon its head, should not only be renewed, but should
be extended to lower incomes than now paid it, and
for the first time to the whole of Ireland.

The absolute secrecy which is observed, or ought
to be observed, in all Cabinets is, of course, specially
important in the case of Budgets, because the in
numerable commercial interests, always more or less

affected, would render any secret knowledge a dan

1853]  VIEWS OF CABINET MINISTERS             427

gerous source of speculative tricks. But on this
occasion, absolute secrecy was doubly important, seeing
that success or failure entirely depended, not only on
the astounding proposals we contemplated remaining

unknown till announced in Parliament, but especially
on that announcement being made by Gladstone him
self, in the forms of statement and of reasoning of
which he was so great a master, and to which alone he
was in possession of the clues. As we were deeply
impressed with this consideration, the time of our
incubation was faithfully used by all of us in the
secret councils of our own minds. There were one
or two exceptions made by Gladstone himself in the
way of confidence, but these were only in favour of
colleagues and intimate friends who, though not in
the Cabinet, were members of the Administration.
One of these was Cardwell, a man of very consider
able ability, afterwards in high office. He was simply
scared by the audacity of the proposed Budget. He
came to me one day with a face quite pale with alarm,
and told me that he regarded it as combining so many
points of attack from so many quarters, including, of
course, the whole strength of the Irish Members, that
Isuccess seemed tohim
Itold him what feltfrom
             an   fairbssto--luttheatimthpeososniblyilitcyh.ance
             the
of success lay in the magnitude and weight of the

scheme as a whole, and that it would be impossible
to tear off little portions of it here and there without
impairing that magnitude and weight from which its
momentum was derived. This was the feeling which

prevailed.

   Lord Stanmore, in his excellent but too short
memoir of his father, has stated that Lord Aberdeen
had threats of resignation from some of his colleagues
on the question of the Budget, and that the assent of
Ithe Cabinet was largely due to his support.
                                              do

Inot recollect having heard of any such threats at

the time. But have since heard of one case, highly
honourable to the Minister concerned, in which the

428  Gladstone's budget                                         [chap, xix

difficulties of assent were great. That was the case
of Sir Charles Wood, who had been Lord John's
Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had committed
himself more or less, in some speech to a deputation,
to the effect that he would not propose a renewal
of the income-tax without some concession on the

principles of differentiation. At first Wood felt that
he could not be a party to a new Budget in which
this pledge was violated. He did, therefore, for a time
feel that he must resign. But, on reconsideration, he
saw that, as the new proposal contemplated the aboli
tion of the income-tax at a definite and not distant
date, the whole question was thereby put on a new
footing, to say nothing of the tariff reforms which
were part of the plan. Wood therefore wrote a frank
and manly note to Lord Aberdeen, explaining his
change of view, and consenting to stand by his col
leagues on the proposed Budget. Lord Aberdeen
sent him a warm reply of acknowledgment and thanks,
which, under the circumstances, he well deserved. The
result was inevitable. Neither the individual support
of the Prime Minister, nor that of any of us, would
have carried the day had it not been for the over
powering general impression made by the strength and
boldness of the proposals as a whole. There was no
one who was capable, or had the means, of making
any amended Budget, or even of suggesting a sub
stitute for any of its parts. Its new taxation was so
bound up with, and so balanced by, great remissions,
both immediate and prospective, that it was im
iptosisnibldeetfoaril.anyItofwuass  to pick  it to  pieces and  to attack
                                                    that what    was im
                                     clear,  too,

possible for us would be still more impossible for the
House of Commons.
Gladstone had told us in his gentlest and most
modest tones, at the close of his exposition to the
Cabinet, that he was fully conscious of the large draft
he was making on the confidence and on the convic
tions of his colleagues, adding that, if they could not

1853]             mr. Gladstone's speech                429

iatdodpotwnthein  whole  of  his plan, he might be able to cut
                   some  of  its proportions. He intimated at
the same time, in tones which changed to great
solemnity, that there was one thing he could not do,
or be any party to doing, and that was to adopt any
plan for differentiating the income-tax according to
different sources of income. That he regarded as
destroying it as a great instrument of finance for all
future times. This resolve on Gladstone's part
governed the whole situation. Nothing but some
widely-embracing scheme, large in all its propor
tions, and appealing to special interests and to the
public mind in many ways, had the smallest chance
of succeeding against the stormy current which had
set in in favour of what was called concession upon
this subject. To cut down the Budget to smaller
proportions would be to lessen its momentum, and
destroy its only chances of success. Ultimately,
therefore, and very soon, all the members of the
          became willing     tIo   take      the leap
Cabinet    some of them,          know,      thought    together,
although
                                                        it was a

leap into the shambles.

   At last, on the 23rd of April, 1853, the day came
when the Budget was to be announced and explained

in Parliament. The House of Commons was crammed.
The whole country was on tiptoe of expectation ;
and was not disappointed. Gladstone excelled him
self. He spoke for more than four hours, whilst
through a maze of figures he threaded his way with
a pellucid clearness of exposition which not only re
lieved all strain upon the attention, but even made
                                              to the    minItd.wasAnadn
close listening a         positive pleasure  rhetoric.
yet it was in no         sense a speech of
even flow of clear explanation and of the closest and
most skilful reasoning. The breadth of the proposal
as a whole took the House by storm, and when Glad
stone sat down, amid a long pent-up tumult of
applause, all who were present at that great intellec
tual exhibition felt sure that the Budget was safe,

430                  Gladstone's budget                              ii[chap. x

and that the new Government was firmly established
in Iptowwears. in this speech that Gladstone made a long
and flying leap in his ascent to power. Hitherto he
had been only a man of great promise, a brilliant
debater, with a halo round his head of a wide and
even an unusual expectation. He now at once stood
forth as a statesman of magnificent performance,
facing the unreasoning clamours of a misguided public
opinion as no other man would face them, and with a
splendid courage committing his colleagues and him
aselll--f ittowaas,  determined                            But this was            not
                      indeed, less  rethsiasntanhcael.f--  of his triumph.
                                                                                     A
policy of mere resistance would never have succeeded
under the conditions then existing. But his masterly
analysis of the income-tax, his account of the historical
effects it had produced at two great epochs of our
history, his high aspirations for a farther experiment
in tariff reform, the power he showed in handling
various sources of revenue with a view to that reform,

Iall combined        otfoPasralitaismfyenttheanredasoofn thaendpeotopled. azzIlte  the
                                                                                   was
imagination
said, and believe with the strictest truth, that no
such financial speech had been delivered in the House
of Commons since Mr. Pitt's great speech on his first
               of the income-tax    in 1793.
proItpowsaasl  one of those rare                           on which  a really
                                    occasions

fine speech not only decides the fate of a Government,
but enlightens the mind of a people, and determines
for an indefinite time to come the course of natural

legislation. It is true that in all forms of government
in which there is a large democratic element, oratory
is, and must be, a great power. But, to a very large

extent, its effects are as evanescent as its tones. In
assemblies of educated men, more or less definitely
divided into organized parties, mere speeches, however
fine, very seldom turn a single vote. On special sub
jects, indeed, where no party opinions affect the
question, a great speech may carry all before it. A

1853] mr. Gladstone's great speech                           431

celebrated speech by Macaulay on the subject of copy
right is said to have been a case in point.
Gladstone could not turn to any of those legitimate
resources of oratory which lie in appeals to the fancy or
to the feelings. Only for one moment could he come near
to these, in a few sentences in which he showed how
the National Debt was largely held by widows and
orphans and others under trust, whose little dividends,
however small, were at least as certain in their source
as any incomes, and on whom the reformers would
place the higher rate of tax, whilst the great brewers
and other lords of manufacturing industry would be
let off with the lighter rates, because their sources of

income were supposed to be precarious. A great
master of flexible and subtle intonation like Gladstone
did not fail to convey, in his masterly analysis of the
sources of income, both the pity and the reproach with
which such an unrighteous discrimination could be
justly charged. But, beyond this, the whole speech
was as grave and serious in its matter as it was clear
Iin its explanations and conclusive in its reasoning.

And yet have little or no doubt that if his proposals
had been made known clumsily, or even in any abbre
viated form, there would have been a complete failure,
instead of a splendid success. There is an enormous
difference between minds brought suddenly face to
face with startling or unwelcome ideas and the same
minds when they are gradually led along the paths
of fact and of                b--yrewahchicehd               have
been -- perhaps  argument,                      these ideas  great
                 laboriously                     by some
intellectual leader. This is the noblest work of oratory,
and perhaps, alas ! sometimes the lowest also, for there
is no weapon in the hands of men which offers such
temptations to its possessor. And there is none which
has been so terribly abused. There is no sight so
odious to me as that of a man with a gift of oratory
who, instead of using his powers to free the minds of
others from errors and prepossessions, spends them
on increasing prejudices and inflaming the passions of

432              Gladstone's budget                [chap. XII

the people. No pleasure of a political kind has ever
been so great to me as Gladstone's success on this

Igreat occasion. During the time of suspense did all
I could in the Cabinet to promote and secure it. The
exposure of a fallacy has always been to me the
greatest of intellectual delights, and, next to that,
seeing such an exposure effected by others. And,
besides this, the Budget  aIst  a whole appealed to all
my earliest sympathies.         was a sort of combina
tion of Pitt and Peel, resting on the one for the income-
tax, and on the other for a right understanding of its

Ilegitimate use.                   took my share, in
   During the rest of the session
the House of Lords, of speeding the measures of the
Government, and especially the Budget and the India
Bill. Financial debates in the Lords are always
rather half-hearted, because financial measures can
not be altered there. But Lord Derby attacked the

IBudget bitterly, in a speech to which made a fairly
Isuccessful reply. On the India Bill defended our
rejection of delay for another year, and pointed out
that the cry against the existing system as a ' dual
Government ' was in great measure a delusion, inas
much as under any possible substitute the dual element
must remain. Not only must there continue to be a
strong Government in India, but even in England
nobody proposed that the powers of the Crown should
be placed in the hands of a Minister, without the aid
      the check  of a separate Council.
and    would be    very difficult to specify  the  items  in

  It
Gladstone's great Budget of 1853 which most deter
mined its success, both in Parliament and in the
country. That mixture which was conspicuous in it
of Pitt and Peel was an element which could not
            it to the old Whigs.   And  tiamceco--rdtihneglytw--o
Irecommend  did not know this at   the

although
members of the Cabinet who most distinctively repre
sented them, Lansdowne and Palmerston, both inti
mated to Lord Aberdeen that, although they would

1853]    PERMANENCE OF INCOME-TAX      433

acquiesce in the proposal of the Budget, they would
also acquiesce in its defeat, so that they could be no
party to a dissolution on it, against the verdict of the
House of Commons. On the other hand, the financial
policy of Peel had already acquired an established

Ireputation. In my speech in the Lords was able to
remind Lord Derby that no less than £11,000,000 of
taxes had been remitted by Peel, of which almost the
whole had then been very nearly recovered by in
creased consumption and the stimulus given to trade.
This had been done, and it had been done under cover
of the income-tax. The principle, therefore, of con
necting the continuance of that tax with a continuance
of the same system, was a principle which appealed to
the people, as justified by indisputable results. Then
there were some highly popular ingredients. The
abolition of the soap duty pleased the manufacturers.
The very large reduction on the tea duties pleased all who
looked to the interests of the poor. Then the extension of
Pitt's legacy duties to real property pleased the Radicals.
All these things are to be considered in accounting for
the success of a scheme which was courageous even to

I Iaudacity. But am bound to confess that thought
at the time, and still think, that one main element of
rsdeuisacpclleeysnsstihnelgaywweiaintkhetshtth--aetnaiintmecmeolmy,eo-fttahtxeheparBlotusopdgegecethttehrw.ehldicIhtoutwwaaossf
not really possible to found safe fiscal legislation on
calculations of the future for seven years ahead. Not
only the contingencies     eocvfaeunsfoesrtheieagrneordopbionslaicturicyrse--chaainnndgecostmh--e
possibilities of war, but
often as violent as their

mercial and manufacturing industry, render such fore
casts impossible. But Gladstone treated this point
with great dexterity. He indicated his own personal
impression that the income-tax was not well fitted to
be a permanent part of our financial system, moved to
this opinion no doubt by the dangerous agitation
which he was then encountering. But he took care
vol. i.
                                   28

434  Gladstone's budget                          [chap, xix

to indicate also that he only wished to place Parlia
ment in a position enabling it to part with the income-
tax if it should then be so disposed ; and he gave the
figures on which this expectation was founded, on the
supposition that all went well in the meantime, and
that the existing revenue and his new succession duty
were to continue unimpaired. But the great dex
terity of his proposal, so far as it affected public
feeling, was that he embodied his expectation in
external legislation, providing for and specifying the
Isuccessive steps of diminution by which the income-
tax was to expire in 1860.  have little doubt myself
that this definite proposal, giving an apparent validity
to the promise, was one of the great causes of an over
whelming and immediate success. Lord Derby sneered

at it, of course, and so did others. But not one of
them saw, or even professed to see, the particular
danger which was even at that moment beginning to
appear above the Eastern horizon, and which was
destined very soon to involve us in expenditure that
rendered all such peaceful calculations futile.

           CHAPTER XX

                        1854

           OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR

I now come to that period of my life in which the
IhCwliegaaabshv--itnyemotfaantoatdfefirscmestooamcllaebmtegimerooenusuepp--oonoepfvpemmrneeesntswh,iveietwhyhoorauesensrpguoedsnsehtsc.,iibsaiilosIittniessistdheenoanolf
with the lives of thousands of our own countrymen

Iand the dearest interests of millions of other men.
must not allow this memoir of my own life to lapse
into a mere political essay on the origin and the
causes of the Crimean War. There are few subjects
connected with a comparatively recent past on which
more nonsense is now talked, under complete misappre
hension both of the policy pursued and of the steps

Itaken to give that policy effect. But do desire in
this record of my own life to recall and describe some of
the leading personal agencies which are very often
powerful and sometimes determining causes in the
great events of history.

  IWriting as now do at the opening of the last year
Iof the nineteenth century, find myself the only sur
Ivivor of the Cabinet which waged the Crimean War.

In recalling, as can most vividly, all the steps along
Iwhich we ourselves were led, and all the determining

circumstances of some preceding years, find the light
of memory shining with special brilliancy on one fine
day of the early summer of 1844. The Emperor
Nicholas   of Russia had come to visit his sister
and ally,                                          Sovereign
            the Queen of England. In June,         1844, the

           435 28--2

436 OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap, xx

Duke of Devonshire gave, in honour of the Emperor,
a great garden-party at his lovely villa at Chiswick.

The weather was glorious. All the approaches to
the beautiful gardens were festooned with lilac and
laburnum. The magnificent cedars which overshadow
the porch and eastern facade of that Palladian villa
spread their delicate tracery overhead against a sky
of intense blue, flecked with a few creamy and peaceful
clouds. On the other side of the house, the sun was

blazing on the younger cedars, whose matted boughs
of green needles rested on close-shaven lawns, whilst,
in the shadow of a grove of oak and beech, the Emperor
and the Duke were pacing slowly together arm in arm.

IThe two men were nearly of the same height, but
could see that the Emperor was much the handsomer
in figure. The Emperor held himself and stepped as
Isoldiers always do. But my impression of his person

was not complete till saw him nearer, in the house.
Those of us whom the Duke wished to present assembled
in the southern drawing-room, and the Emperor came
Iround with his host. Never before and never since

have felt myself in the presence of such a King of
men. His whole form and aspect were those of
perfect manly beauty. He must have been at least
six foot three or six foot four in height, with shoulders
well thrown back, and a fine military carriage. And
this was crowned by a head of singular beauty, manli

ness, and power. In features it approached very
nearly to the pure Greek ideal, in which the nose and
coonme pcloenteti--nuhoaupspilliyn,e.      The  likeness,
Ithe forehead are in                   in   my  opinion,

however, was not
because it is associated, think, in the sculptures of
antiquity, with a disagreeable vacancy of expression.
The Emperor Nicholas was not in the least like a
Greek god, living in an Olympian serenity, and enjoy
ing ' a sacred everlasting calm.' But he was the type
of man in a world of action, and his whole expression
was that of conscious will, of energy, and of power.
His eyes were splendid, vigilant and watchful, without

1854]  THE EMPEROR NICHOLAS                          437

being at all restless or unsettled. There was, indeed,
no expression of sympathy or benevolence in his face.
Nicholas was the very ideal of a great monarch, of
an autocrat over millions of the human race, full of a
sense of his unique position, and in the habitual
Ifexercise of its immense and insuperable authority.

     there was nothing in his countenance that was
angelic, still less anything that was Divine, there was
at least everything in perfection that is merely human.
He seemed to me a specimen of the highest possible
type of the genus Homo. Lord Aberdeen, in a letter
to Madame de Lieven, written at this time, after
speaking of the commanding presence of the Emperor,
Isaid that there was in the expression of his countenance
an ingredient of sadness.  did not see this. The

predominant expression, which overlaid all others,
was that of a resolute will, which was always fearless,
Iand                                                 heard it

in a                                                 was the
       might be fierce.    His voice, so far as  It
       few words, gave   the same impression.
voice and intonation of a man accustomed to command,
Ito see all other wills bend before his own.
      am particular in the description of the Emperor
Nicholas, because in his personal character  laIyt  the most
determining cause of the Crimean War.               was im
possible to look at that magnificent man without seeing

and feeling that he was Russia. In speaking of other
countries at that time, one might feel that one was
speaking of well-known Ministers, whose opinions and
policy were sure to be followed. Austria was governed
by Metternich, France might be governed by Thiers
or by Guizot, or by some heterogeneous republican
Cabinet. But Russia was the Emperor Nicholas. That
Empire is, of course, too vast for any human being to
hold all its threads in his single hand. Doubtless, too,
there were national and dynastic traditions, which

were more or less insuperable even to such a man as
Nicholas. But in all the practical decisions of con
temporary life, and especially in the relations of Russia
with the other Powers of Europe, the personal will of

438         OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR                                                                        [chap, xx

that Sovereign was to be reckoned with as paramount
and supreme. Nobody who was ever in his presence
could fail to see that he was a man who might be in
fluenced by argument and persuasion, but who would
not only never yield to menace, but would be hardened
by it into more defiant determination.
I IdyeaIaynrsaranegdcoa--tlhlienghf,aevsaetsivoeftescncaenansemkeaodtstmChyvissivewildficlwky,h--ettnhhoaewtr  beautiful
an attitude of reserve in                                                                                      fifty-four
present towards the great                                                                                      there was

                           the thoughts of                   uasn--y                                            of those
                           potentate before                                                                    whether,
stealing into our thoughts of honour and of welcome,
there   wmasana--nydavnogiceerotuhsatto                 '  Here                                                 is a  dan
gerous                                   whispered          the                                                world   and
                                          the peace  :

                                                     of
to the independence of Europe ; let us do all we can to
conciliate him.' But my answer is emphatically in
the negative. Very different associations with the
Sovereign of Russia were at that time deeply embedded
in the national memory, and in 1844 had not yet had
time to be much enfeebled. Not only political society,
but the army and the people, were all of a generation
who had been accustomed to think of Russia as the
stoutest of all our allies in our great contest against
the intolerable tyranny of Napoleon. There was prob
ably not a man or a woman present who recollected,
o--r   who        knew,   ytheearsfacbteftohrea--t uPpiottn                                                    occasion
      more  even   fifty                                     one                                               lost his
            than                                             had
head for a moment, and had called on Parliament to
arm him for resistance to the Empress Catherine,
because she had taken Taganrog from the Turks and

meant to keep it. But if anyone had remembered
it, they might have remembered, too, that Fox made
the remarkable declaration that it was an entire
novelty to him to hear of Russia being considered a
dread to Europe, and Burke declared that it would be
a shameful policy to support the Turks. Parliament
had been obsequious, but the country had not re
sponded, and Pitt, recovering from his momentary
aberration, had allowed the matter to drop, the whole

1854] OUR PAST RELATIONS WITH RUSSIA 439

incident being now only memorable as giving a date
for the first symptom of those changes of national
feeling which finally led up to the Crimean War.
Pitt's error was completely obliterated, not only by
the passive resistance he met with, but by his own
complete change of front under the aggressions of
revolutionary France. Seven years later he was
moving for the grant of subsidies to Russia to
help her armaments, and was impressing on the House
of Commons the high character of the uncle of our
guest at Chiswick, the Emperor Alexander. And this
had continued to be our relation with Russia till the
final overthrow of our great enemy in 1815. Alexander
was the greatest of the allied Sovereigns of the Con
tinent, whom we had so long helped with money and

with counsel and with arms. In 1827 he had co
operated with us in establishing the independence of

Greece. In 1844 only seventeen years had elapsed
since our common triumph, and during those years all
that had  inhapopuernefrdienindsEhuipropweithhadRuhsaspiap.eneIdt  without
a break                                                             is true
that in 1828-1829 a war broke out between Russia
and Turkey, in which Russia showed such irresistible
superiority of strength over Turkey that her armies
crossed the Danube and the Balkans, and she dictated
her own terms of peace under the very walls of Con
stantinople. This did alarm us. What if Russia should
keep what she had got ? The Duke of Wellington was
on the point of interfering, when Russia made peace
on terms which, however dangerous for the future, did
not occasion any immediate     alarm.  RuSsosiaa.fterItthiiss
returned to our old relations   with                                we
                                                                   not
wonderful, therefore, if all of us who met the Emperor
at that beautiful fete at Chiswick in 1844, met him
heartily, with all honour, not only for his high per
sonal character, but  as the embodiment   aolfliaancPeo--weanr
with which we had     long been in close
alliance fruitful of good to Europe and to the liberties

of the world.

440              OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap. XX

And on his side not less was there everything to
give him confidence in the sincerity of our reception.
He found the Foreign Office in the hands of Lord
Aberdeen, the valued friend of his uncle, as well as
of the Austrian Emperor, during the advance of the
allied Sovereigns upon Paris in 1814. He knew he
could place absolute reliance on Lord Aberdeen's
Istpiirsitnootf  wisdom and justice      towards other nations.
                 surprising, therefore,  that at a moment when
there was a complete lull in any excitement or cause
of anxiety in foreign affairs, the Emperor Nicholas
should have opened his mind to our Ministers on the
prospects of peace, as connected with the odious con
dition of the East of Europe.
More than eight eventful years had passed since the
Chiswick festivities to the Emperor Nicholas when
the Aberdeen Government was formed. But those
years had brought no change in the spirit of our dream
towards that Sovereign. Foreign affairs had been com

paratively quiet. At home the Irish famine in 1846-
1847, and the great political changes to which it led,
had engrossed all our attention. On the Continent
the widespread outburst of revolutionary violence in
1848 had given every Cabinet in Europe more than
enough to do, without meddling with its neighbours.

  In the retrospect of the past, apart altogether from
the hospitalities of 1844, there was nothing to be seen
as regarded Russia but a friendly alliance, leading on
two memorable occasions to active co-operation. The
guns of Navarino which destroyed the Turkish fleet
in 1827 were the guns of a united British and Russian
squadron. The armed intervention which in 1840
stopped the advance of the Egyptian Pasha in Syria
owed all its decisiveness to the same alliance, whilst
the Protocol of 1841, which recorded the transaction
and explained its principle, gave permanent expression
to a new and united policy regarding the affairs of the
East of Europe. The essence of that principle was
this : that the fate of the Turkish Empire was a matter

1854]    INTEGRITY OF THE TURKISH EMPIRE  441

of European concern, and that all the Powers were to
acknowledge it to be the subject of mutual consultation

and of collective action. The diplomatic form in
which this principle was expressed was the unfortu
nate but the still surviving phrase of the ' integrity
and independence of the Turkish Empire.' No form
of words could have been chosen more grotesquely
inconsistent with the notorious facts of the case out
of which the treaty sprang. Neither the independence
nor the integrity of Turkey had been respected by the
Powers which had intervened to secure the success
of the Greek revolt in 1829. Neither had the fresh
intervention of the same Powers in the contest between
the Sultan and the Pasha of Egypt in 1840 been such
as would have been possible in the case of a really
independent empire. But, although the diplomatic
phrase chosen in the Protocol of 1841 was a bad one, at

least everybody knew what it meant. It meant that
Turkey was so weak that her integrity and her inde
pendence could exist, even nominally, only on con
dition of the European Powers agreeing to abstain
from separate attacks, and of their acknowledging
among themselves that this should be held a common
and a binding obligation.

   All parties in this country had approved of this
arrangement. Our intervention in Egypt and Syria
was indeed the work of Lord Palmerston, and con
stituted the greatest triumph of his career at the
Foreign Office. But it was not the triumph of any
Idomestic party. Lord Aberdeen  heartily approved of
                                on the right course,'
it. ' think Lord Palmerston is
Iwrote Lord Aberdeen to Madame de Lieven in June,

1840, ' and hope he will persevere in it.' So that,
when these two reputed antagonists came together
most unexpectedly in the same Cabinet in 1853, the
basis of our policy in any revival of the Eastern
Question rested on maxims of policy on which all the
members of that Cabinet had been long thoroughly

agreed.

442 OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap, ix

Nor was this all. The Emperor Nicholas, after his
visit to us in 1844, embodied in a Memorandum those
views on the relations of all of us to Turkey which
he had expressed in conversation with our leading
Ministers during that visit. The Memorandum con
tained the following leading propositions : ' That the
maintenance of Turkey in its existing territory and
degree of independence is a great object of European
policy. That, in order to preserve that maintenance,
the Powers of Europe should abstain from making on
the Porte demands conceived in a selfish interest, or
from assuming towards it an attitude of exclusive
dictation. That, in the event of the Porte giving to
any one of the Powers just cause of complaint, that
Power should be aided by the rest in its endeavours to
have that cause removed. That all the Powers should
urge on the Porte the duty of conciliating its Christian
subjects, and should use all their influence, on the
other hand, to keep those subjects to their allegiance.
That, in the event of any unforeseen calamity befalling
the Turkish Empire, Russia and England should agree
together as to the course that should be pursued.'
Nothing could be more reasonable, nothing more
friendly, and even confidential, towards us than this
declaration  oIftthweasvieiwn scaonmdpilnetteentaiocncosrdoafntchee  Emperor
of Russia.                                                           with the
historical transactions of 1827 and of 1840, and with

Itthe principles laid down in the Protocol of 1841.
remained in the Foreign Office, and was handed on

from 1844 by each Minister to his successor. It had
passed through the hands of Lord Aberdeen, of Lord
Palmerston, of Lord Granville, and of Lord Malmesbury,
whilst, in our new Cabinet, it remained in the custody,
first of Lord John Russell and then of Lord Clarendon.

It may be said with certainty that if the Emperor
Nicholas had abided by the assurances of this Memo
randum, the Crimean War would never have arisen,
and, so long as we had no reason to believe that he

contemplated a different course of policy, we had every

1854]        FEENCH CLAIMS                             443

right to entertain that unsuspecting confidence in
European peace which was undoubtedly the attitude
of all  our minds during the  earlier months of 1853.
        is only fair to the   Emperor Nicholas to      re
  It
member that he was tempted or driven out of his
promised course by a provocation which came from
France. More than two years before this date Lord
Aberdeen had said in a letter to Madame de Lieven :
' There can be no great danger of war in Europe unless
it should come from France,' and France was the
perpetual centre of disturbance. Lord Aberdeen had
felt much her caprice, her restlessness, and her tricki-
ness. She had opposed the other Powers in their
policy for the pacification of the Levant, and one
consequence of this was that the Treaty of 1840 was
concluded with France standing sulkily aside. She,
therefore, had given no consent to the mutual promise
of the other Powers that they would not make separate
and self-seeking demands on Turkey.

  In 1850, more than two years before the Aberdeen
Cabinet came into office, when Palmerston was still
at the Foreign Office, the French Minister at the Porte
had begun a quarrel about a French claim to protect
the Latin monks at Jerusalem in certain privileges over
the Holy Places. These privileges came into compe
tition and collision with the like privileges enjoyed
under the territorial protectorate of Russia by the
monks of the Greek Church. When the Aberdeen
Cabinet first met, we found this quarrel still growling
and unsettled. But we had not the slightest difficulty
in knowing how to deal with it. Our duty under the
understanding of 1840 and of the Emperor's Memo
randum and    Letters                  the    duty of a
peacemaker.              was simply  side   with neither
             It was    our duty to
of the contending Governments, but to urge on the
Porte to make every possible concession to both of
them in the interests of peace. Our Minister at the
Porte had long been Sir Stratford Canning, afterwards
Lord Stratford de Redcliffe, a man of great ability, and

444  OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap. XI

one who had acquired over the Porte an influence due
to his powerful character and to his hearty adoption
of the doctrine laid down in the Protocol of 1841, that
the preservation of Turkey was of great importance
to the peace of Europe. He was at home on leave
when we began our work, and he was sent out in
the end of February, 1853, with instructions in strict
conformity with the engagements to which England
had been a party. The Emperor Nicholas at the
same moment sent a special Envoy to the same
destination, and rumours soon reached our ears that
this Envoy, Prince Menschikoff, was instructed to
make demands upon the Porte which were entirely
new, had nothing to do with the Holy Places, were
conceived in a selfish interest, and were precisely such
as the signatories to the Protocol of 1841 had promised
not to make. Clarendon, who, according to arrange
ment, had now succeeded Lord John Russell at the
Foreign Office, at once directed our Minister at St.
Petersburg to ask for an explanation. This was given
in the form of an absolute denial, and during the whole
of March and a great part of April we continued to
receive from the Emperor the most explicit assurances
that the settlement of the question about the Holy
Places was all he wanted, and that Russia would ask

forItnowthaisngnomt orteil.l the 26th of April, 1853, that we

received a despatch from Lord Stratford which at
last left no doubt that Russia was deliberately deceiving
us, and that Menschikoff, in the teeth of all assurances,
had some secret demands to make on the Porte in the
exclusive interests of his own Government. Lord
Stratford had at once turned this discovery to useful
account, by impressing on the French Minister the great
importance of settling the dispute about the Holy
Places, so that England, when that question was out
of the way, might join with France in a united resist
ance to any Russian demand which might seem to
place in her hands the fate of Turkey. The French

1854] ENTERING THE RAPIDS 445

Minister saw the importance of this advice, and in a
short time the dispute about the Holy Places was
settled to the satisfaction of both the French and
Russian Embassies. This had been accomplished
about the 25th of April, and it had the important
effect of at once leaving us disembarrassed from the
local quarrel, and free to come to an understanding
with France on the far larger question which so
unexpectedly was now growing beneath our feet.
With these transactions, however little we knew it
at the time, we entered on the rapids, and the roar of
the distant cataract became slowly more and more
audible to the ear. Hitherto we had not dreamed of
Ithe possibility of war. This, therefore, is a moment

in my life on which wish to focus the clearest lights of
memory, and to give a living picture of the attitude
of mind in which those events and transactions
fouIntdisust.he system in all Cabinets to which I have
belonged that the Secretary for Foreign Affairs is in
close personal relations with the Prime Minister, and
that a great deal of the Foreign Office business is settled
between them, without its being referred to the Cabinet

at all. In our case, two men of such authority as Lord
Aberdeen and Lord John Russell                specially fitted
to deal with the current business,  awndereI  do not recollect
that the wretched squabble between the French and
Russian Embassies at Constantinople was
the subject of Cabinet discussion at all.     Ietveisr  made
                                                        to be
remembered that we none of us felt securely seated in
office till we knew the fate of Gladstone's Budget.
And this we did not know till after his great speech
had been delivered on the 17th of April, 1853, so that
only ten days elapsed between that memorable success
and our learning with certainty that the special Envoy
of Nicholas was making demands on Turkey which
would give to Russia some special and exclusive power
I Iover the Ottoman Porte.
      feel can recall with absolute fidelity the pre

xi446 OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap,

conceptions and the temper of mind with which we
all contemplated this new prospect. There was not a
single man of us in the Cabinet who had any feeling
of enmity to Russia, or any tinge of that exaggerated
fear of her which animated the whole school of Anglo-
Indians. Palmerston and Lord John Russell and
Aberdeen had all acted in alliance with Russia within
recent years, and the presence of her fleets in the
Mediterranean had been hailed as a help, not feared as

a danger. On the other hand, there was not one of
us, unless it was Palmerston, who had any sympathy
I Iwith theuTsu--rks

Most of
younger
               either as       a people  or as a Government.
               certainly       for one,  and think all the
members of the Cabinet
                                         -- believed with the
E--mthpeer'oSricNkicMhaolnas'  otfhEautroTpuerk--eyanwdatshaa tdtehceasyoinleg   Empire
                                                                                question
of European interest was, under what conditions it

Ishould be guided to its inevitable fate. have excepted
IPalmerston, not because ever heard him say a word
Ion this purely speculative question, but because have
since seen a letter from him to Lytton Bulwer, which
expresses the strongest incredulity as to the weakness
of Turkey. But Palmerston was nothing of a specu
lative politician. His habit of mind did not lead him
to dwell upon, hardly even to glance at, those deeper-
seated moral causes which affect the strength and
prepare the fall of States. His active and vigorous
mind was always concerning itself with the immediate
motives and conduct of men, and he troubled himself
very little with anything beyond. In all his speeches
I only recollect one passage which touched a deeper
Ichord, and    remember it because       of the great surprise
Iwith which                              in some speech on
                 read it. It was
Continental politics, in which he spoke of the diffi
culties which  had pursued the           Powers concerned in
the partition  of Poland. These          he finely called ' that
sad inheritance of triumphant wrong.' Of course, the
Isame high perception of moral causes in the fate of

nations might well have led him, as it did lead, think,

1854]         RUSSIA AND TURKEY                    447

all his younger colleagues, to see the inevitable doom
of the dominion set up, on the overthrow of the Greek
Empire, by the Ottoman Turks.
   Never in the history of Europe has there been such
an ' inheritance of triumphant wrong ' as that. For

I Imyself not only hated the Turkish Empire, but
loathed the politics of Christians, which led them to
treat with levity and even with favour a Government
so odious in every aspect, except the animal courage
of its soldiers. But all this was entirely outside the
question with which, as a Cabinet, we had to deal.
There was not a shadow of a difference among us as to
the course which it was our duty to pursue. That
duty was to adhere to the principles laid down in the
Treaty of 1840, which had been negotiated by Palmer-
ston, and under his inducement had received the
adhesion of the whole of Europe except France. We
did not determine to adhere to these principles our
selves, and to enforce them on others, merely because
we had once agreed to them eleven years before, but
because the principles in themselves were just and
right, and the only principles compatible with peace.
The Protocol of 1841 was as essential for permanent use
as the Treaty of 1840   had been for meeting
and formidable crisis  in Syria and Egypt.    Ifa  sudden
                                                   each of
the Powers was free to deal with Turkey as it pleased,
on any complaint that might arise, the interests of all
of them would be in perpetual danger.
Then there was another general consideration in
which we were all agreed-- a consideration so obviously
true that it                              independently of
any process   weighed upon  us  heavily,
              of argument.      was this  : that, if isolated
                            It
action against Turkey, with a view to the acquisition
of special rights and powers, was to be deprecated and
resisted on the part of any one of the European Powers,
it was most of all to be dreaded on the part of Russia.
By geographical position, by hereditary ambitions,
by recent wars and extraordinary means and oppor
tunities of access, Russia was the natural enemy of

448 OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap, xx

Turkey. It was Russia alone that was always over
hanging the  flanks of  Turkey with her enormous mass
and weight.             Russia that was in the thoughts
              It was
of Europe when, at our invitation, the Powers had
entered into a sort of self-denying covenant against indi

Ifvidual ambitions regarding the Eastern Question.

Russia were now to be allowed, without resistance, to
do the very thing we had all promised not to do, all that
had been gained by the Protocol of 1841 in the interests
Iof peace would be lost for ever.
   Of course, need hardly say that behind all this, or,
rather, underlying    it, there was in            otphieniomnin--dthoaf tallthoef
us one unspoken        but indelible
absorption by Russia of Turkey in Europe, and the
seating of the Russian Emperor on the throne of
Constantinople, would give to Russia an overbearing
weight in Europe, dangerous to all the other Powers
and to the liberties  soufptphoertw. orlIdt.      This opinion needs
no argument in its                            is  enough to look at
the map of Europe. Already the European territories
of Russia outflank those of every other Power. They
are practically inaccessible to attack, as Napoleon
found to his cost. They contain innumerable hordes of
fighting men. The one thing they want is a good
frontage to the south. There is one such frontage,
and only one in the world, which would repeat in the
south that singular combination in the north of a
position of great advantage for attack with unassail-
ability in defence.
There is no feature in the physical geography of our
globe so peculiar in its political significance as that
which consists in the two channels of the Bosphorus
and the Dardanelles, with the Sea of Marmora between
them. Nowhere else in the world is there a vast inland
sea, more than 700 miles broad, that washes the shores
of two separate quarters of the world, and yet opens
with a mouth as narrow as the neck of a bottle, so that
the Power possessing it must have irresistible facilities
of attack from a position altogether impregnable in

1854]     THE EASTERN QUESTION IN 1853         449

Ifdefence.  this imperial dominion were to be added
to what Russia already has, the Black Sea would be a
Russian lake, the Danube would be a Russian river,
and some of the richest provinces of Eastern Europe
and of Western Asia would give to Russia inexhaustible
resources in men, in money, and in ships. With these,
together with a unique position of geographical ad
vantage, she would possess inordinate power over the
rest of Europe.
The Eastern Question, as it presented itself to us
in May,   I1853, was inseparably bound     up with this
                                           can speak at
estimate  of the interests at stake.
least with certainty of my own convictions, and with
hardly less certainty of the convictions of all my
colleagues. Not that we discussed it. Men do not
discuss opinions which are considered axiomatic. But
it underlay every motive to action and every thought
of policy. Moreover, the absorption of Turkey by
Russia was not regarded by us at this time as so
difficult as to be at all necessarily a very remote
contingency. Russia had very recently advanced to
Adrianople, and a later experience has shown us how
surely she can always repeat the process.
There was still another correlative assumption in
our minds, and that was this : that Russia might pro
ceed by sap and mine, and not by open conquest. By

treaties, or diplomatic ' notes,' equivalent to treaties,
giving to Russia special and exclusive rights of pro
tectorate over the Christian subjects of the Porte, the
Turkish Empire might be so politically mortgaged to
Russia, that a foreclosure could be put in force at any
convenient opportunity. We considered it our duty
so to act and provide as to checkmate this method of
Ideglutition as well as any other.

  In recent years have seen a great many foolish
things said and written, condemnatory of the Crimean
War, but they have always been conceived in terms
which showed complete    iIgtnoisraqnucieteotfrutheeththaetnweexicsotiunlgd
conditions of the case.
vol. i.
                                           29

450             OUTBREAK OP THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap, xx

have avoided the Crimean War. We might have
intimated to the other Powers of Europe, whom we had
rallied round us a few years before, to defend the

Turkish Empire against France and Mahomet Ali, and
w18h4o1m--wwee  had persuaded to join   us in the Protocol of
                might have intimated     to all these Powers
that we had changed our minds, that we could not
venture to run the risk of encountering the enmity of
Russia, as we had encountered the enmity of France.
Nothing but this was needed to avert, at least for the
moment, the danger of war. Nothing but this ! But
this was an impossibility, except to cowards. And
even if we ourselves could have endured the shame,
Britain would have made short work of Ministers
who could so defame her in the world.
    The  course we took was the
It       to enlist France in the        only possible alternative.
    was  of the Treaty of 1840.         pIotlicwyasantdo  in the engage
                                                          encourage her
ments
to form a close alliance with ourselves, and with the
Continental Powers, in resisting any demand on the
part of Russia tending to establish in her hands special
rights over the  asnudbjeecfftescto--f  Turkey,   which   could have
but one object                          that of  making   Russia the
arbiter of the fate of the Ottoman Empire. To attain
this end we directed all the resources of our diplomacy.
Lord Stratford was sent to Constantinople, taking
Paris and Vienna on his way. At each capital he was
to point out the danger to Europe involved in the
apparent policy of Russia, and the necessity of opposing
it with a united front, and all our Embassies were set
on the same track.
    From the end of April, 1853, foreign affairs
were no longer conducted, as in quiet times, by
two Ministers almost alone, with only an occa
sional reference to the Cabinet. The sense of immi
nence in the dangers before us was too great for
that. At every Cabinet meeting the time was now
mainly taken up by hearing all the important
despatches read to us. There is in all such docu

1854]             A CRITICAL SITUATION             451

ments a great amount of repetition, and the phrases
of diplomacy are to a large extent so artificial and
conventional, that the work did sometimes seem
wearisome beyond endurance. But we had two great
alleviations. The first was the constant recollection
that, on the apparently most trivial points in dis
cussion before us, the issues of peace or of a bloody
war depended. The second source of relief was the
liveliness and humour which characterized the reading

of our Foreign Secretary, Lord Clarendon. His running
comments were inimitable. His readings of the char
acter of each diplomatist were often as good as a play,
and were a real help in enabling us to judge how far
we could trust each separate estimate of the situation
at the            Courts.
   For  separate    months  -- from   April 30th,  It185o3n--ly
        ten long
this anxious and weary work          continued.
ended when at last, on the 27th February, 1854,
we issued a summons to Russia to evacuate the
principalities which she had violently and illegally
occupied since the first days of June, 1853. We
knew, of course, that the summons would be refused
by the Emperor Nicholas, and that our demand was
war. The declaration of war followed, as a matter
of course, in the end of March, 1854.

  It is a satisfaction to me to remember that every
single step tending to make war more inevitable was
taken in advance by Russia, and that we only followed
with slowness and reluctance. The first insolent de
mand of special rights of interference, in contempt of
reiterated assurances ; the persistence in this demand
after our objections were known ; the threat to break

off diplomatic relations with the Porte if it were not
conceded ; the withdrawal of her Ambassador in pur
suance of that threat ; her next threat that she would
send her armies into the principalities, which were
Turkish territories ; her actual advance, which was an
act of war ; her destruction of the Turkish fleet in the
Bay of Sinope ; her final declaration that she would

                                        29--2

452 OUTBREAK OF THE CRIMEAN WAR [chap, ix
suffer no interference on the part of Europe in her
negotiations with Turkey -- all these steps were taken
in succession by Russia in defiance of all that we were
contending for, and all of them were taken without
our making them a casus belli, until at last, no hope
remaining of any diplomatic solution of the contest,
we accepted with regret the inevitable alternative, and
declared war in March, 1854.

                           CHAPTER XXI

                                          1854

                           THE CRIMEAN WAR

IAs am not writing a history, but a biography, I
may here confess that there were moments in those ten
mwhoincthhsI  of    difficult and precarious negotiations in
              felt  the heavy strain of responsibility so great
as to occasion not only anxiety, but distress. A great
part of the time was taken up with endeavours to find
some phrase or form of words in which Turkey could
give a promise to Russia which would be safe, and
incapable of being turned to any dangerous use. For
example, the insertion of the word ' spiritual,' as
applying to the Christian privileges which Turkey
was to guarantee, was much insisted on. This was
an invention of Lord Stratford, in the interests of peace.
But my inborn tendency to verbal analysis led me
ga rseeactulylartoprqiuvielestgieon--itpsrovpaelrutey., foWr aesxaitmnpolet--evgiudaernatntteheadt
to a spiritual body, becomes in a very practical sense a
spiritual privilege ? And would it be possible to fend
Ifoff the pressures of Russian ambition by such frail
verbal barriers as these ?       not, was it worth while
to make the tremendous issues of peace and war
depend on trifling changes in phraseology of this kind ?
Such doubts came over me with painful force at
Itimes, and                almost wished sometimes to be out
Iof the affair. But was always brought back to a
bperopbeorrnsee--nsteheof  the spirit in which such  burdens must
                           spirit, namely, of doing  the best that

                            453

454             THE CRIMEAN WAR                      [chap, xxi

seems possible in each contingency as it actually
arises. Where these contingencies depend on such

complicated elements as the wills and passions of
proud European autocrats and of cunning Asiatic
Sultans, it is not easy to forecast with any confidence
the effect of any particular step. Some of those steps,
Ion which there was much difference of opinion among
my colleagues,  considered immaterial. Such, for
                                                     it  Iwf otuhlids
example, was the question at what moment
be well to send our fleets to the Dardanelles.
I Iwere done as a threat, knew it would be useless.
had not scanned in vain the haughty and determined
Icountenance which    had seen in 1844 under the
Icedars of Chiswick.  was certain that Nicholas would

never be moved to anything except obstinacy and
              a policy of threats.
angIter   by  in Palmerston's nature  to  rely  too  much  on
         was
bullying. But the flabby old trickster on the throne
of France, whom he had cowed successfully in 1840,
was a very different man from the proud Emperor
with whom we had now to deal. If, on the other
hand, our movement of the fleet were to be directed

to the practical and needful purpose of securing

Turkey against any sudden naval attack from the Black
Sea, it would be time enough when we knew that such
a danger was even possible. And so likewise with
the question which at one moment threatened to arise,
whether we should abandon the cause of Turkey
unless she accepted as her promise to Russia an in
Igenious compound of words which was concocted at
Vienna.       felt that such a course would be so absurd
and inconsistent as to be practically impossible. The
very essence of our whole contention was, that the
defeat of Turkey in her resistance to the Russian
demand would be the defeat of Europe and of our
selves. To abandon her to her fate would be to

abandon our own position ; and although such an idea
might arise out of irritation, because Turkey would not
accept some jargon on which we had bestowed much

1854]        THE FEELING OF THE CABINET                       455

trouble, it was not an idea which could possibly be

seriously entertained.
So little did all those disputed points affect my
mind that, although they occupied in some form or
another almost the whole of the ten months of which

I am now speaking, they have left no impression on

I ImPthayelmemvrasetrmoionou,rsy.LobridogcrJaoanphhnoienRslyusosrfeelcl,malylantdohledLmeorrdwchAoebllneeardgeueersnea----d
which have since been published. The public im
pression which has arisen of a deeply divided Cabinet
does not consist with my memory at all. Many of
the disputes spent themselves in personal letters, which
were never brought before the Cabinet at all, and the
comparatively few which required to be settled
by the Cabinet were decided by the most calm and
amicable discussion, it being evident in every case
what   the general sense   was. Not only was there
never  an actual division  taken -- for this is very rare
Iin Cabinets -- but there was not even one single heated
discussion.  used to notice in Lord John's face how
impressionable he was, and how open to the full con
sideration of any weighty objections. Extremely irrit
able in his letters, he was always calm and dignified
in the Cabinet, sometimes, however, with an evident ·
air of self-suppression.
   As to Palmerston, he was singularly silent, and when
he did discuss, it was always frankly, always with
perfect temper, and always acquiescing without any
show of irritation in the general sense of the Cabinet.
There were   two causes   --acfcirosutn, titnhgatfoorn  this  conduct on
the part of  Palmerston                                 the   whole, and
in the general principles of our policy, founded as it
was on his own Treaty of 1840, he agreed. The other
cause was his own personal position amongst us. He
had joined us not without hesitation, and in doing
so he made a great sacrifice of personal feeling, seeing
that the Foreign Office, in which he had won all his
laurels, was , deliberately withheld from him, as one

456          THE CRIMEAN WAR                               fCHAP. XXI

who could not be trusted with it. Having accepted
this position, it would be inconsistent with his generous
surrender of personal claims if he even seemed to push
himself forward in a way to embarrass Clarendon, to
whom that great office had been confided. When
Palmerston felt strongly on any step which he thought
ought to be taken, he generally explained it fully to
Aberdeen in a letter, and gave notice that he would
raise the question in the next Cabinet. This was a
straightforward method, and an excellent one for
securing an adequate discussion. Aberdeen had time

Ito consider it himself, and to consult the colleagues

on whom he most relied. In one case have found
all the details in his private correspondence, and
it well illustrates how our conduct was decided. When
Turkey declared war against our advice in the autumn,
Palmerston   thheorugshutppowrte--omuegahsturesto    take  auxiliary
measures in                                        which   would be

acts of war against Russia, although war was not to be

actually declared. He wrote to the Prime Minister that
he would so move in a Cabinet which was to be held
on October 7th. Aberdeen, in his description of what
occurred, says : ' Palmerston urged his proposal per
severingly, but not disagreeably.' This exactly agrees
with my recollection of all our discussions. So does
Aberdeen's description of the parts we all severally
took.

   Aberdeen was always against any step which would

render war inevitable. So was I. He wished to keep
our freedom as long as possible. So did I. Clarendon
made a modified proposal, which would have sus
pended all hostile actions until Russia actually took the
offensive in the Black Sea. This modified proposal
became the resolution of the Cabinet ; and Aberdeen
mentions, as having strongly supported what he con
sidered the cause of peace, the names of Gladstone,
Charles Wood, Argyll, Sidney Herbert, Granville, and,
though less strongly, Newcastle. Lansdowne and             JIothsno
Russell, though warlike, were subdued in tone.

1854]   PEACE OR WAR?                                          457

Ihappens, by mere accident, that have preserved a
Ifew words which wrote on a slip of paper in the
ICabinet and handed to Aberdeen, next whom was
(as usual) sitting. They were words pointing to a
compromise on Palmerston's proposal. 1 1 suppose
we should all agree, after what has happened, that our
fleets could not see a descent of the Russian fleet on
Varna, or any point of that coast, if it were actually
to make such an attempt. The instructions sent long
Ifago to Stratford seem to me to cover such a case as
this.   so, there could be no objection to point more

specifically to such a case in new instructions to the
fleet. This involves possible defensive operations in
the Black Sea. But this seems to be all that is implied
in Palmerston's proposed instruction. At least, such
an instruction would go far to meet his view, and would
yet be clearly part of what we are already in for !'
IWhether this argument had any effect on Aberdeen

or not, do not know. But he knew my wish to
support him as far as possible, and the conclusion to
which he yielded was in the sense of the argument so

urged.                                                         showing --what
waTs hitshecasfeacits--raththaetr
                                    a  typical one as           Cabinet, when
                                       the Aberdeen
                                   in
divisions of opinion arose, those divisions never ran
along the lines of our old party differences. Both
sides on every question were miscellaneous in compo

sition, as regards these old antagonisms. In this case

the more peaceable section had a majority of Peelites.
But Charles Wood and Granville were typical old
Whigs, and had'been high officials in the Whig Govern
ment, whilst, even among the Whigs, there was a
perceptible difference of spirit between Palmerston

and his two old colleagues, Lord John and Lord
Lansdowne. Clarendon was a Whig, and his was the
proposal which met the                                         of the Cabinet
most completely, and was               gaednoepratleds.ensIet  effectually pro
vided for the defence of the Turks against any sudden
coup de main by Russia, whilst it left us still free to

458  THE CRIMEAN WAR                       [chap, m

try by negotiation to settle the question without war,
bcfouerfsIosriPetohanliomsnukearrstseitttlohvnoeis.snltjyiomIinreiigtnhhIgotuciogntnohcttheseiavhyeifmrdathya.aemtveiinrnyenagtllrlyeathtsetsrreeasipgdehicstt
forward, quite honest, outspoken, and with an excellent
temper. His well-known character in dealing with
foreign affairs made it quite certain that he would
always be for the most defiant measures, and that he
would trust largely to the influence of fear on foreign

Sovereigns and Cabinets. But if personal character
determines very often the advice of such men as Palmer
ston, personal character determines not less absolutely
the effects of that advice on such men as Nicholas.
The French had already been trying the game of
threats with Russia. They had moved up the fleet
from Marseilles and Toulon to the Bay of Salamis, with
no other effect than to stiffen the back of Nicholas,
Iand to endanger the then impending settlement of the
dispute about the Holy Places.             was, therefore,
adverse to Palmerston's proposal to commit our
selves to actual war with Russia, at a date which would
fall to be determined, not by ourselves, but by the
Turks, acting against our advice. On the other hand,
Clarendon's proposal would put our fleet to that
use for which it was competent, that use, too,
which expressed quite as well the policy on which
we were all agreed. That policy was to defend Turkey
against any assault likely to end in bringing Russia to
Constantinople. Aberdeen told Palmerston, in the
course of this discussion, that he entirely agreed in that
poIlitcyw, iallndbewosueledn  be ready to  go to war to enforce  it.
                               from this   account that much
                                                                 has

been said and believed about the Aberdeen Cabinet
and the causes of the Crimean War which is absolutely
untrue. Spencer Walpole's story about it is almost
pure fiction. He represents us as a divided Cabinet,
not in the sense of a Cabinet which merely contained
men of various tendencies of mind, but as a Cabinet

1854] PUBLIC EXCITEMENT 459

divided between   twpoolicsieetsp--arotniees,ofwhthoewseerepoilnicifeasvobuerinogf
two antagonistic
that of the Whigs, headed by Lord John Russell and
Lord Palmerston, who were for war, and the other by
Aberdeen and his friends, who were for peace. There
is no shadow of truth in this representation of the

facts. Palmerston and John Russell were very far from
being close allies. Sometimes their views coincided,

but as often they disagreed, and it was evident from
Palmerston's manner that old scores had been by no

Imeans forgotten.
       do not dwell at all upon the fact that behind
our wills was at last the will of almost the whole
British people, insisting on our not fluctuating in our
tdheeteTrmurinkaisthionEmtpoirere. sistI  the aggression of  Russia on
                                          do not dwell upon
                                                             it because
our line had been taken in the month of February,
when Stratford was told to look to the Treaty of 1840
as the guide of our policy, and when as yet the British
public knew little or nothing of the danger that was
appearing in the East. Not till the current of events
which was carrying    us all with         eitddhieasd--ctohmamt eisncteodsatyo,
run in rapid streams  and boiling
not until our determination had met the counter-

determination of the Emperor, and he had resorted
to acts of violence -- did the contest begin to attract, and
rapidly to engross, the attention of the British people.
Then indeed it did engross them, to a degree and
with a passionate violence of feeling for which it is not
easy to account. There could not have been more
agitation in Rome when Caesar passed the Rubicon,
than in England when the armies of Nicholas crossed

the Pruth. It amounted to a frenzy, and seemed to
seize all classes, all ranks, and all parties. Mad suspi
cions of everybody who was supposed to be in favour
of peace were among the dangerous symptoms of the
time. Among the uneducated and ignorant, these
suspicions were directed against the Prince Consort,
who, besides being the husband, was the wisest coun

460  THE CRIMEAN WAR                             [chap. XXI

sellor of the Queen. Among the educated classes,
Lord Aberdeen came in for the greatest share of
obloquy. The part taken by the old Tory press against
him was particularly disgraceful. He had been the
Foreign Secretary under both Wellington and Peel,

and if the question of Protection had not broken up
the party and the Government, Aberdeen would
undoubtedly have continued to be Foreign Secretary
of the Conservative party. Yet he was now attacked
by that party with violence, as if he were notoriously
inclined to sacrifice the honour of the country. This
was nothing but a vindictive assault upon him because
he had supported Free Trade, and because, under him
alone, it had been found possible to constitute a
united Cabinet such as ours.
But Aberdeen was not the only object of suspicion.
There was a magnificent cartoon in Punch, representing
the British lion listening at the door of the Cabinet,
with his ear applied closely to the available apertures
for sound, that he might hear what we were about in
the way of negotiation. Our Cabinet at that time was
rather leaky. Things got out, we did not quite know
Ihow, and reports, not very correct, were circulated as
to the part taken by individual members.         believe

the explanation to have been this : Molesworth
had a habit of taking down in a pocket-book notes
Iof what passed in Cabinet discussions. On one

occasion saw Granville stop short in what he was
saying, and intimate that     he could    notIf  go on till
Molesworth laid down his      note-book.
                                                  the note

books were accessible to anyone, their contents may
have reached the ears of Charles Villiers, of Kinglake,
and of Hayward, through whom they would have a
Iwide circulation in the press and in the clubs of

London. This believe to have been the source of a
great deal of the small-talk, full of misrepresentation,
which was embalmed in the history of the Crimean
War, which we owe to the clever but not very
scrupulous pen of the author of ' Eothen.'

1854]  VISIT TO IRELAND                                        461

IAt the end of the session of 1853, my wife and took
advantage of a kind invitation from the Duke of
Leinster to visit him in Ireland. My wife's younger
sister, Caroline, had married Lord Kildare, the Duke's
eldest son. The Duke was a dear old man, full of

energy and life, speaking with a strong brogue, and
dispensing a warm-hearted hospitality to all his friends
and neighbours. We spent a pleasant time with him
at Carton, and with the Kildares, for whom the Duke
Iwas restoring an old castle called Kilkea. At Carton

   was interested by seeing the College of Maynooth,
which was on the Duke's estate, and was the seminary
in which the members of the Roman Catholic priest
hood of Ireland were almost all educated. The Duke
was on the most friendly footing with all the staff of
Ithe college, and especially with Dr. Russell, a most
cultivated and gentlemanlike man.              was much

Iamused by an answer which he gave me to a question

which happened to put to him one evening after
Idinner. Something had raised the question of prayers

for the dead, and asked Dr. Russell how long in his
Church prayers were continued for the dead. He

Ireplied : ' Oh, only a very short time !' But rejoined
Ithat had heard and read of such prayers being pro

longed for years. ' Oh yes,' he said, ' but that is
I Ionly in the case of very exalted and wealthy people.'
  thought that had never before heard such a frank
admission that such a view is taken by the Roman
Catholic Church of the advantages of wealth in another
life.
   As  the second visit of the  Q'uIereenlantdo 'sIreolannlyd
take   place shortly, and as                                   was to
                                                               Duke '

would naturally have a good deal to do on that occa
sion, we thought it right to leave him free of guests.
We therefore took our departure from Dublin, by the
railway to Belfast, on       very morning of
arrival at Kingstown.   the  was a fine clear  the Queen's
                                               day, and as
                         It
we steamed out of Dublin we saw the Queen's flotilla
arriving, and heard the salutes which were fired in

462               THE CRIMEAN WAR                   [chap, xxi

honour of the occasion. It was an extremely pretty
sight, and it remains photographed on my organs
of visual memory with unusual distinctness. Our
Idestination near Belfast was Clandeboye, the home

of Lord Dufferin, the most intimate friend ever
Ihad of my own age. His friendship has added more

than can well say to the happiness and the charm
of life.
I IFor this autumn we had made an arrangement which

  am afraid was in some ways far from successful.
Ihaverepeatedly mentioned in    this      memoir    hoIwreianltliy
       had become with Lord               Russell.
mate                            John
do not think that our intimacy was at all sensibly
Iincreased by our being, now for the first time,
colleagues in the same Government.        knew that
he was sore and fretful on account of not being at
its head. But he never said a word to me that
betrayed this state of mind. This was natural. He

Iknew that came into office as a friend of Aberdeen,
Iand that should be unable to take the same view as
he did of the necessities which had arisen out of his
Iown failure to form a purely Whig Cabinet. But he

was at least as friendly as before to me, and was
Ipersonally very fond of him. Before the close of the
session   heard that he was looking out for some
Iplace in Scotland where he might go for a few weeks
with his family.     therefore determined to offer him
the loan of        place, Rosneath,       onItthheadFirstpheciaolf
Clyde. This  my   willingly accepted.
             he      Iitn

advantages for him         the  existing  anxious condition
of foreign affairs.        was  close to  Greenock, whence

there was rapid railway communication with London.
And yet it was very private and retired in its situa
tion, with walks of singular beauty along quiet shores,
and with an exquisite mountain-range in the middle
Idistance.

      had a longer distance to travel from Inveraray,
but Aberdeen kindly gave me timely notice of any

important Cabinets that he could foresee. In the

1854]  PALMERSTON AND LORD JOHN RUSSELL                   463

changes which went on from day to day, and almost
from hour to hour, there was one moment when

Aberdeen and Clarendon were obliged to answer
quickly, and, catching Palmerston, who was passing
through London, they called for his help and advice,
and drew up an amendment which had to be sent
off at once. When it was sent to Lord John it
elicited from him a letter, addressed to Clarendon on
September 17th. This letter would have no interest
now, were it not for the fact that the terms of it reveal
the real cause of proceedings on Lord John's part soon
after which, led to the most serious results. He declared
that he felt himself to be in a degraded position, which

it required all his patience to bear. This no doubt was
the truth. He had summoned up enough of magna
nimity to join a Government in which he was not to
hold the first place, but he had not magnanimity
enough to face the difficulties which this position in
volved. He was surrounded by a clique of old Whigs
who were always inciting him to discontent, and on the
least provocation it was                bursting out in letters
                          aIlwf ahyes  had so little confidence
threatening resignation.
in the three ablest of his colleagues that he could not
trust them to make some verbal amendments in
documents like the one in question, he ought to have
stayed in London, as Aberdeen and Clarendon did,
during the whole autumn, so that he could have seen
everything that went on at the Foreign Office.
Aberdeen, in forming the Cabinet, had unfortunately
held out a possible prospect of retiring altogether
at some favourable     opIptoritsunniotwy,   when Lord    John
might take his place.                       evident that  Lord
John looked for this change taking place about this
time, and when he saw no signs of it coming, his annoy
ance increased. Aberdeen took the opportunity of
telling Lord John that the amendment which so roused
his indignation was mainly drafted, not by Clarendon
Ior by himself, but by Palmerston.          did not hear of
Ithis letter at the time, but knew enough even then,

464       THE CRIMEAN WAR                       [chap. XXI

and know far more now, to make me admire beyond
measure the calmness, dignity, and imperturbable
good temper with which Aberdeen met the complaints
of his colleague. He had the comfort during this
wretched autumn of the tactful ability and straightness
of Clarendon, whose perceptions of personal character
were as quick and true as his resourcefulness was
great, in shaping a course beset with many difficulties,
which were inseparable from the conditions of the
problem to be solved, and from the very opposite
suggestions to which these conditions gave rise,
according as they were viewed from one aspect or

another.
We were all agreed to oppose the possession of Con
stantinople by the Russians. We could not, therefore,
coerce Turkey by threatening to leave her to her fate.
Consequently the issues of peace or war were in a great
degree taken out of our hands, and placed in the
hands of a barbarian Government, which might and

did wish for war, when it found itself backed by the
two great Western Powers of Europe. But again, if
we allowed ourselves to be dragged into the war under

those influences, we could not tell how widely it might
extend. There might be a rising among the Christian
subjects of the Porte, supported by Russia, and what
would be our position then ? Could we fight for the
Turk against them ? Then, again, we had our game
to play with Austria. To persuade her to support
us was our great aim from the first. Any act of need
less precipitation in the direction of war would alienate
her sympathy, and might even drive her into the arms
of Russia. There never, surely, was a more tangled
skein. Hence the hope and desire to find a peaceful
solution were not founded on any mere abstract horror
of a great war, but on    the    doIutbwtfausl
issues which were before    us.                 and precarious
                                                most annoying
to feel or even to suspect that the mind of so important
a member of the Government as Lord John Russell

was being swayed by feelings and considerations which

1863] LETTER TO LORD JOHN RUSSELL 465

Iwere quite irrelevant to the merits of the questions

before us. Yet saw in several letters from Lord
John, in the latter end of September, that he was

Itaking a more decidedly pro-Turkish line, which had
Inot before observed in him, and therefore, as was on
Iintimate terms with him, and as believed he put
Isome trust in my judgment, thought it right to
address   to him on the        a24wthholSee. pteImt bwears  a letter on    our
position  considered as                                      as follows
                                                                           :

                                                            ' Inveraray,

'My dear Lord John,                                       'September 24, 1853.

I' Really we seem in a great mess about the East.                          do not

see our way out of it. But though the Porte is all in the right,

and the Czar utterly in the wrong, I trust we shall not commit the

honour of England too closely to act for the Turks, as they have
                                                          The degree
an undoubted right to act for themselves.                 equality of  and extent

dtoencweh"ichwitthheoythaerre   entitled  to uphold  an                " indepen
                               European   Powers is  one
                                                          thing ; the extent to

which we are bound to act with and for them in this struggle is

quite another thing. We must know that, as a fact, this equality

of position is not true ; we must be conscious that we do not
ourselves act upon this view of her position. The language in

which we are perpetually addressing her from our own Embassy

and our Foreign Office on subjects connected with her internal
administration is such as we should never dream of addressing to a
Power practically possessed of the position to which, ostensibly,

she is nevertheless entitled.

   ' It is all very well, in the language of diplomacy and the forms

of official intercourse, to shut our eyes to this fatal discrepancy
between fact and theory, but we shall get into a dreadful scrape if
we carry this too far. For example, in the event of a war between

Turkey and Russia about the Principalities, I cannot believe that

the Christian population would actually side heartily in support of
Turkey. They may not wish to fall under the Empire of Russia ;
but this will not seem to them the only alternative. With a view

simply to independence, they would probably feel and act rather
with Russia than with the Mussulman hordes now assembled on

the Danube.

VOL. I.                                                                30

466                                     THE CRIMEAN WAR                                              m[chap,

   ' Now, if such a feeling were expressed or manifested, however

indirectly, it would be utterly impossible for us to take part against
it. Yet the independence of those provinces would be as much a
violation of the "integrity" of Turkey as their cession to the

Czar.                                                                                                very different thing -- as
  'It would                                             --a                                          other considerations of
                  "nobtalabnecetheofsampoewethr in"g
regards the                                             and

TEuurrokpisehan"  pinotleicgyr,itybu"t  ;  it would be  quite the same thing                         as regards
                                            and if we   commit ourselves too                         closely to

this, I see nothing but the most fatal entanglement before us.
' It is quite a different thing to stand by in an attitude of armed

watchfulness, and to see that events which interest all Europe do

not issue in the mere aggrandizement of one Power, and that one
egregiously in the wrong. I only trust that the English Cabinet
          ahcotnaosurifanthdeyindheapdentdheencseam"e
will not                                                duties as the Divan in respect
                                                        of a Mahomedan Empire.
to the "
  ' I do not mean, of course, that the fact of their religion makes

Iit excusable to treat them with any injustice. But mean simply

that the fact of the relation in which the Government stands to

the religion of a great portion of its subjects renders that policy

impossible, which, under any circumstances, could never have been

a duty.                                                                                              ' Yours, etc.,

                                                                                                             ' Argyll.'

Some of these reasons for delaying as long as possible
IwachrtIesitccheoiisfvetwhidmiaspfrrooslmaesgtitbaeAliernbsetrtrdoeReveuemasnlsissi.dataaktaeeIrdte   indicated in a letter
                                                                                                     November 3, 1853.
                                                                                                     the attitude of mind
                                                                                                      was an attitude of
intense annoyance with some of the most insuperable
facts of the position in which we and all our allies
were placed. We were driving straight into a war
for, and with, a barbarous Government which had

declined          tostafnodlloawloneou--r  a  advice, which, nevertheless,
could not                                      Government whose interests

were only very partially, and perhaps only very tem
porarily, coincident with our own. A change of
circumstances, which was not at all unlikely to occur,

1853]  SINOPE                                467

might destroy even this partial coincidence in a
moment. One of the most important of our allies,
Austria, whose direct interests were very much more
nearly concerned than ours, was at that very moment
holding aloof and even threatening separation from us
Iuntil she saw what our next move would be.
                                             quite
agreed with Aberdeen that the situation was intolerably
provoking. The whole Cabinet felt it, and the French
GoIvterwnams eunnt deferltthietseequciarlclyu.mstances that we all agreed
to make one more united effort to secure a diplomatic

settlement, and we came nearer to it than we had ever
come before. England, France, Austria, and Prussia
all united in a form of Turkish concession to Russia,

which the Sultan agreed to. It was just when the
preliminary achievement had been accomplished that
an event happened which introduced additional passion
into the already explosive elements with which we had
to deal. The silly and wayward Turks, after declaring
war against Russia, had the inconceivable folly to
send their little wretched fleet into the Black Sea,
and to anchor it in the open and undefended harbour
of Sinope. This bay is only about 180 miles from
Sebastopol, and of course the Turkish fleet was marked
down by a reconnoitring squadron from the great
Russian arsenal, as a woodcock is marked down by
sportsmen. Then the Russian fleet appeared, and, as
the Turks resisted, they were simply destroyed, as
completely as we had destroyed the Turkish fleet at
Navarino twenty-three years before.
The British people had been pretty nearly at white
heat against Russia long before this event. But what
was called the ' massacre ' of Sinope drove them wild.
The French Government was mortified and affronted
in a high degree, and we agreed with France that our
combined fleets should enter the Black Sea, and
intimate to Russia that the Turkish flag, as well as
Turkish territory, was for the future placed under the
combined protection of the two Western Powers.
                                     30--2

468  THE CRIMEAN WAR  [chap, xii

 This step, though not taken for the purpose, had at
 that moment one great advantage : it brought to an
 immediate test the theory that strong measures such
 as this, amounting almost to belligerent acts, on the
 part of England and France in close concert and
 alliance, were the only measures that were calculated

to affect the conduct of the Czar. In the present case
 it was just in time. We had not yet communicated to

 Russia the new plan of settlement, to which we had
 procured the assent not only of our special ally, France,

and of Turkey, but of Austria and Prussia also. It
was a concert, therefore, of the whole of Europe. It

 was at a moment, too, when Nicholas might well have
been content with the tremendous blow he had inflicted
on Turkey, in the utter destruction of her fleet, and in
the exhibition of his maritime supremacy over her.

If, therefore, Nicholas could ever have afforded to
accept without loss of dignity a threat from the
Western Powers, made in the interests of peace, this
was the moment when it would have seemed possible
for him to do so. But nothing of the kind happened.
On the contrary, that happened which was sure to
happen with a man of the overbearing pride of that
haughty Sovereign. Not only did he spurn the
proffered terms of peace, but, as if on purpose to set
at ease the most peaceful among us, he asserted roundly

the very doctrine of his own exclusive right to deal
with Turkey as he pleased, which we were all united in
resisting, and which, in principle, he had himself
repudiated in signing the Treaty of 1840. This was
the only issue which justified, in my opinion, a war,
nominally in defence of the Turk, but really a war
in defence of the right of Europe to keep the fate of
Turkey as a matter of common interest and concern.

All assertions, therefore, and all assumptions that

the Aberdeen Government plunged the country into
war in support of the barbarous Government of

ITurkey, are a gross misrepresentation of the facts.

   had the best means of knowing what the policy

1853]   JOHN BRIGHT AND LORD ABERDEEN              469

        of which we went to         wIars.tateMdy   own
        strong and definite.                       it as
Iwas in support

view of it was
emphatically and as frequently as could in letters
to my colleagues. The replies they gave me proved
their complete concurrence in that plea of European
right in support of which alone we were prepared to

fight.
   Having thus concluded my personal recollections

Iof the causes which led to the war with Russia, must
advert for a moment to a speech of John Bright, made
long after, in which he told his audience that Lord
Aberdeen had confessed to him in private conversation
that he deeply regretted having allowed himself to

become responsible for that war. In such a case
memory is apt to be deceptive, and especially so when
strong convictions and strong feelings lead us to put
a sense upon the words of other men which is a good
deal different from that which they may have been

intended to convey. In later years Lord Aberdeen
did indeed often wish that he had never been placed
in a position which compelled him to be a War
Minister. But this is a very different thing from
saying, either that he could have retreated from that
position, or that, being in it, he could have discharged
Iits duties otherwise than he did.  can speak from
Ipersonal knowledge on this point, because doubt
whether he ever spoke to anyone more freely than to
me, and on one occasion he did express himself so

nearly in the sense attributed to him by John Bright

Ithat felt compelled to put to him a testing question.
I said : ' Now, Lord Aberdeen, will you allow me to

put one question to you ? In all our long negotiations,
lasting through ten months, can you put your finger on
any one step to which you ought never to have assented,
or any one step which you ought to have taken and
Ifailed to take ?' ' No, cannot,' was Lord Aberdeen's
Iimmediate reply. ' Then,'  said, ' my dear Lord
Aberdeen, you have nothing to reproach yourself with.

Your feeling of regret is nothing but the feeling common

470  THE CRIMEAN WAR  [chap, xxi

to us all--a feeling of ceaseless regret that we were
placed in a position in which duty to our country and

to Europe compelled us to take a course which resulted
in war.'

   It was an immense relief to me that our long and

hopeless negotiations to keep the peace were brought
to an end by the action of Russia, thus clearing up the
issue which might otherwise have been obscured.

          CHAPTER XXII

                      1853-54

CABINET   FCORUIRSISP--OINRTESSIG' --NALTEITOTNEROTFOLOLORRDDPACLLMAREERNSDTOONN  --
   THE '

It was in the middle of those anxious days in
December, 1853, when our last efforts, in concert with

the other Powers of Europe, were being made to secure
a peaceful solution,  that we  raelsl isgundadtieonnlyoffouPanldmoeursrtsoenlv--es
in a Cabinet crisis   by the
not upon the Eastern Question, but upon Lord John
Russell's plan of Parliamentary Reform. When
Palmerston originally agreed to join the new Cabinet,
he had warned Aberdeen that he thought it quite
possible that he might be unable to concur  in John
Russell's schemes of a new Reform Bill.
                                             It was
understood among us that, in our second session, Lord
John was to be free to make some proposal of this
nature. We all knew he was working at it in the
autumn, and we heard that he was urging an early
meeting of Parliament. On the other hand, there was
Ino feeling about it in the country, and no expectation.

Justly or unjustly, hardly know, many of us in the
Cabinet thought the whole idea merely another
Iexhibition of the restlessness with which John Russell

was consumed. But in so far as thought seriously
at all on the subject of further changes in our electoral
system, it was curious to note how, here again, as in
foreign affairs, the old lines of party cleavage had
completely disappeared. The Peelite Conservatives
were most favourable to reform, the old Whigs were
pronouncedly adverse. Aberdeen and Graham were

                               471

472  RESIGNATION OF LORD t»ALMERSTON Lchap. i*n

foremost in their willingness, Lansdowne and Palmer-
ston were foremost in their antipathy.
   Lord John's plan was crudely simple.                                          It was a mere
repetition, of course on a much smaller scale, of the Bill
of 1832. There was to be another Schedule A of small
boroughs to be disfranchised. There was to be another
Schedule B of double-seated boroughs to lose one of
their two members. The franchise was to be lowered

from £10 to £5, and the municipal franchise was to be
the basis in the towns. The moment Palmerston saw
the scheme, he opposed it, as going far beyond any
thing that could be said to be itself desirable. Some
modifications were offered by the Committee of
Cabinet to whom it had been referred --principally
Graham, John Russell, and Aberdeen. But these did
not satisfy Palmerston, and on the 10th of December he
wrote to Aberdeen intimating his resignation. Aber
deen made no attempt to keep him, and seemed to
Iconsider his resignation as a matter of course.
      believe this attitude on Lord Aberdeen's part was
due to a chivalrous feeling that he was bound toward
Lord John to be guided by him on this question of
Reform, and that he must not sacrifice anything that
he deemed essential for the sake of keeping Palmerston,
especially as Palmerston, in a long letter to Lansdowne,
had indicated very   plainly his                                      es' tIimcaatnenootf  the incen
tives which moved    Lord John.                                                            consent to
be dragged through the dirt by John Russell,' were
Palmerston's words. Whatever may have been the
inducement under which Aberdeen at once accepted
tPIhaelsmtrCeoarnsbgtionlyne'ts.parreItsiciwgipanasatteioodunt,   it  raised rather a storm in
                                                                 of   town at the moment, but
                                                                 in   the feeling of alarm and

Iregret which was    Awbeidredseperne,adtellainmgonhgimotuhratcoI lltehaoguugehst.
  at once wrote to
he took the loss of Palmerston too easily, and warning
     that,                                                                       olnegRaelfsoor--mt,hahet
     quite
Ihim

was
            though   Palmerston                                       resigned
            certain  to stand on                                      the other
of disapproval of our foreign policy.                                            did not know

1853-64]  DESPATCH OF TROOPS  473

Iit at that moment, but now find that I was quite

right, inasmuch as Palmerston, in one of his letters,
took up his old parable about more energetic steps
against Russia. But besides this, there was a wide
spread feeling of respect for Palmerston among all of
us. The consequence was a strenuous endeavour to

induce Palmerston to return. In the meantime came

the Turkish catastrophe of Sinope, and, consequent on
that, our resolve to occupy the Black Sea with our
united fleets. This event, of course, greatly conciliated
Palmerston, and when he was assured that the Reform
Bill was not yet settled, he agreed to come back, and
wrote to Aberdeen on the 28th of December with
drawing his resignation.

   Under conditions of insuperable necessity, both
military and diplomatic, we had no choice except to
send whatever army we could spare, first to cover
Constantinople, and then to threaten the flank of any
Russian advance across the Danube and the Balkans.
Accordingly, from early in January, the whole strength
of our great military and administrative departments
was exerted to the utmost to concentrate, first at
Gallipoli and then at Varna, a powerful fleet and a
considerable army. The discredit which a temporary
failure subsequently brought on all departments con
nected with the Crimean War has most unjustly
obliterated the memory of the admirable efficiency
which they showed in all the initial stages of the
expedition. As to this, no better judge could exist than
Admiral Lord Lyons, who wrote to Graham on the
6th of April : ' You have made a glorious beginning,
and have astonished the world with the rapidity with

Iwhich you have sent both fleets and armies.'

   During the early weeks of 1854 was a good deal
occupied in preparing for publication in the Edinburgh
Review a careful history of our negotiations with
Russia on the Eastern Question, from the moment
when our attention was first drawn to it by the squabble
between France and Russia about the Holy Places.

474  RESIGNATION OF LORD PALMERSTON [chap, xxii

This paper appeared in the July number of the old Whig
Iquarterly under the title of ' The Diplomatic History
of the Eastern Question.'         venture to think that in
that article my readers will find an accurate and
authentic    account      of the           and   the causes of the
Crimean                  had, of  course    the  best materials to
           War. I                 course,

work upon, not only having access to all the official
documents, but having been myself a party to all the
discussions which went on among us, both in the Cabinet
Iand out of it.

      see that the biographer of Lord Lyons attributes
to Sir James Graham the merit of having been the
Minister who suggested the Crimea as the great object
Iof our attack, or who, by his advocacy, overcame the
objections of his colleagues.              do not recognise the
truth of this representation, because there never was
any difference of opinion in the                                     this
sbuebfojreect--frtohmat  the moment it became   Cabinet  --upaonnd  even
                                               apparent
                          our army was of no   use at Varna.
The truth is that one glance at the map of Europe,
and one moment's recollection of the great object we
had in view, were enough to force upon us the conviction
that the capture and destruction of Sebastopol and of
its fleet would be the very summit of our desire. There
were three conclusive reasons in favour of this course.

In the first place, it would fulfil, as nothing else could,
our avowed object of relieving the Turkish Empire from
the most imminent danger to which it was exposed.

In the second place, Sebastopol was the point in the
Russian dominion most accessible to the assault of fleets,

and affording the most secure naval base for military

operations, however prolonged. In the third place, it
was that point of Russian territory which, at the
extremity of her dominions in Europe, would call for
the greatest drain on    Ihterisresqouuirtcees,trubeoththaas tto  men and
materials of war.                                                 Graham,
being in charge of our navy, and seeing what an oppor
tunity for splendid service an expedition to the Crimea
would give to our sailors, had his attention early fixed

1863-54]     INSTRUCTIONS TO LORD RAGLAN            475

uopfoSnirit,Ednmotuna dlitLtlyeonesn.couIragheadd   by the spirit and zeal
                                                    been much struck by
this admirable man ten years before, when he received
me so kindly at Athens. He was now second in com
mand of our fleet in the Mediterranean and Black Sea,
Inand he was the life and soul of all the operations there.

      person he had an extraordinary likeness to Lord
Nelson, and the likeness extended to his professional
cHhearaaccqteurir.edThaegrereawtasinfnluoethnicneg   he considered difficult.
                                                    over Lord Raglan, who
commanded our army, and inspired everyone with
energy and heart and hope. Neither Lord Raglan nor
the French commander, St. Arnaud, was disposed to
risk the invasion of the Crimea, in almost complete
ignorance of the force that they would have to meet.
They acted in obedience to the expressed desire of the
two Governments at home. Although, of course, our
directions were subject to considerations of physical
Ipossibility, they placed a tremendous responsibility

on the commanders, and am not at all sure that they
would have thought the expedition possible if it had
not been for the eagerness, hopefulness, and indomi
table energy of Lord Lyons.

   As it was, many weeks passed before we could be
quite sure that the army could be moved from Varna,
and we had the Sebastopol enterprise as our desire
anIdt        all the time.
       hope  the habit of   Ministers               at that time to have
        was
Cabinet dinners, as well as the usual and more regular
smeerieotuinsgswoinrkDwoawsnidnogneS--trseuecth. ,  At the dinners the least

                                                    for example, as the final
reading of despatches, which in substance had been

already agreed to. In this way, after many and long
discussions, we had unanimously agreed to send out a
despatch to Raglan, directing him to employ our army
in an attack on the Russians in the Crimea. This was
seen in draft by all of us, and the final reading came on
after a dinner at Lord John Russell's, at Pembroke
Lodge, Richmond Park. That night is one of those in

476 RESIGNATION OF LORD PALMERSTON [chap, xxii

mIty   past life which is  deeply imprinted on  mfoyrmmael m--otrhye.
      is true that our     business was purely

sanctioning of a despatch, the purport and the general
terms of which had been decided long before. But
there are some transactions in which the closing for
malities may make a deep impression, and recall with
vividness all the emotions through which they have
been reached. The final order to launch our compara
tively small army of some 30,000 men on the shores
of the greatest    military  --coautnrtarnysacintiontheto  world  was
a transaction of  this kind                                which  the

final seal could not be put without making a strong
impression, at least on those younger members of the
Cabinet who never in their lives had had to do with
decisions so terrible, because we had never lived in the
time of a great war. Some of our elder colleagues were
in a very different position, although even they had
spent the last forty years of their lives in times of
nearly complete European peace. But there were at
least three men at that dinner at Pembroke Lodge to
whom a great military decision was but a revival of
work with which they had been familiar in early
life. Lansdowne had lived through all the great
contests with Napoleon. Aberdeen had seen with his
own eyes the appalling carnage of Leipsic. Palmerston
had had the high honour of sending to Wellington his
Field-Marshal's baton for the glorious Battle of
         But most of us                                    with
          confess that                                     that
Vittoria.I                   had no such familiarity
                             felt very painfully even
Iwar, and
Ismall share of our collective responsibility which could
Iappropriate to myself.      was glad, therefore, when,
Iwell on towards midnight, our meeting broke up, and
could escape into the sweet and calm air of a glorious
summer night.
IA happy incident added to my pleasure, and lent me
help in recovering some feeling of assurance.              found
that Gladstone had no carriage of his own, and in
Itended to walk to the station and   go home by train.
                                     him to come with
   had an open carriage, and begged

1853-54J     LORD PALMERSTON' S FORECAST                             477

me. He at once agreed, and we had a delicious drive
home, through the wide-open spaces and under the
massive columns of oak and elm foliage which rose
dcoanrkstlyellaintioRnisc.hmoIntd    Park against the  splendour of  the
                                   was midsummer,      and the air   was
full of the smell of all the blossoms that make sweet
the whole air of suburban London at that season of the
Iyear.    soon found that Gladstone had no misgivings.
It was not the habit of his mind to go back upon de
cisions once reached. On the contrary, he was always
disposed to repel doubts and hesitations, even those
which he had felt before. An assured and even a

passionate advocacy generally took the place of any
former hesitations. He was therefore in this, as well
as in other matters, a charming companion on that
eventful night.
   Some two or three days later, one of our usual

ICabinets was held in Downing Street. walked down
Ito it, as often did, from the Athenaeum Club, and on
Imy way recognised the square form and sturdy step of
Palmerston approaching the top of the steps leading

Idown from the Duke of York's column. Hastening

my own pace, soon overtook him, just as he had
crossed the Mall and was walking down the Espla
IInade. Putting my arm under his, and joining his walk,

   said : ' Well, Lord Palmerston, feel sure we have
theItrigishtnotht inognlyin                   an   attack upon Sebas-
Idone                                              is almost the only
                                               it
topol.
                                   ordering
                                   the best,

thing we have to do, and yet cannot help feeling a
little nervous about it. We know so little what force

the Russians may have been able to send there.' On
which Palmerston replied in his most cheery and jaunty
tones : ' Oh, you need not be in the least anxious.
With our combined fleets and our combined armies we
              to succeed. You                 know,' he went on to say,
are certain                                   science that an invested
             asxuiroemtoinfalml. ilitIatryis   a mere question of time.
' it is an

fortress is
It may be longer or shorter, according to circumstances,
but the invested fortress must fall. We shall have one

478  RESIGNATION OF LORD PALMERSTON [chap, nn

battle to fight outside the walls, and then the siege.
IThe end is certain.' And in this strain he continued till
we had reached the Cabinet rooms.  wondered at

the sanguine nature of the man. Several doubts
Ioccurred to me. Was a real investment possible ?

Were we quite sure of that ? Well might ask myself
this question, for, as a matter of fact, we never were
able to invest Sebastopol, and the near approach to
failure which at one moment seemed to threaten our
expedition was due mainly to the very fact that
Ithe first and most important of Palmerston's gay
Iassumptions was never realized.   had no desire to
argue with him.
                 was even too glad to accept the
view of a colleague of such long experience both in peace
Iand war. But in my heart of hearts could not feel
I Iwholly reassured.
                 felt as if were the elder of the
Itwo, although Palmerston was then seventy and was
just thirty years of age.

  I IBefore proceed with the events of our war,
must retrace my steps again for a space, to bring up to
Idate my account of what had been happening in the

Cabinet. have mentioned how Palmerston had been
persuaded to rejoin us in the end of December, 1853,
after he had left us on the subject of Lord John Rus
sell's Reform Bill. Lord John was besieged by
friends who advised him to give up so untimely an

enterprise. In the Cabinet he had no strong supporters,
except Aberdeen and Graham, whilst Palmerston's
objections were so insuperable that it was clear that
perseverance would again break up the Government.
Under these circumstances, after several resolutions
Ito resign, Lord John at last consented to intimate his

withdrawal of his Bill. went down to hear him, and
was much astonished by seeing him completely break
down under the emotion which the sacrifice excited

in his mind. It is surely unreasonable that any one
man should so identify himself with a great public
measure, which is disliked by a majority of his own
colleagues, and notoriously by a great majority of the

1853-54]         FRIENDSHIP WITH GLADSTONE         479

House of Commons, that he is to claim credit for some
special magnanimity in consenting not to press it down
their throats. Yet this was what Lord John seemed to
claim for himself, and what, strange to say, many of his
                  and other
colIletagwuaess  during the  politicians conceded   to him.
                             months subsequent     to the forma
Ition of the Aberdeen Cabinet that my intimacy with
Gladstone was cemented.      had known him before,
but not intimately. But my enthusiastic admiration
Iof his great Budget speeches, to his colleagues and in

Parliament, and the warm support gave his plan

Iwhilst it was yet in danger, had drawn us much to

gether, and never found that the antagonism of our
opinions on ecclesiastical matters made the smallest
difference in our friendship. Then there was another
bond between us which arose about the same time, and
that was the formation of a close friendship between
Gladstone and his wife and my mother-in-law, the
Duchess of Sutherland. His rich and abundant nature
overflowed in his conversation, and the high interests
of which it was full were just those to captivate her
generous, sympathetic, and appreciative character.
The result was a friendship which endured with great
enjoyment to both so long as the Duchess lived. One
of the opportunities of happy intercourse arose out of
the residence of the Duchess at her villa of Clieveden.

It was common for Gladstone to come down there by rail

Iafter the Saturday's Cabinets, and to stay till Monday.

As often as we could, my wife and were of the party,
and every conceivable subject of interest was habitu
ally discussed. On Sundays we used to attend service

at the little parish church of Hedsor. It was perched
on the top of the steep face of a rolling down, which
falls into the valley of the Thames above Maidenhead,
and is much beautified by hanging woods of beech.
The church is surrounded by a group of old elms, and
commands a lovely perspective up the reaches of the
river. The steep green banks at our feet, as we used
to come out of church, were often yellow with a little

480       RESIGNATION OF LORD PALMERSTON [chap, xxii

Iforest of cowslips. Altogether it was an ideal site,

and must add, we always had an ideal service. The
incumbent was a Mr. Williams, a country clergyman,
without any pretension or affectations, but who had
a reverent, sensitive, and tender voice, and who, after
a very simple and a very impressive reading of the
service, always delivered a sermon of the same char
acter, suited to a congregation mainly composed of
peasants of the most rural type. And yet we all
listened with something more than pleasure, because
of a reality and a heartiness which made it far more
impressive than the great majority of ordinary dis

courses.  in  that  little  church  that                 I  first  noticed  the

  It was
unusual devoutness with which Gladstone took part
in the service. The responses seemed no formality to
him, and it always interested me much to see the
intent and respectful listening which he never failed
to give to Mr. Williams' short and simple preaching.
One of the most powerful and most cultivated intel
lects in England was seen bowing its head in reverence
and admiration before the most childlike Christian
Iteaching to the poor.
                                                         kept at this time I
   In a political journal which
find the following record of rather a curious conversa
tion with Gladstone at Clieveden on the 30th July,
--185w4he: th' eSrpoiktewoofultdhebelatberoRuegfhotrmin  Bill with Gladstone

                                                          again, whether the
minority clause would ever be carried. My own im
pression was not. He thought it very essential ;
doubted whether Reform in the same shape would
come before us again at all ; said that, in his opinion,
                    IBislal idwe
Ithat was the last                should ever see attempting

organic change.                    doubted whether it could
be called organic change. He argued that it was a
question of degree, and that since the Act of 1832
Ithere was no old prescriptive status on which resist
ance to Reform could be based.                           said that, the lead
ing men of so many different sections being pledged

1853-64]     CONVERSATIONS WITH GLADSTONE                      481

to some such measure, and even the opponents not
resting on a refusal of all Reform, it must come up
again. He said there were no musts in our Constitu
tion ; so many things had stood, and were standing,

Iof which it had been said years ago that they must

fall. He quoted, as have heard him do before, the
Irish Church as a remarkable instance of a beleaguered
Iinstitution, from which the investing forces had almost
drawn off.'         quote this conversation because it is a
curious illustration of a feature in Gladstone's mind

which has rather escaped observation. It is generally

supposed that his mind was as original as it was in

Igenious and passionate and strong. In my opinion, it

tsIwottareswoaqtamhuse--itrehsn.aotbhtietIutamalwlholayesyltdssr,wetchiemeonpwmatcieivnivoegeursm,lwyintihtdheevetohhrnyeaetvhesimntregoevsaetmrthok--abntvosiowomfuensel.l
          it from   --othheeldr  minds, or from the suggestions of
upon
party      tactics               it till it took fire and blazed out
in a conflagration which
bustion, or else led to          seemed   like  spontaneous    com
                                 silence  and   acquiescence.
                                                                  It
cannot be denied that in this case his anticipations
were absolutely wrong, and that he himself was des
tined to prove their error. But the explanation is
simple. For a good many months he had been living
in an atmosphere thoroughly hostile to Lord John
Russell's Reform Bill. The majority of his colleagues
disliked it. The House of Commons loathed it. The
whole political world was sick of the Bill. The recep
tivity of Gladstone's nature had drunk in this disposi
tion of the political atmosphere, and he had interpreted

it in the sense of a permanent alienation from all
schemes of the kind.
   The illustration which Gladstone quoted to me
against there being any ' must ' in politics is curious
from another point of view. The Established Church
Iof Ireland was the only religious body against

which had ever observed in Gladstone any spirit of

intolerance or animosity. In general he was singu
vol. i.
                                                31

482 RESIGNATION OF LORD PALMERSTON [chap, xxn

Ilarly tolerant in speaking of those who differed from

him in religion. But on one occasion, especially, had
heard him express himself towards the Established
IChurch of Ireland with a personal bitterness of dislike

which astonished me at the time. ascribed it mainly
to the fact that the Church of Ireland was almost
universally Low Church in ecclesiastical politics, as
the natural result of its position in the face of the
Roman priesthood. Here again early prepossessions
had seated themselves in his mind, and were ready
to break out into fierce combustion when political need
and opportunities supplied the spark.
The same explanation applies to his great Budget
of 1853. In principle             --itthawt,asnanmoetly,oriogfinuasl.ing  The

fundamental conception                                                     the
                                  financial instrument for the
income-tax   as  atagrirfef a--t  was entirely borrowed from
reform of
            the
the financial operations of Sir Robert Peel, ten years
before. Gladstone's passionate defence of the income-
tax against changes which he thought would break
it down, and unfit it for the beneficent purpose to
which it had been applied by Peel, and to which he
himself wished to apply it further, was thoroughly
characteristic of the enthusiastic attachment of his
intellectual nature to conceptions which had once
taken strong hold upon it. Parliamentary Reform had
Inever been one of his favourite lines of movement, and

therefore was not deceived by his strange vaticina
tions  that we should hear        nIto  more of it.
   To  return to the war.               may well be  thought  that,
when we had launched our great expedition to the
Crimea, we had nothing more to do than to watch
and await the issue. Of course, no belligerent fore
sees the terms of peace which he may demand until
he knows how far his arms have been successful. But
in our case the position was not so simple. We were
not fighting any mere battle of our own. We were
fighting in the interests of Europe, and it was of the
essence of our contest that we should secure at least

1853-54]            1 THE FOUR POINTS '                 483

the assent, and if possible the actual help, of the other
Powers    of Europe. But it was a
of this             atthlaetaswt--e osnhotuhlde  neagceresesarwy itchontsheeqmue--ncein
general   position
          terms,                                  aims and objects we
had in view, and which we were fighting to secure.
nFdreirogemocttilaytthiniwsgitihtatRctauhmseseiasa,ambbeouutttimwtehit--ahtnAewugesottrwiiaaetrineagn,fdignhoPttrinuingsdseiaaend--d,
and it was evident that Austria communicated to
Russia the purport of her intelligence from us. The
result of this state of things was that, before our army
had landed in the Crimea, a formal attempt had been
made by the Powers to define the objects of the war,
and consequently to foreshadow the future terms of

peace.

   The objects of the war were reduced to four, thence-
forwards known as ' the Four Points,' or ' the Four
            They were these :
Bases.'   of any protectorate               (o1v) erThteheabDaannduobniamnenPt ribny
Russia
cipalities ; (2) the navigation of the Danube to be
under the protection of the principles laid down at
                   of   Vienna ; (3)        a revision of the Treaty
the     Congress         the interests      of the balance of power
                    in
oinf  July, 1840,
      Europe ; (4) the abandonment by Russia of any
claim to protect the Christian subjects of the Porte,
whose interests were to be guarded by the Porte in
communication with the other Powers of Europe.
Vague as these bases were, they contain in hazy
outline the leading ideas that ultimately took definite
shape in the Treaty of Paris, which did at last terminate
the war. The third basis is perhaps the haziest of all.
yet it was quite intelligible to those who had followed
recent events, because we had all repeatedly referred
to the Treaty of 1840 as having laid down the principle
that Turkey was in future to be acknowledged as one
of the family      oinf teEruersotp. eanIt  nations, in which the others
                                            was in connection with this
had an equal
basis that a diplomatic phrase became established
which, in its form, was eminently ridiculous. The

                                                 31--2

484              ' THE FOUR POINTS '                       [chap. XXII

object was declared to be ' to attach the Ottoman
Empire to the European equilibrium,' which had not
been done when Europe was otherwise settled by the
Treaties of 1815. We had nothing whatever to do
with any communication of these bases to Russia.
But before our army had reached the Crimea, we had
heard that Russia refused to accept them, and that
Austria, with her usual timidity and shabbiness, had
resolved that this refusal would make no difference in
her attitude of an armed neutrality. Austria was
willing enough that we and France should spend our
blood and treasure in securing results which she con
fessed to be in accordance with her own interests, but
she would not risk the wrath of her powerful neighbour
by moving a man or spending a rouble to help us.
No words can express the sense of utter weariness
with which, during many months, we used to hear the
            FrouubrbisPhointhtsat' --citrhcelednortoeus,ndthethecondfiescreunscseios,n
diplomatic
of those '
the despatches, the meetings, the conventions, all
aiming at the development of these points into definite
Iand intelligibleideas, and  all in the  avlaliiens.hopIe  of getting
                 in her lot  with the                      never had
Austria to cast
much hope of it. recollected how unworthily Austria
had behaved in the great contest with Napoleon in the
days of Pitt, and how she got her deserved retribution
in the tremendous overthrow of Austerlitz. None the
less, we were compelled to keep Austria at least in tow,
and to   prevent her                     off from us  and throwing
all her  weight with  Rbursesaiakin--ga  contingency   which would
be fatal to our whole game in the East.
At the close of the session we all separated for the
recess, leaving in town only our less fortunate col
leagues who were bound to the mill of the great ad
Iministrative departments connected with the war.

We did so, think, in good spirits, all of us expecting
more or less confidently, like Palmerston, the successful
issue of our great adventure in the Black Sea. We had
ample time to nurse these expectations. Things went

1853-54]       LORD GREY      485

well, but slowly. It was in the end of June that we

had ordered the expedition ; it was the end of July

bfaletoftoVilrlaearnctaho.ueldFItrbeenwccaohsllepGcaetsentde.rtahleIatenwnndaosuonwfceeAllduogniutsinttoSbeehfpiostreeamrbmtheyer
before it could actually sail. On the 18th of that
month it landed, and on the 20th its first battle was

fought upon the Alma. During all those weeks we were
more or less scattered among our country homes, but

in constant correspondence with each other and with
outside friends and critics.
August and September were our usual months for
receiving guests at Inveraray, and amongst those who
visited us at this time were Lord and Lady Grey. Lord
Grey had been at Inveraray once before, as Minister in
attendance on the Queen, when Her Majesty did us the
honour of visiting us for a few hours in 1847, on her
way round the west coast of Scotland. Since then my
relations with Lord Grey had not been altogether
Ismooth. In the Ryland case, in which had much to
Ido with him,Itthohuagshthahpimpenoebdst,inhaotew,euvenrs,ymtopatmheetici,n

and unjust.
Iseveral remarkable cases to establish intimate friend

ships with men whom at first had much disliked, and
this was the case with Lord Grey. The Whig party
always found him a most difficult man to deal with as
a colleague, and, as is well known, his determined
refusal to serve in the same Cabinet with Palmerston
led on one occasion to the failure of Lord John to form
a Government at all, and was the first outward sign

Iof the break-up of the Whigs as a party capable of

governing the country. But could not help recog
nising in Lord Grey a man of singular honesty, and one

who was quite sure to prefer principle to office. In

Isubsequent years we became well acquainted, and
liked him much in private friendship. His intense

Ieagerness in everything was delightful, and soon
found out that, in spite of his coldness and hardness

in the Ryland case, he was full of tenderness whenever

486                ' THE FOUR POINTS '  [chap, xxn

the political element did not interfere. Of his great
natural ability there could be no doubt. His opinion
was, therefore, always worth having. He was, however,
too violently opposed to certain politicians to enable
him to take an unbiassed view of any course that was
identified with them. Gladstone, for example, was
a case in point. But this was in rather later
years. No prominent part had been taken by Lord
Grey on the Eastern Question in 1854, and our course
was not at all identified with his name. With
Aberdeen he had no relations, either personal or
political, except in so far, indeed, as his violent anti
pathy to the rowdyism of Palmerston may naturally
have inclined him to the calm and judicial attitude of
Aberdeen in all his relations with foreign Governments.
IHowever this may have been, in writing to Aberdeen

towards the end of August, mentioned to him that we
were soon to have Lord Grey as a visitor at Inveraray.
'         glad to  hear,' said Lord  IAdboerndoetendoiunbthiysoruepwlyil,l
     am  you are   to have Grey.
I'
  that
Ihear some good sense from him.' And so did. But
Ifor once found Grey echoing the voice of all the world,
Iand approving heartily of the Crimean expedition and of
the attack on Sebastopol.  cannot say that any ad
verse opinion would have had any effect with me on the
Ilong and well-considered arguments which had deter

mined our course. And yet confess that the hearty
approval of so universal and determined an objector
gave me a very sensible satisfaction, and convinced me
that there was really nothing to be said against our

policy.
    We found Lord Grey a most agreeable guest, con
firming my old doctrine that we can never know each
other well until we have lived with each other in a
Icountry house. Lord Grey was no doubt much en

grossed in politics, and, so far as could see, he had no
interest in any of the physical sciences. But in scenery,
in forestry, in farming, and in some branches of
natural history, he had all the enjoyment of a very eager

1853-54]     BATTLE OF THE ALMA                                 487

Inature. It was with

with some alarm, that
                   Iamsauwsehmimenlti,mbpuintg         confess   also
                                                                lame
                                                     with his

leg on the top of a precipitous bank on our river, and
casting himself down on the brink, hanging his head
over the steep in order to see a lot of salmon in the clear
Ipool below him.
                                                     made with
   After Lord Grey's visit, during which
Ihim a personal friendship that lasted till his death, my
wife and       paid our annual visit             to  my Hebridean
estates-- a  visit which was always              to  us the special
holiday of the year. But we found that we could not
enjoy it as before. Procul negotiis is a charming idea
when it can be realized, but when our negotia have so
entered into our very souls that they cannot be for
gotten, and when we know that they are pursuing a
headlong course, only out of our sight and hearing,
then rest and enjoyment are impossible. Neither the
briny tides of chrysoprase which are always rushing
round the shores of Iona, nor the crystal streams of
fresh water which carry sea-trout and salmon up into
the very bosom of the volcanic hills of Mull, nor the
columnar front of  Swtaefsfta--, cnaotncehinogf  steadfastly the ocean
sunsets from the                                  these things, which
had hitherto always laid for me the troubles of business
or of politics, could now avail to keep my mind from
those distant shores of Europe, where a terrible struggle

Iwas going on in which had a share of responsibility.

I knew that any day might bring news of a great
triumph or of some great catastrophe, either of which
might involve immediate Cabinet meetings and new
resolves, not less responsible than those which had gone
before. We therefore returned to Inveraray on the
18th of September. On the 22nd of September we
heard of the landing of the united armies on the
Crimea, but not till the 2nd of October did we hear of
the Battle of the Alma, fought on the 20th September ;
and at the same time came a false report that Sebas-
topol itself had been taken, after a sanguinary contest.
Although this second report was by no means univer-

488       'THE FOUR POINTS'                                                [chap, xxn

sally believed, it had a great effect in increasing the
excitement due to the really splendid victory of the
Alma, and the general expectation was that Sebas-
topol was sure to fall within a few days.
When men's minds are subject to a condition
of excited and confident expectation, occurrences of

small importance may inflame them further. In this
case one such occurrence had a considerable effect.
We had no two armies to send anywhere. But we
had two fleets, and we had sent one to the Baltic to see

what could be done by ships to damage Russia. The
chief arsenals of Russia were found to be impregnable
to fleets. But the small Aland Islands, which had been
fortified by Russia, were easily accessible to the fire of
ships. They were accordingly attacked. The forts

were said to be built of granite. It turned out, however,
that not the walls, but only the facing of them, was
granite. Our fire shook the casing loose, and tumbled
it into the sea. The walls were then pulverized by our
guns, and the fort became untenable. We landed
French troops, and Bomarsund was taken. Men
immediately jumped to the conclusion that what ships
had done at Bomarsund, ships could also do at Sebas-
topol, and even so calm and judicial a mind as that of
Lord Aberdeen found in the episode of the Baltic fort
a ground for increased confidence in the speedy fall of
Sdeenbcaestothproela. tenTehdetopboelitsiecraiol use.ffecItt  of this overconfi-
                                                              prevailed through
out the whole month of October, almost universally in
the press, and to a large extent in the Government. We
were all busy counting our chickens before they were
hatched,  dcoonwsiuthltinSgebeaasctohpootl h--erwhaentdheorurtoalklieeesp  what
were to                                                                            we
                                                                            it or   to
destroy it, or to winter the united armies there with a
view to further operations next year. Nothing was
heard of terms of peace, because nothing was thought
of them, although it was at least possible that the fall
of Sebastopol might give us all we had professed to
fight for. This condition of things gave me great con

1853-54]  LETTER TO LORD CLARENDON                                          489

cern. No one had been more bored than myself by
what Clarendon called ' the eternal Four Points.'

INeither was any one of us more disgusted than was
with Austria for sitting idly by when we were fighting
her battle in the East of Europe. But the nearer we
seemed to be to the point of securing a great decisive
success, the more it seemed to me were we bound to
I--comasetotothsoemoebjuencdtserfsotrawndhiincgh  -- at least, among
                                                  we were fighting.   ourselves
                                                                        Accord
ingly, wrote the following letter to Clarendon in this
sense, to be circulated among my colleagues :

                                                                ' London,

' My dear Clarendon,                                            'October, 1854.

          ' I have a strong feeling that the members of the Cabinet

should come to some understanding more definite than exists at

present as to what we ought to set before ourselves as the aim and

object of this war, and, consequently, what we should demand, or
accept, as a satisfactory conclusion of it.

  ' There is a reluctance, I think, to entertain this question from

several different feelings.

   ' First, we are apt to think that it is not a very pressing

question, that events are now beyond our control, and that we
must await their result.

    ' Next, we pay, perhaps, too much regard to a loose and excited
state of public feeling, which is as yet jealous and suspicious of the
very name of peace.

   ' Lastly, there may be some feeling that the question is difficult

and delicate, as touching on the different tendencies which exist

amongst ourselves.

   ' As regards the first of these feelings, it is true, of course, that
no conclusion on our part, however definite, as to the terms of

peace can command the attainment of them, or can prevent the
variations depending on events. But it is equally true that the

want of any such understanding goes far to make any peace

impossible by confusing our  ideas                of   present  policy and  cionucrreseas"ingin
the uncertainty of events.                        let  things   take their
                             To "

war means to let war feed upon and perpetuate itself. Events are

490      LETTER TO LORD CLARENDON                  [chap, xxn

never so completely beyond our guidance as when we make no

attempt to use the means at our disposal for their control.
   ' Then, as regards the excitement of public feeling, we are bound

to have opinions and principles of our own, and not to swim merely

with the stream. Public opinion will never be led so long as it is
simply followed. I have a firm conviction that, if the Government
knows its own mind clearly and acts accordingly, it will be

supported by the good sense of the English people.

  ' With respect to the last of the feelings I have mentioned-- if
it exists at all--the sooner it is removed the better. We owe it to
Europe that, if there be any real difference of opinion among

ourselves as to the aim and object of this war, the exact amount
of that difference should be known and weighed. Otherwise it will

extend and widen. There will be discrepancies of language, and

even if we escape seeing each other positively committed to oppo

site conclusions, the result will be a vagueness and uncertainty
which cannot fail both to prolong the war and to deprive us of all

guidance over its course and its result.

  ' On these grounds I venture to think that, although the time is

not come for committing ourselves in any formal way to any given

terms of peace, it is come for arriving at some conclusion amongst

ourselves what we should demand and what we should be willing

to accept.
   ' We have already consented to name four indispensable objects

to be effected, and we have secured the recorded opinion of Europe

in favour of their necessity and justice.

' We have guarded ourselves by saying that we consider these as

outlines and no more ; and we have expressly warned Austria that,

when peace comes to be actually negotiated, the filling-in of these

outlines may involve conditions much more stringent than at first

sight may appear to be implied in them.

  ' It was quite right to speak thus guardedly in reference to a

contingency which is perhaps remote ; but amongst ourselves, and

for our own guidance, we can afford to look matters a little more
         in the face. It is the
closely   of the " Four Points "  more necessary   to do so as our
shyness                           has grown into   a disposition to

shake ourselves free from them altogether, and to consider them as

no longer bounding, even in outline, the field of our desires. Is

this a progress in the right or wrong direction ?

1853-64]            THE FOUR GREAT PRINCIPLES                                             491

   ' Let us         look, then, at the             "soFomuurchBas"esc."ondAitiuosntsria"  calls them
Principles.            They are not                                                       as general

principles, which subsequent "conditions" must be devised and

directed to secure. These conditions will admit of great variety

and extension as the events of war enable us to dictate or impose
them. This is true even with respect to the most definite among
them. For example, the free navigation of the Danube may be

secured by depriving Russia of less, or more, or the whole of her

former territories at its mouth and on its banks. Again, the
                                     1840 "in
rpeovwiseiron"  of  the Treaty of                       the interest of the balance of
                in                   has been           already spoken of as implying
                    those countries

a limitation of the Russian naval power in the Black Sea. This,

again, may be extended to the extinction of that naval power, and

this may be secured by the cession of Sebastopol or of the whole

Crimea, or simply by the destruction of Sebastopol as a fortress.

IButgarlel atthebsaesesa,reorco"npdoitiniotns,s",  the largest of  which falls within     the
                                                   to which they   have reference.
two
    ' do not contend, therefore, that the Cabinet ought to make

up even its own mind, far less commit the country, as to the extent
                                                    it
dtoemwahnidchaswetom"aycounldtiimtioantesly"  find      possible   or wise to stretch     our
                                              such  as  these.
    ' But I think we are called upon to make up our minds whether

the Four Great Principles or Bases themselves (without reference

to the conditions necessary to secure them) do or do not represent
and embrace all that constitutes the legitimate end and object of

this war.

  I' That object conceive to be to resist now, and stop effectually

for the future, the designs and progress of Russia towards dominion

in the East of Europe.
   ' This is an object great enough to satisfy our ambition and to

fulfil our policy. It is large enough to require all our exertions to

secure, specific enough to be easily understood, just enough and

needful enough to insure the sanction and, ultimately, the support

of Europe.
    ' Is there, then, any other object larger and wider which we
ought to aim at? If there be, let us define it to ourselves as
Ifclearly as we can.
                      there is not, let us not be insensibly involved

in others before we know what they are, or how they are to be

attained.

492            LETTER TO LORD CLARENDON            [chap, xrn

  ' Are we to prosecute this war till Russia is dismembered ? I
have great doubts whether this would be desirable, if it could be

done to-morrow. But supposing it to be so, what prospect have

we of doing it, and what support are we likely to have in trying it ?
   ' But, short of the total dimemberment of Russia, ought we to

direct the war to the separation of Finland or the re-establishment

of Poland ?
   ' There may be much to be said for both of these propositions ;
but it appears to me that they are both of them results in which

England has a comparatively distant interest. The naval power

which the ports of Finland give to Russia increases her formidable-

ness to the Scandinavian States, but they can never enable her to

contend on equal terms with either France or England. As we

are not fighting, however, for any special interests of our own, this

objection is not, perhaps, very strong. But there is much doubt

whether Finland, even if temporarily wrested, could be permanently

Ifheld against the great military opportunities of Russia.   it is

   ' In respect to Poland, the idea is at best a vague one.

for the interest of anyone that Poland should be reconstituted, it

is probably for the interest of the German people. But it is
questionable whether they think so, and it is certain that their
Governments do not. It can hardly be supposed that we can do

Iit without the consent of the German Powers ; and apprehend

that our hope of that consent being given must depend on the

probability of a previous revolution in their systems of government.
   ' Are these, then, objects which we ought to set before ourselves

as justifying an indefinite prolongation of war, or, rather, are they

possibilities which ought to restrain us from laying down to

ourselves more distinctly when and on what terms we should be

bound to accept of peace ?
'There is one other object of the war which I saw lately pro
                                                   It was the resistance
claimed by an  M.P.  of some ability and note.  "
of despotism,        the relief of oppressed       nationalities." One
               and

effect of a want of definiteness in the language of the Government

will be that this sort of nonsense will be encouraged. Discussion

on the objects of the war, without guidance from something like

authority, will be taken up by different parties in a popular

assembly, each bidding against each other in claptrap sayings.

In the presence of distinct views on the part of the Government,

1853-54]    ATTITUDE OF AUSTRIA                                        493

these are harmless comparatively, but in the absence of such views

they have a real effect in committing the country and embarrassing

its interests and its policy.

  ' It appears to me that the Four Bases are good and sufficient as

such, that  they are large   and wide    etnoou"gchontdoitaiollnosw'"  for any amount
of change   or of extension  in respect                                which, humanly

speaking, the events of even the most successful war can place

within our reach. My belief is that, if we adhere to them, we shall

yet have plenty of fighting to secure them. There is more prob

ability that by insisting on them all we shall necessitate a long
course of war, than that by failing to insist on others we shall too
early, or too easily, secure a peace. We don't sufficiently consider

how great is the change which these bases will effect, how strong

and deep is the current of events which it is their object to dam
back or turn aside. Russia will not, and cannot, sacrifice the gains
and the policy of centuries in the East of Europe without a

'Idesperate struggle.

      should not have troubled you with this letter if I did not
Ithink that the want of such an understanding as have suggested

has an immediate and injurious effect on what we are doing and

saying from day to day.
   ' The Four Bases represent, all of them, interests which are clearly

European. Such they can be shown to be, and as such they can
be urged together as a whole. But some of them have a more
immediate bearing than others on the interests of individual Powers.

For example, the freedom of the Danube and the abolition of

Russian protectorate in the Principalities are most immediately

connected with German and Austrian interests. Yet they are all

closely connected together as one whole, and unless they are all

attained no one of them will be secure. Thus we have a lever
whereby to move Austria, and to hold at least the convictions of
the rest of Germany. To secure what they want themselves, they

must help us to secure what has a large bearing upon Europe.
But what is the effect of our shyness in refusing to specify these

bases as our aim and object? Why, that Austria is already

drawing distinctions between the two Bases which are German and

the other two which are not German, or are German only to a less
degree. We are positively in danger of throwing her back from
the position she had been induced to take, and this in spite of her

494         LETTER TO LORD CLARENDON                                  [chap, xxn

own convictions ; for the Austrian reply to Prussia proves that she

sees clearly enough that the two bases which interest her most

nearly are not, and cannot be, secured permanently unless the
other two are secured also -- unless, that is to say, all claims of

protectorate over the Greek subjects of the Porte be abandoned

everywhere as well as in the Principalities, and unless Russian

power be effectually curtailed on the shores and waters of the

Euxine.
If' there be any fifth basis required, by all means let it be laid
down and considered. What I dread is our going on without some
purpose more definitely recognised --afraid of public opinion,
because we do not try to lead and guide it ; shy of each other,
Ibecause we do not know exactly each other's views.
                                                                      do not

believe there is any difference which will prevent a practical

conclusion, provided we try to come to it. But there is quite
ifenough variety of tendency and of feeling, we do not try, to keep
Iour language various and our course unsteady --perhaps               ought

rather to say, to prevent any definite course from being shaped at
all. We shall then be at the mercy of tides, and our motion

becomes  a  mere       Idraimft,.
                    '
                                   my  dear  Clarendon,  yours  very  sincerely,

                                                                      ' Argyix."

It is quite curious how certain we all were up to the
end of October that Sebastopol must fall when our
siege-train could be brought to bear. Not one military
man nor one civilian seemed to have the smallest idea
of the resisting power of well-planned and well-manned
fortifications in the hands of such a masterly engineer
as the Russians possessed in Todleben. This was
quite a new lesson in the art of war. When Palmerston
had spoken to me so confidently, at the time we
ordered the expedition, he referred to the case of a
fortress invested. But Sebastopol never was invested.
            marched                round it, indeed, after      the Alma, but
We    had   only a '               flank march,' made to        reach a vacant
this  was
h arbour. We never had enough men to invest the
place on the north side. Consequently, its communi
cations with Russia were always open, and fresh men

1853-54]  SEBASTOPOL NOT INVESTED  495

and fresh supplies could be constantly poured in.
Our fleets did all that was possible to stop the supplies
from the Sea of Azof. Wonders were done there by
the zeal and courage of our naval officers. But the
main route on the north side was always open, and we
relied alone on bombardments, followed by assaults.

CHAPTER XXIII

1854

DIFFICULTIES IN THE CRIMEA-- LORD RAGLAN -- BILL

              FOR ENLISTMENT OF FOREIGN TROOPS

Curiously enough, our first Cabinet after a con
siderable interval was held on the 17th of October,
the very day on which all our siege-guns and all our
Iships first opened a combined fire upon Sebastopol.
  went up to London to attend the Cabinet, and was
not displeased to find that it had been summoned to
consider renewed overtures from Austria for a closer
alliance. This was all in the direction of my own
Iviews, as expressed in the Memorandum above men

tioned. But soon found myself in line with two
powerful allies who could not be resisted. The first
was the French Emperor, who somewhat suddenly
conceived a great desire to be in alliance with Austria.
At home we had to contend with a very strong, but a
very irrational prejudice. Among the tides of passion
which surged at this time through the British people,
one of the strongest was a democratic hatred of Austria
as one of the leading members of the old Holy Alliance.
One of the most violent cries against Aberdeen in the
Tory press was that which regarded him as Austrian
in his sympathies. So vulgar and so violent were the
articles at this time against him, that he had alluded
to them recently in one of his letters to me, and in my
I Ir' eWplhya, tonlhyaavefesweendaoyfsthbeefOorpepotshitisionCapbainpeetr,s had said :
                                                                           is so stupid
as well as so discreditable that it appears to me very
harmless. The personal turn which politics have taken

496

1854] ADVERSITY AS AN ALLY 497

since the break-up of the old party divisions has led
to very disgraceful results, and in no point more dis
graceful than in the perpetual and malignant attacks
upon you individually by those who entreated you to
join them when they could hardly do without you.'
Nevertheless, such gusts of political passion and pre
judice, however contemptible in themselves, have an
Iappreciable effect even upon those who despise them,

and doubt whether Aberdeen himself, with all his
resolute love of truth, would have thought it wise at
that moment to              renewed negotiations with
                  propose   a great help to me, and to
Austria. It was  therefore
others who agreed with me, to find our view taken up
by our powerful ally the French Emperor, and to find
also that, at a second Cabinet on the 20th, sensible
progress was made towards an agreement with Austria
which could not fail to lead to some more definite under
standing as to our final objects in the war.
   But the time was now coming when another ally
besides the French Emperor was to enter an appearance
on our behalf. This was an ally, indeed, which we

would gladly have done without. It was adversity.
We had all been too excited, and too confident of
immediate success. And yet it is forgotten now what
good grounds we had up to the 17th of October for the
most sanguine expectations. We had sent out the
largest army which had ever been despatched from the
shores of England. We had conveyed it, and also
many of our French allies, in a magnificent fleet of
armed vessels and of transports. We had landed it
without a hitch on the shores of an enemy 3,000 miles
away. We had accompanied it with a heavy siege-
train and 4,000 horses. We had encountered our

enemy in a pitched battle on his own ground and
behind his own entrenchments, and we had defeated

him completely. We had marched round the great
fortress unopposed, and had seized an important har
bour, furnishing a secure naval base for whatever future
operations mightfbe required. The whole fleet of our
vol. i.
                            32

498           DIFFICULTIES IN THE CRIMEA     [chap, rsm

enemy was beneath the sea. Both our naval and our
military departments had thus really done wonders,
and we had every reason to be proud of them. Yet,
just at this moment, began a series of events which
brought upon us unexpectedly loss, sorrow, terrible
Ifanxiety, and well-nigh disaster. Few changes of
horizon have ever been more complete.               on the

17th of October, when we were reluctantly turning
our thoughts to peace, we had been able to hear and
to see what was then going on at the seat of war, we
should have heard with something like dismay, from
morning till night, the baffled roar of those ineffectual
guns on which we had all been counting so surely for

the reduction of the fortress. But this bitter disap
pointment was not all that was in store for us. Only
eight days after our Cabinet, our army was attacked
from behind Balaclava, and suffered severely in re
pulsing the   attack. The loss included a           part of
our cavalry.                                 large   before
                 It really looked as if our  army
Sebastopol, instead of investing the fortress, was itself
to be invested on all sides, and swept into the sea.
Then, again, only ten days later, on the misty morning
of November 5th, we were attacked by a large and
fresh Russian army, advancing from the north. For a
time it went hard with our scanty battalions, and a
great disaster was only prevented by the extraordinary
pluck of our men and the timely succour of our allies
the French. This was Inkerman. And, again, when
our ranks had been seriously thinned and overworked,
came the dreadful gale of November 6th, in which
many vessels that carried stores for the army were
lost, and this at a time when it became clear that the
hardest work would be needed for preparing winter
quarters in the Crimea.
Our army is so drawn from every class and rank
in the nation, that in any great war death is liable to
enter every kind of home. And at this time of great
public anxiety it did enter ours. My wife's younger
brother, Lord Frederick Leveson-Gower, a youth of

1854]                 BALACLAVA                                     499

great amiability and elevation of character, had re
cently entered the Rifle Brigade, and embarked with
his regiment for the East. He was naturally delicate,
and in the unhealthy camp of Varna he contracted
fever. His billet for the Crimea was in a common
transport, where he could have neither suitable food
nor accommodation. When the fleet of ships and
transports anchored near the Crimea, poor Frederick
Gower was very ill and low. The skipper found his
vessel near H.M.S. Bellerophon, commanded by Lord
George Paulett, to whom he sent a message informing
him that a son of the Duke of Sutherland was ill on
board his ship. Lord George at once sent his own
barge, and brought Frederick to his ship, where he
tended the invalid with every care. But it was too
late to save his life, and he died shortly after, and
was buried in   the   Black Sea. This sad event
reach our ears        the first days of November.            dIitd  not
                till                                                was

a great shock to the Duchess of Sutherland, and my
wife at once went off to Dunrobin when she heard of
the misfortune.
The first twenty-four days of the month of November
were days of intense anxiety and suspense. Our com
mthuronuicgahtioBnuschwairtehst.theItCrtiomoeka
                                                  were very   slow, chiefly
                                                 between a   fortnight and

three weeks before any authentic accounts could ever
Rrfleyoaitcnhhgscauhcsi.rldosss,BuaEtnudrompoeteha--nerwsthh--irloeaullgahlml oEsrmoerbtsoarsoslfieessrsu, mtahogrugorrusagvhacatitmnhgee
our misfortunes, and some of them revealing what the
Russians had hoped to achieve by their grand assault
at Inkerman. The Charge of the Light Brigade on
the 25th of October was one of the few misfortunes
which turned out less than we had feared. The ex

planation did not reach us till November 12th. It was

not till the 15th that we heard the details of Inkerman,
and a week later before we got Lord Raglan's private
letters telling        that we must              send to him any men
we could spare.  us                              to give here the words
                      It may be well

                                                             32--2

500  LORD RAGLAN                               [chap, xnn

which I find in my political journal, as expressing our

feelings at the moment : ' On the 5th November,
instead of our assaulting Sebastopol, as had been con
templated, we were attacked by greatly superior forces,
but after a desperate contest repulsed the enemy, with
tremendous loss to them, but great loss also to our

selves. It is felt that this cannot last, and that we
are in danger of sinking under the weight of such

bloody triumphs.' In order to comply with Raglan's
requisitions, we needed the leave of Parliament to call
out the militia for garrison duty, and therefore, on
November 24th, at a Cabinet, we determined to summon
Parliament for the 12th of December. Palmerston was
at the time on a visit to Paris, where he was, of course,
in communication with the French Government, and
it was not reassuring to us to find that the buoyant
confidence which had been so much too great at first
had now entirely given way, and that he wrote with
much anxiety about the position of our army.
In Lord Raglan's private letters the gallant old
man did not breathe one word of abandoning the
enterprise. But he did tell us that, at a council
of war upon the 6th, they had determined to spend
every effort, in the first place, in defensive works,
awaiting reinforcements. This spoke volumes. Our
army had become visibly and obviously inadequate

for the work, and in the meantime at least it had
to give up the idea of assaulting its enemy, and
to be content with defending itself. Meantime no
time was lost in sending men. Another battalion of
the Guards was sent out on the same day, and the
Prince Consort went to Portsmouth to see them off.
  It was at this moment  otfhautnivI ehrsaadl
                                               depression, not
unaccompanied by alarm,                        my first oppor
tunity of seeing the high spirit and courage of the
Queen. There are some people who are cheerful when
others are sad, only because of a want of knowledge or
of thought. But this was impossible at Windsor.
The Queen and the Prince Consort knew everything

1854]    VIEWS ABOUT CAPTURE OF SEBASTOPOL  501

and thought of everything connected with the critical
situation of public affairs. Admirable papers came
from the Prince, full of suggestions on the best means of
strengthening the military resources of the country,
many of which were adopted by the War Office. Yet,
Ion a visit to Windsor for a couple of days, on the

27th of November, was struck by the Queen's high
bearing under the anxieties of the time. She was
proud of the courage and tenacity shown by her army
during the recent battle, and spoke of the pleasure
she had had in writing personally to Lord Raglan,
both after the Alma and again, on sending the Field-
Marshal's baton, after Inkerman. There was no sign
of depression about the Queen, but a cheerful confi
dence that her army and her navy would yet recover
Iour position.

   When at Windsor, first heard from Lord Aberdeen
IwathsiistcohtrhyIatwhhwaivhcehenahloawudarybasermeenny,treearltfaatteienrdetdheelstheRewuhsgesrriaee,natebrsoutut tdaoubupoboutn.t
the Alma, made the famous flank march round the
fortress to the north, in order to seize and occupy the
naval base of Balaclava, it would have been possible,
and even easy, to occupy Sebastopol itself, whilst the
Russian  aIrtmnye, vienr   a panic, had  retreated out of the
Crimea.                   has seemed to  me really credible that
so important a fortified arsenal should have been left
quite open and unfortified on its rear face, although, of
Icourse, it is true that all the probabilities of attack
were from the sea.        have been always suspicious of
the stories on this matter which have since been attri

buted to our gallant foes, the officers of the Russian
garrison. Splendid as their defence was, they were
beaten at last, and it is always a temptation to the
Ifvanquished to say to the victors : ' What fools you
were !   you had but known our situation after the
Alma, you might have assaulted and taken Sebastopol
as an open town, when you took us so completely by
surprise in your march from the Alma to Balaclava.'

502 LORD RAGLAN

It does not at all follow, of course, that Raglan was
wrong in declining to make the experiment, because we
now were told that it would probably have been suc

cessful.
   As regards our part in the story, Lord Aberdeen
had the best means of knowing the truth, and that
part is what our other Generals thought and said on
the occasion. According to the information Aberdeen
received, Lord Raglan was advised to make the direct
assault on Sebastopol by General Cathcart, one of the
most distinguished Generals in the army, and whose
death was one of the greatest losses we suffered at
Inkerman. His information, further, was that Raglan
was dissuaded from the attempt by the advice of
General Burgoyne, the head of the artillery, who
Iassured Lord Raglan that his guns, when once opened,
would reduce the place in three days.                                   have no doubt
of the truth of this anecdote, not only because Aberdeen
had at that moment access to the most authentic
information, but still more because of the perfect con
sistency of the narrative with all the preceding and
all the succeeding facts. Burgoyne's perfect confi
dfeelntceininalhlisthgeunms wiliatsarbyutdtehpearretmfleecnttiosn--oaf  the confidence
                                                                        confidence on
which our own in the expedition as a whole was
founded. Our      Wgraear tOpfofiwceer.hadIttainkeclnudpeadinssomtoe    supply
a siege-train of                                                        eighty-
three guns of the largest calibre, and the universal

expectation was that it would pulverize any fortifica
tion that it could command from a reasonable range.
             advice to Raglan           psltaryicetdly--aacgcaomrdeinogf
Burgoyne's                         was
to the game  as it was intended  to be
                            assaults. We none of
bombardments followed by     Sebastopol by a fluke                      --us
had ever thought of taking
rushing it through a back-door left open. No blame
whatever, therefore, can be attached to Burgoyne and
Raglan for declining to try an experiment which might
be futile, and which, if not successful, would certainly
be dangerous. But let us observe the light which

1854]   DISORGANIZATION AT BALACLAVA                        503

Burgoyne's confidence in his siege-train threw upon
the events which followed. When the army got round
to Balaclava, they spent their whole time and strength

in getting up the siege-train into position in trenches
at the front. Before this could be accomplished, no
less than twenty-seven days had passed from the
Battle of the Alma, and twenty-one days from the
assurance which Burgoyne had given to Raglan.

Then came the great promised bombardment of the
17th October, which turned out to be utterly ineffectual.
Then followed another interval of a fortnight, during
which the army was preparing for a second bombard
ment, interrupted by a dangerous attack on our naval
base of Balaclava on October 25th, and finally put an
end to  by the  still more dangerous       attack    otfimInek--ermmoarne
on the  4th of  November. During           all this
than a month -- there was no time or thought expended
on fortifications much needed to defend ourselves, and
no work done in establishing good roads between our
only base for all supplies and the trenches.
With that long interval of time expired the long
tract of fine weather with which we had been favoured.
With the hurricane of November 6th that weather
broke up, and the bare uplands to which we had dragged
our             supplies became an impassable sea of
     guns and   the whole secret of our subsequent    mud.
In   this lies                                         mis

fortunes. The magnificent apparatus of men and of
transport, of guns and of provisions, which had made
the expedition                             success up to
victory on the  Alsmucah--aall  splendid   in the hands of  the
                                was still                   our
Generals and of our Admirals. The whole littoral of
the Black Sea, and all the resources of the great capital
of Constantinople, were within easy reach of our
ships and vessels of all kinds. Surely the organization
which had landed such an army, and had gained such
a battle as the Alma, and had such an absolute com
mand of the sea, was competent to keep that army in
comfort as to food and clothing for an indefinite time,

if necessary. Such had been our calculation, and we

504                  LORD RAGLAN                         [CHAP, tytti

were right. This was the combination of conditions
which did bring all things round at last. But it was
only at last, after an interval of time during which our
army almost perished. Nothing that Raglan could do
for himself when he awoke to his position, after Inker-
man on the 4th, and  after       hurricane               the  --14ctohulodf
November --nothing    that  the  could do            on  him
                            we                      for
make up for the waste of the precious days of fine
weather, when good roads ought to have been made
between Balaclava and the camp, and when an ample
supply of baggage animals ought to have been provided
for the necessary carriage. Meantime, for some weeks
our army was undermanned and overworked, underfed
and insufficiently clothed, exposed to cold and wet,
without fuel. England was flooded with letters from
the camp and from correspondents of the press, giving
in terrible detail the sufferings of our brave soldiers,
whose pluck and tenacity at Inkerman were really
nothing compared with their endurance in the trenches.
   Excited as the public mind had been before with

the confident expectations of victory, it was corre
spondingly excited  now                             feelings of grief
and astonishment    and  inbdyigcnoanttioenn.ding'  Whom shall we
hang ?' is always the public cry under the shock of great
calamities, the complex causes of which people are

wholly unable to understand. In our case, political
asperities had been for some time unusually violent
and bitter, and any apparent failure on our part was
visited with unusual directness on the head of the
Government, because he it was who had rendered

possible that fusion of parties  Itwhwicahs  was so hateful   to
the disintegrated factions.                   not difficult   to

foresee what would be the result of facing Parliament
at a moment of such reverses and of only too possible

disaster.
There are few things that would be more repugnant
IIto me than to write a single line which could be unfair
to the memory of Lord Raglan.     was then, and am

still, more sensible than most men of the noble associa

1854]         LORD RAGLAN                                                505

tions inseparable from the name of Fitzroy Somerset.
They were associations all redolent of the great Duke.
IAnd so was the man. Not in his case only, but at

least in one other case, had observed the expression
and    the bearing acquired by men who had been                          habitu
       living in that illustrious companionship.
ally                                                                     It was
as if something of the strength and of the power of
Itheir great chief had passed into their demeanour and
their faces.  had seen this in my boyhood in the case
of Sir George Murray, the Quartermaster-General of the

IDuke throughout his wonderful campaign in the Penin

sula, and had noted it still more markedly in Fitzroy
Somerset, who was his military secretary. When we
were face to face with a great war, after a peace of nearly
forty years, we had no new Generals of known capacity,
and we had to fall back on the survivors of the school
of Wellington. Of those, Fitzroy Somerset was the
most distinguished, and although well advanced in
years, he accepted the duty to which we called him, in

the spirit of his great master. In that duty there was
one peculiarity for which, above all others, he had pre
eminent qualifications. Our army was to act in alli
ance with a French force greatly superior to our own
in numbers. The Generals of the second French Empire
were rather an unknown body of men, so the task of
dealing with them was in the highest degree difficult
and delicate. Fitzroy Somerset was the very man for
that. His noble presence, his dignified and courteous
manners, and his calm and resolute character, all re

iwnefoigrchetdofthheishrisetpouritcatisopnl.endIoturwaosf  his services  and the
                                                           well known    that he

did not himself much approve of the enterprise against

Sebastopol. But when he did undertake it, he carried
it into execution with all the determination which he
met in our splendid Admiral Sir Edmund Lyons. His
landing of the army on the enemy's coast was beautifully
effected. His victory on the Alma was brilliant and
complete. His sudden flank march round and behind
Sebastopol to seize Balaclava Harbour was universally

506                        LORD RAGLAN               [CHAP. XXIII

lauded at the time as one of the finest strategic move
dmoenI trsetmheamt hbaedr                            General. Well
                           ever been devised by any  lifting his two
                           seeing Lord Lansdowne
hands in the air, as he was wont to do when his
admiration was excited, in token of his unbounded
delight in the narrative of that flank march.

   But if we give Lord Raglan the whole credit of all
those parts of the campaign which were so brilliant
and successful, it is not less due to others to specify

Ithe points of conduct which brought on subsequent
disasters. There is nothing that                     recollect with
greater pain, in the miserable weeks that followed
Inkerman and the hurricane, than Lord Raglan's
silence, in his private letters to us, on the whole subject
of the sufferings of his army in the trenches. When
all England was ringing with the most heart-rending
accounts of the want of food, of clothing, and of fire
wood, under bitter exposure, Lord Raglan's letters
were wholly silent on the subject. He did ask for
reinforcements and for hutting materials, because
these could be supplied from home. But as regards
all other necessary comforts, he knew that the diffi
culty and the block lay in Balaclava itself, and in the
nine miles of muddy roads between it and the camp.
Raglan was not a man to make complaints which he
knew could only lie in his own hands to remedy. The
quays of Balaclava were choked with supplies which
we had sent out, when as yet they could not be carried
to the front, and while our men were being more and
more decimated by want and sickness.
Our Cabinets about this time, although heavily
engrossed with reinforcing the army, were also engaged
a good deal with the old peace negotiations, carried on
through Austria. On the last day of my visit to
Windsor (November 28th) Prince Albert showed me
Ia Memorandum on           this subject which he     had  Idtrawwans
                               was delighted with    it.
up for the Cabinet.
Iindeed a very able paper. It took very much the same

line of argument as had taken in my letter to Claren

1854] TIMIDITY OF AUSTRIA                                         507

don, pointing out that the Four Points, however vague
and indefinite, were large enough to cover and include
everything that we could desire in any possible terms
of peace, and insisting on the high value attaching to
our concurrence with the German Powers in a general

definition of our aims. At a Cabinet on the 1st Decem
ber we had an important discussion on a draft despatch
Ito Austria, defining what we meant by the Four Points.
  succeeded in cutting out a paragraph which professed
to disclaim on the part of the allies any desire to
establish for themselves a protectorate in Turkey
Isuch as we had been condemning on the part of Russia.
   maintained that the fourth of our points distinctly
held out to the Christians of Turkey that they would
find in the four Powers compensation for any protec
torate of Russia alone, and that it would be breaking
faith with them not to avow our wish and determina
Ition to secure for them their privileges.
                                                                  objected
also to      the passage     tohningthseesgsreonutniadllythdaisttinitct.dreIwt
parallel     between two                                                        a
                                                                                is

one thing for one Power to claim such a protectorate
exclusively for itself as the basis of further claims and
designs, and quite another thing for United Europe to
declare its common interest in the conditions of Chris
         in
tianIts  is  Turkey.                 to me to have found          this
             a great satisfaction
             inItmpyropvoelsiticthaal tjotuhrenaalrgoufm1e8n54t,  and to record
Ipassage                                                            advanced in

it here.
later years regarding the duties towards the Christians
Iin the East involved in our opposition to Russia was an

argument which brought before my colleagues in the
Aberdeen Cabinet, and which they unanimously ac
cepted, modifying in accordance with it the documents
which were to be the foundations of the ultimate Peace
of  IPtarwisastwoat
                     years   later.  that an incident
                       this   time                                occurred
which we all thought significant, but of which
we could make no possible use. Clarendon had sent
a British officer to visit and report upon the Austrian

508    PEACE NEGOTIATIONS                                 [CHAP. XXIII

army which had occupied the Danubian provinces
evacuated by the Russians. This officer found the
Austrians full of admiration of the Russian army,
                                 of the   comparative inferiority of
and    spoewank.ingIffretheilsy  feeling  was prevalent and deep-
their
seated, it was enough to account for the shabby politics
of the Cabinet of Vienna. On the other hand, whilst
it explained the difficulties we were encountering at
Vienna, what light               did   it not   throw on  the
policy of the war ?                            even then  was  general
                                 If   Russia                   a name
of fear to Austria, how completely dominant would
she be over the whole of Eastern Europe if she were
allowed to absorb into her vast dominions the shores

of the Danube and the Bosphorus ?
So far we had done well in the Cabinet as regards
the comfort of our discussions and our perfect good-
fellowship, even in the midst of difficult questions.
Since the quarrel between Lord John Russell and
Palmerston on the subject of Reform, the one great
centre of disturbance amongst us had suppressed its
uhfiranedisv,enrosaanfleda, crsoansosfetanhnteyporqesuntepesowtniaoelndofotofinttRheeerfnoaerlmndstorwiffaest.henIowtwawr,absyI,
therefore, with immense surprise that, on my return
Ito London after a few days' visit to the Suther-

lands at Trentham, found a Cabinet box in circula
tion, full of correspondence between Aberdeen and Lord
John Russell, in which Lord John made the demand
that the Duke of Newcastle should be removed and
Palmerston put in his place at the War Office. Of
course, this was an open assumption on the part of
Lord John of the functions of the Prime Minister.
There was no pretence for dismissing the Minister
under whom our army had been organized, and had
won the three great victories of Alma, Balaclava, and
Inkerman. Aberdeen, therefore, although treating
the proposal with temper and dignity, held firmly to
a definite refusal, and ended by telling Lord John
that he must absolutely decline to advise the Queen

1854]  LORD JOHN RUSSELL                                         509

to take any such course. Lord John said he would
appeal to the Cabinet.
On the 6th of December there was a Cabinet dinner

at Aberdeen's house. When business began, Aberdeen
said he had circulated the correspondence with Lord

John, and he had nothing to add. But he did add one
observation, which was that from some things Lord
John had said it seemed clear that his objections really
pointed not to a change in the departments, but to a

change in the head of the Government ; that if Lord
John could get the Cabinet, or any Cabinet, to join
him, he (Aberdeen) would not stand for a moment in
his way ; that he had not wished to keep his present
place, but had felt the difficulty of getting out of it,
now as much as ever, or more than ever, and he was

quite ready to go if he could see his way to any other
combination. Lord John, in defending his own case,
had not a word to say against the Minister whose
removal he demanded, and under whom the British
army had just won victories, pronounced to be glorious
days in its history by so competent a judge as Fitzroy

Somerset. All he said was that he felt uncomfortable
in his position as a leader whom nobody followed ;
that he could not get any of his measures passed through
the House ; that he thought the War Minister ought
to be in the House of Commons, and that the office

should be held by  Palmerston.  --tChoensiAddemrinigralttyha--t  the
other great War    Department                                    was
represented in the House by a Minister who was at
Lord John's left hand in the Commons, and was one
of the most powerful debaters in the House, and that
Palmerston was on his other side to defend the Govern
ment, it did seem unreasonable to insist on the removal

of a colleague against whose administration he himself
had not one word to say.
Palmerston now interfered, and behaved splendidly.
He said that, on the principle laid down by John
Russell, he (Palmerston) ought to be the Minister called
upon to resign, because he had not succeeded in passing

510          PEACE NEGOTIATIONS     [chap, xxm

one single measure of any kind through the House of
Commons during the last session of Parliament. Then,
                                of  the Government, the
as regards the general policy   to  make was that in his
only criticism he was inclined
             expedition to Sebastopol should have  been
opinion the  sooner; but when he had proposed
undertaken                                         this,

Lord John Russell was the Minister who opposed him.
We all intimated our recollection of the truth of this,
whereupon Lord John admitted the fact, but defended
his course upon the ground that, till Russia evacuated
the Principalities, it was dangerous to leave the Turkish
army unsupported. But this was the argument on
which the whole question then turned, and apart from
it there was unanimous agreement. Aberdeen was not
given to jokes in his conversation, still less was he dis
posed to indulge in chaff. But when Palmerston told
us how completely he had failed in legislation in the
previous session, Aberdeen could not resist the comical
aspect of the situation, and he gravely interpolated the
remark that the failure must have been due to the want
of vigour in Palmerston. The laughter raised by this
sally on the part of our generally very solemn chief
lightened the tension due to a very odious dispute,
and as not a single member of the Cabinet said one
word in support of Lord John, he subsided into a
threat that, although he would remain with us during
the approaching December session, he would retire
after it was concluded. Aberdeen protested against
this intimation, but the Cabinet seemed disposed to
hope that Lord John would again change his mind.
   In public affairs at this time the greatest trouble we
had concerned the negotiations with Austria on the
Four Points of a future peace. Our position was
extremely embarrassing, because of the eagerness of
the French Emperor on the subject, and the difficulty
of knowing what he or what Austria really wanted.
My view was that, provided the contemplated treaty
with Austria did not involve any proposal for an
armistice, or for any interruption in our military

1854 J  FOREIGN ENLISTMENT ACT  511

operations, it would be wise and prudent to welcome

any clearer understanding on the ultimate terms of

peace. But there were many risks in a negotiation
carried on indirectly through no less than three Foreign
Offices, with an unavowed reference to a fourth. First
there was France, hot on some scent that we did not
quite understand. Secondly, there was Austria, who
would probably be satisfied with terms of peace but
little satisfactory to us. Thirdly, there was Prussia,
little to be trusted. Then there was Russia, who was
evidently kept aware of everything, and whose sole
aim was to find means of dividing the Western allies.
There was just one satisfaction at this moment : on
our foreign policy there were no divisions among us in
the Cabinet. Our military position made it then im

possible to foresee what we might and what we might

not be able to demand as terms of peace. All we
could do was to keep our course open, and to avoid

ambiguous engagements.
    Our short session of Parliament in December, 1854,

lasted only a fortnight, and was in every way successful.
The only proposal we made which was in any way
critical was a Bill to enable us to raise some foreign
 troops to reinforce our own. Fortunately, this hap

Ipened to be a favourite scheme of Lord John Russell.

    went to the House of Commons to hear him speak,

 which he did extremely well. In the House of Lords

 we had some formidable opposition to encounter. Our

Ichief enemy was not Derby, but Ellenborough, whom

 always thought the finest speaker in the House. His
 forcible diction, his fine delivery, and his apparently
 passionate conviction, were qualities which made him a
 great orator, and we had to endure on this occasion one
 of the finest examples of his power. But nothing

 except oratory could make his argument tolerable. At

 that very moment we were companions-in-arms with
 Frenchmen and with Turkish subjects of every name
 and nation, whilst we were trying our best to enlist in
 the same cause Austrians and Germans, and even

512 BILL FOR ENLISTMENT OF FOREIGN TROOPS [chap, nm

Italians. The war we were waging was essentially a

European war, and why we should not obtain, if we
could, the aid of foreign soldiers, it was impossible to
Iconceive.       had been afraid of the proposal on one
Iground only : felt sure that the ignorant prejudice
against Prince Albert, which had been so violent not
                 weonulilsdtmaetntrtiboufteforteoighnistrionoflpuse.nceI
long   before,                                                            any  pro
posal   for the                                                           was  con

vinced that, although unavowed, this was the feeling
that animated Lord Ellenborough, and which could
alone account for his furious harangue. Some of his
language was very violent, and in the end he denounced
the Bill as ' one insulting to a generous and confiding
Ipeople.' When he sat down none of us rose to reply.

  had never intended to speak on the subject, whilst
Granville had. So the debate languished till Derby
rose in triumph at the close, and condescended to the
use of every kind of claptrap about ' mercenaries ' and
I' declining empires.'  was excited by this speech,
I Iand at once rose when it concluded.  denied em
phatically the truth and justice of his representations,
and pointed out the essentially European character of
this war as fairly entitling us to the auxiliary aid of
other countries. Just as the German Legion had been
called to aid us in driving the French from Spain,
because on that field a great European contest was
being decided, so on the shores of the Crimea another
Isuch contest was being decided also, and Germans,

above all others, were interested in the result. spoke
Iwith energy and effect, and was loudly cheered and

much congratulated when sat down. We won the
day by a majority of twelve, no inconsiderable triumph
over two of the greatest debaters in Parliament.
There was another incident in our debates on this
Bill which gave me great pleasure. On the first day
Lord Lansdowne was ill of gout, and could not be
present. But on the third reading he was able to come
down to the House, and delivered a most forcible and
telling speech on behalf of the measure, of which he

1854]    LORD^LANSDOWNE      513

was a warm supporter. Lansdowne was now generally
regarded as a figure-head in politics, and chiefly useful
as giving a flavour of old Whiggism to the new com
bination which had arisen. But in this speech he came
out full of fire and vigour, and able to bring the
measures and principles of an earlier generation to

Itillustrate and support the necessities of our own time.

     was most interesting to me to hear this speech,
remembering that it came from a man who had been
Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1806, and belonged to

the generation which had heard Pitt and Fox. The

historical review which he gave of the subject was most
important, and we fully expected that it would tell
on the division in the Commons, which was impending
two days later. Accordingly, we triumphed over our
opponents by a majority of thirty-nine. On the
23rd December Parliament adjourned for a month, till
the 23rd January, 1855.

vol. i.                  33

                CHAPTER XXIV

                          1854-55

TROUBLES IN     --THDEECFREIAMTEAO--F RAEBSEIGRNDAETEIONN   OF LORD JOHN
       RUSSELL
                                                           GOVERNMENT--

--FORREMSAIGTINOANTIOONF  MINISTRY BY LORD PALMERSTON
                          OF MR. GLADSTONE, SIR JAMES

GRAHAM, AND MR. SIDNEY HERBERT

The period of thirty -eight days which elapsed between
the end of the session and the date in the next session
Iwhen the Aberdeen Ministry was overthrown was a

period of pain and grief to us, such as remember with
horror, and find it impossible to describe. The splendid
army of over 30,000 men which we had organized, and
had sent out with brilliant success to the Crimea, was
reported to us every week as dying by inches in the
besieging lines. Yet we were kept in complete ignor
ance of the causes. What we did know was that rein
forcements of great strength, and whole flotillas of
supplies, had been poured into Balaclava. The silence
of Lord Raglan was positively excruciating. Nothing
came from  him but the driest              But one         doefgrtehees--e
seemed to  me to be alarming       facts.  highest

                                   in the
namely, this : that our effective force in the Crimea
did not exceed 16,000 men, with about 9,000 in hos
pital. At a Cabinet on the 21st of December Lord
John Russell spoke very gravely about the position of
our army, but nothing he said at that time was free
from the suspicion that he was still looking out for an
occasion to resign on personal grounds, which were
known to all of us. We broke up without coming to

                          514

1854-55]       REINFORCEMENTS                                         515

Iany definite conclusion. Therefore, on the 22nd De

cember, addressed a letter to Aberdeen urging that a
careful estimate should now be made with the French
Government as to the number of men each of us could
send ; that this estimate ought to be sent to our respec
tive Generals, with instructions that they should con
sider the adequacy or inadequacy of the force thus to
be provided, and determine whether the siege should be

prosecuted or abandoned. At the following Cabinet
Palmerston strongly protested against allowing the
Generals on the spot to exercise so large a discretion.
IHe said that such a course would be disgraceful to
France and England.      said that it would be less dis
                         qoufestthieona. rmIy.saidHeitrewjaosinendot  that
graceful than  the loss                                                out
that was out   of the
of the question, from the effects of climate and
sickness. He then admitted that this did require to
be looked to, and this led to a discussion as to what
could be done. Newcastle assured us that all the best
men in the military departments had been sent out
with full powers, and he did not know what else could
be done, unless we were to supersede everybody and
send out some civilian as a dictator. Of course this
was impossible. Newcastle, however, had consulted

Lord Hardinge, who had recommended a good Quarter
master-General, and he had been sent out.
Meantime the War Office and the Admiralty were
straining every nerve to send out reinforcements.
Graham reported to us that he had supplied transport
for 9,000 French troops, and a continuous stream of
vessels was carrying comforts to the army. But in
spite of all this, we felt that it was impossible to
contend with cholera, and on the 13th of January, at
a Cabinet, Newcastle told us seriously that the condition
of our army was now such that a great disaster to our
arms must be contemplated as at least a possible event.

I Ido not know whether Palmerston remembered, as
did, the conversation we had together early in the
month of July, when the Sebastopol expedition had

                                           33--2

516           TBOUBLES EN THE CK1MEA                  [chap. XXIV

been ordered--how I had been full of anxiety, and he
Ihad been still more full of hopeful, confident expecta
Itions. am bound to say that nobody was more vexed
and angry than he was now.             recollect him one day
                       bad account of     the army which
listening to  a very    us -- an account    which was ex
had reached    one of

pressed in the sentence that we were losing a regiment
a week. ' But why should this be ?' said Palmerston,
almost starting to his feet. This was the question we
were all asking, and were all equally defeated in getting
any guidance in reply. A general impression was
gaining ground that in the faculty of organizing Raglan
was deficient. But there was no General of whom we
knew that would be better, whilst Raglan was incom
parable and indispensable in our relations with the
French army, on which depended any hope of getting
some relief to our men by a fairer division of work in
the trenches. Three measures we took during this
dreadful month. We supplied the French army with
transport for their reinforcements ; we did the same for
the Turkish army of Omar Pasha, which, to the extent
of 40,000 men, was conveyed to the Crimea ; and,
lastly, we secured by diplomacy the alliance and active
co-operation of the Sardinian kingdom.
We had three Cabinets, on the 18th, 19th, and 20th.
At all of them Lord John Russell was not only present,
but taking an active part in measures of his own, upon
education and on Church rates, thus giving every
indication of his continuous membership and fellowship
with us. On the 23rd Parliament reassembled. Lord
Grey gave notice of a motion on a reorganization of the
War Office, and Roebuck gave notice of a motion for
inquiring into the causes of the condition of our army
in the Crimea. This last was, of course, a vote of want
of confidence in the Government.
   On the 24th January we had another Cabinet.              I
walked   droowonm,toI  it alone  and   rather early.    On  enter
ing the                          that   Palmerston    was   there,
                        found
and nobody else. As he was not generally more

1854-55]  LORD JOHN RUSSELL RESIGNS                  517

Ithan punctual, was surprised. But the mystery was
soon solved    whIetnwhaes  handed to me a    note,
' Read that.'               a note from Lord  John,  saying,
                                                      telling
Palmerston in three lines that he would hear a letter
from himself read to the Cabinet, and that it was a
painful but necessary step. When all the Cabinet had
assembled, Aberdeen read the letter. Newcastle began
the discussion by offering to resign, as he knew the run
was against him, and the Cabinet could not go on unless
he left the War Department. We all felt that it would
be dishonourable to ourselves to make him our scape
goat for events for which we ought all to share the
responsibility in our several degrees. Sir George Grey,
with a high-mindedness which never failed him, declared
he could not consent to such an unworthy sacrifice of a

colleague. In some discussion of Lord John's act, it
clearly appeared that it was universally condemned by
all his colleagues. He had sent his resignation without
consulting one of them, and late at night, after taking
part in the business of the House. Aberdeen told us
that he received it with very great surprise, as this was
almost the only occasion on which he should have
thought such a course impossible. To desert the friends
with whom he had been acting just at the moment
when they were about to be attacked would indeed
seem a strange course. But whatever we thought,
there was very little said on this part of the subject.
After a long debate on our position, it was decided
that, considering the evil of a weak and crippled
Government, with a great war on hand, it was best
for all of us to resign, and give as our reason what
really decided us in this connection.
Accordingly, Lord Aberdeen went off to Windsor to
inform the Queen of what had happened, and to place
all our resignations in Her Majesty's hands. On the
following day we repaired to Downing Street to hear
the arrangements for giving up our various offices.
Our astonishment was therefore great when Aberdeen
came from Windsor to tell us that we were still Ministers

518 RESIGNATION OF LORD JOHN RUSSELL [chap, xxnr

of the Crown, because the Queen had peremptorily
refused to accept the resignation of Aberdeen or of any
of his colleagues. Her Majesty told Aberdeen, and
commanded him to tell us, that our resignation under
such conditions was unjust towards herself, injurious to

Iour own character, and indefensible as regards the

country. Although, of course, was aware that it was

Ipart of the prerogative of the Crown to accept or refuse

Ministerial resignations, had never realized it as a

power likely to be brought into practical use, and there
fore the position of affairs filled me with curiosity and
interest.

   Two or three of the Cabinet confessed that they had
had serious misgivings on the previous day when our
resignation had been decided upon. One of these was
the Lord Chancellor Cranworth, a most excellent man
with an admirable judgment. He had doubted, he
said, whether it was right for a whole Cabinet to resign
because one member of it had done so. He had
doubted also whether we, in our position, ought to run
away before an attack in the House of Commons.
Aberdeen admitted that he had had the same doubts,
and thus it was evident that the Queen had not merely
effected a change in our course as an act of obedience
to the Sovereign, but had recalled us to considerations
of duty and of public policy which in our haste we had
overlooked. None of us, indeed, doubted that Lord
John Russell, who was our leader in the House of
Commons, was far more than one individual member
of the Government, and that his defection and deser
tion just at that moment must be fatal to the Govern
ment. But, none the less, the Lord Chancellor and
Lord Aberdeen were right in recognising that the Queen
had exercised her prerogative with wisdom, as well as
with strength.

    Our first duty under the new conditions was to con
 sider who, in the coming debate, should take the place
 of the colleague who had so suddenly deserted us, and
 what line was to be taken on behalf of the Cabinet

1854-55]     THE DUKE OF NEWCASTLE                     519

as a body. One thing was certain -- all the world
around us was in a passion. The House and the
public were determined    to hang somebody.      The   War
Minister was, of course,    the obvious victim.
                                                   It   was

true that under his Administration the British Army
had won three of the most brilliant victories that had

ever signalized its conduct on the field. It was true
that later misfortunes pointed clearly to a kind of mis
             wItithwawshitcrhuethtehaWt aart  Minister had little  or
management                                    the very moment      of
no concern.
the Parliamentary crisis, and under the same War
Minister, the tide of misfortune in the Crimea had
already begun to turn. But at that juncture nothing
of all this had a chance of being listened to for a
moment. Newcastle knew that he must resign, and
he told us that he meant to do so the moment the
division was announced, whatever it might be. But
this did not solve our difficulty. Was the House of
Commons to be allowed to know of this resolve of the

War Minister ? It was the only chance we had of

weathering the storm. But would it be consistent
with our honour to sacrifice our colleague in order to
save ourselves ? Had we not been his colleagues
during all his days of success and victory ? Had we
not been proud of the splendid organization which in
his hands and those of Graham had landed such an
army with its siege-train 3,000 miles from home ?
Had we been able to make one single suggestion which
he had rejected ? Were we now to throw him over in
the face of the House of Commons, when most of us,
if not all of us, believed that the calamities were due
to causes over which he had no control ? Those ques

Itions, rejoice to say, we answered unanimously in
Ithe negative. There is nothing remember in my
public life with greater satisfaction than the conduct
of the Aberdeen Cabinet at this, the last moment of
its existence. Some few of us really thought that
Newcastle had been sometimes slow. But not one of
usTcould put his finger on anything he had done, or

520 RESIGNATION OF LORD JOHN RUSSELL [chap, xht

anything he had refrained from doing, to which, by
even any plausibility, the mismanagement at Bala
clava could be traced. An overpowering sense of
personal honour told us that we must stand or fall with
him, and that our spokesmen in the debate were to
give no hint, however faint, that we would remain when
Newcastle had been sacrificed.

Among the alternatives enumerated, there was
indeed one which in itself would have been acceptable
to some, and that was that Newcastle and Palmerston
should change places, Palmerston taking the War
Office. But T pointed out the inconsistency of at
once proposing to defend the conduct of the war, and
yet displacing the Minister whose defence we were pre
pared to undertake. The force of this was felt by all,
and we agreed to meet the enemy in statu quo.

  IOn the 26th of January, after another Cabinet,
went with my wife by command to Windsor. The
IPrince at once sent for me, and told him what had
Ibeen settled at the Cabinet.         found him in rather
Ilow spirits. We had a long conversation, and told
Ihim my own impression that from a variety of causes
  had been led to doubt for some time whether a change
of Government would not be desirable. The Queen
soon entered the room, when Her Majesty expressed
freely, though without any bitterness, her surprise and
Iastonishment at the course taken by Lord John

Russell. On the 27th returned to London to attend
Ia Cabinet. There had been an adjourned debate in

the Commons, and heard that Palmerston had spoken
feebly and ill. Newcastle complained of the great un
fairness to him of Lord John's speech. He said his
position was intolerable unless he could make his own
statement speedily, and almost desired to resign, that
he might make it in the Lords at once. We reminded
him that this  would   judosnt eb--e   doing what we had all
agreed should  not be                 that was, throwing him

over to appease the Commons. Newcastle was much
moved, and said he had not expected such ungenerous

1854-55]    THE PRINCE CONSORT'S VIEWS             521

conduct from anyone. A shipwreck, he said, was not
a very pleasant thing, either physically or metaphori
cally ; but he would rather be the man drowned in

such a storm than the man who saved himself by
putting his feet on the shoulder of a friend. Aberdeen,
with that determined love of the exact truth and of
perfect justice which was characteristic of him, was
the only man who said anything in defence of Lord
John. He said that Lord John, it was true, had not
stated the case on Newcastle's side, but, on the other
hand, he did not think that Lord John's speech was
very ungenerous towards him, or that such was his
intention.  whiGchladIsrteopnleiedatshkeadt        my opinion on this
point, to                                     me
                                                   John had suppressed
                                             Lord
or omitted what ought to have been stated by him,
Iconsidering the hardship of Newcastle's position.
   On my return to Windsor, saw the Queen and the
Prince before dinner. The Prince was unhappy about
the debate. There was no statesman's speech. But
the country needed to be told that it was a great nation
waging a great war and a great enterprise against a
great Power, and that it must not fret and fume at
any mere want of success, without discriminating
between the evils due to the magnitude of the enter
prise, or those due to climate, and those due to mis
management. The present run against Newcastle was
an unjust one. But he clearly admitted the want of
management on the part of Raglan. The Prince
thought that Lord Hardinge would have done it better.

IThe Queen joined in our conversation, and could see

that Her Majesty clung to the hope that the Govern

ment would be reconstructed, if we should be beaten
on the pending division. Lord Aberdeen came to
Windsor on Sunday to dinner, and in the evening
Her Majesty renewed her conversation with both of
us on the crisis.

  IOn Monday, the 29th, my wife and left Windsor
with Aberdeen, and we again discussed the probable
issue of the crisis. Aberdeen said he was determined

522 DEFEAT OF ABERDEEN GOVERNMENT [chap, xxiv

to part friends with Lord John Russell, and spoke
with characteristic  ejvuesrtyicteh,ingm. odeIranteiovne,r  and candour
of everybody and                                            admired him

more.
   Next morning, January 30th, 1855, we were defeated
in the Commons by the enormous majority of 157,
only 148 members voting with us.  frTahnetict--runthotistothbaet
Parliament and the country were
wondered at, indeed, considering what all popular
assemblies are, yet, nevertheless, not justified by the
facts of the case. The great feature of the debate
was a fine speech by Gladstone, exposing Lord John's
conduct with skill, and ridiculing the attempt of the
House of Commons to inquire into the conduct of the
war by means of a Select Committee.
We had a meeting of the Cabinet at once, to arrange
about our resignation, at which Clarendon announced
the signature of the Treaty with Sardinia, by which an
auxiliary force of 15,000 men was secured for our
                             That was our last              act,  and
troops  before Sebastopol.  the conduct of the              war.
a very  important one, in                                           It
was one of the many steps we had taken before we
resigned, which contributed much to that turning of
the tide which soon led to the final success of our great

enterprise.
   Gladstone expressed his thanks to the Cabinet, and

especially to that portion of it whose connection with
himself was new, for the support and cordiality with
which they had acted towards him in all his measures
and proposals. He said that the Cabinet of Lord
Aberdeen would ever be remarkable for the manner

in which it had brought together the two great parties

formerly opposed.
   Thus fell the Ministry of Lord Aberdeen, after a
duration of a little more than two years, from January,
1853, to January, 1855.
   The immediate cause of its fall was the action of
Lord John Russell in deserting his colleagues, because
he would not hold himself responsible for what he

1854-55]  DEFEAT OF THE GOVERNMENT                523

had himself done along with them in the Crimean
War.

  It is possible, of course, that, even if Lord John
Russell had not deserted his colours, we might have
been equally defeated, because the tide of impatience
and anger against us was at that moment rising high.

But certain it is that his virtual confession that we
had no defensible case made the division hopeless, and
rendered our defeat certain.

   In looking back upon the work of the Aberdeen
Administration, it is impossible not to see that it was
a great one. In the first place, it set the example of
that reconstruction of parties which had become
essential to the conduct of political affairs. And
this was permanent.    In the                     it carried
an immense reform in              second  place,  country--
                      the fiscal  system
                                          of the
a reform so large and so fertile that it marks an epoch
in our domestic history. In the third place, it estab
lished a friendly alliance with France, amounting to

active co-operation in a common foreign policy. In
the fourth place, it established as a principle, in our
dealings with the Turkish Empire, that the affairs of
that Empire were a matter of concern to the whole
of Europe, and ought not to be left to +he selfish
action of a single Power. In the fifth place, it took a
step which went a long way towards recognising the
rising Italy, then represented by Sardinia, as one of

the Great Powers of Europe. All of these were
achievements in both home and foreign politics of
the highest order of importance. All of them have
had lasting effects upon the future, and it is one of
the strange ignorances which Parliamentary contests
produce, that our work as a Government is in most
minds identified with nothing but six weeks or two
months of bad weather and local mismanagement
in the Crimea. Despite that mismanagement, the
military reputation of the country suffered no dis
paragement. On the contrary, both by the victories
won and by the vast display of maritime resources

524 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxiv

in the transport of the army, both for ourselves and
France, and by the very calamities which proved the
spirit and endurance of the British soldier, our reputa
tion as a military Power was in many respects much

enhanced.                                                       Ministry
   But the greatest                                             that no
was yet to come.     hoItmawgeas  to the Aberdeen
                                   speedily found
Government was possible except a reproduction of
that Ministry as nearly as could be attained. Lord
Aberdeen, indeed, retired finally from public life.
He had    done the   gthreeanthasevrevriceendteorehdi--s  country which
no other  man could                                       that of making

possible a fusion essential for the public welfare.
There was also another member of the Cabinet whose
return to office could not be then in question, and
that was Newcastle. A natural public prejudice
ascribed to him the misfortunes by which we had
all been distressed. But as regards the rest of the
Aberdeen Cabinet, it is a curious comment on the
popular verdict of the moment that we were all again
installed in office within the space of a few days, and
that, with the addition of a few new colleagues, we
with our allies carried on the Crimean War to a trium
phant conclusion, precisely as we had carried it on

before.
The transactions through which this curious result
was arrived at were a signal illustration of the dis
Iianntdegaras tIedwascopnedritsioonnalloyf                  at  the   time,
                      political parties                   most  of   them,
                     conversant with
and behind the scenes as regards them all, think it
may be worth while to tell the story in some detail.
The Queen, following, as she always does, the con
stitutional usage, sent first for the leader of the largest
Parliamentary party in the majority which had defeated
us. This was Lord Derby. But he knew and felt that
he could not form a stable Government in such stormy
waters, with nothing but his old crew of Protectionist
Conservatives. He therefore at once applied to Pal-
merston for his co-operation. That is to say, he applied

1854-55]  FORMATION OF NEW GOVERNMENT  525

Ito the man who was one of the foremost in urging the

Crimean enterprise, and, as personally knew, was the
very foremost in ignoring the magnitude of it and the
dangers it involved.  IPalmerston declined to take office
under Lord Derby.
                          know nothing of his reasons.
He may have felt that his own time was coming, and
near at hand. He may have felt, too, that his late
association with the Peelites could not be so rudely
broken and so quickly reversed as his engagement
with the Tories would imply.
Derby did not confine his attempts at another fusion
to catching Palmerston. He also invited Gladstone
Iand Sidney Herbert, who declined. The Queen next

sent (as believe) for Lord Lansdowne, rather as her
oldest and wisest Privy Councillor than as the head
of any party. Lansdowne consulted Gladstone, who
told him that if there was to be any reconstruction,
he did not see that a new form of the late Cabinet
would offer any advantages. At that moment he
seemed to consider a simple return of the Aberdeen
Cabinet as not impossible.

  I IOn the 3rd of February went to see Lord Grey.
found him of opinion that the best solution of the diffi
culty would be a Palmerston Government. But he
admitted that, if Palmerston was inclined to enlarge
the area of the war, it would be a fatal objection. He
thought the Peelites ought to reinforce Derby, if again
Iinvited, as he saw no public principle to divide them.

  asked him if he thought Gladstone would ever sit in
the same Cabinet with Disraeli. He said : ' No ; but
Ithey must get rid of Dizzy.'  said that was not so
Ieasy. In the afternoon of the same day went to see
Gladstone, and found that Lord John Russell had just
called upon him. The Queen had been compelled to
send  for Lord John, by  the failure of others. Gladstone
told  him what he had
                         told Lansdowne --that, if there
was to be any form of coalition, he preferred the last.

Lord John was very nervous. Just at that moment a
note was handed to me from Lord John, saying that he

526 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxiv

wished very much to see me, and hoped I would come
to him that evening. After going to Aberdeen and

Itelling him that could never take office under Lord
IJohn under existing circumstances, wrote a note to

Lord John intimating that, as regarded office, my
feelings and opinions left me no room for choice, and
begging that he would not consider me for one moment
Iin any arrangement he might be making.

   Next day, the 4th February, 1855, went to Aber
Ideen, and found that Lord John had failed, and had

abandoned the attempt. So far as could hear, no
man worth getting would serve under him. This was
a striking result of his own conduct. With great
abilities, many fine points of character, and near the
end of a life of great service to the progress of our
political system, he had nevertheless become impos
sible as a Prime Minister.
Palmerston was now the only resource left to the
Queen, and he had accordingly been sent for, and was
trying to form a Government. Clarendon and Lans-
downe had both been with Aberdeen       Itrryeicnegivteod  get his
support. On the morning of the 5th                         a note

Ifrom Palmerston asking for my assistance. On going

to town, found that a sort of Peelite Cabinet was being
held at the Admiralty, where Graham was confined to
bed by some illness. We spent two hours there.
There were assembled Aberdeen, Gladstone, and Sidney
Herbert. Herbert was as decided as      it Iwwasashiins    nature
to be in favour of joining Palmerston.                     favour
of the same course. But Gladstone and Graham were
both strongly opposed to it. Gladstone said that the
mob of a Cabinet could not control its course.
That depended on its working heads, and the one
in whom he had most trusted would be away in
a Palmerston   administration.    Graham       amused us
by conjuring  up all sorts of   terrors --  for instance,
that Palmerston would subject the policy of England
to that of the French Emperor, who had declared
that he wished to see Palmerston Prime Minister.

1854-55]    PALMERSTON PRIME MINISTER                     527

Aberdeen at last told us that on the whole he ad
vised us to join. Gladstone then tested him with
the question whether he would be able to get up in
the House of Lords and say that he had confidence
in the foreign policy of Lord Palmerston. Aberdeen
replied that he certainly would be able to hope the best.
Gladstone pounced on this as a test, and intimated that
it could not satisfy him. We then asked Aberdeen
whether he could not himself join the new Cabinet
without office. Aberdeen replied that this alternative
was                       To   be Prime    Mtihneistneerxtondeadya--y
and  clearly impossible.  any   functions
     a Minister without
this, he said, would be a confession of incompetence
to which he could not submit ; and we all felt the truth
of what he said. Gladstone remained firm, and the
Iidea of a reconstructed Cabinet seemed impossible.

   On leaving the Admiralty, had now to consider
Ithe comparatively vIeryhadsmraelcl eiqvueedstfiroonm  of my own
                                                        Palmerston
reply to the letter
in the morning.           had conceived, during our
Ilate Ministry, a real feeling of respect for his public
character.  thought him manly and straightforward
Iin his opinions and in his expression of them. Of

course, had no sympathy with the absurd popular
superstition that  htehawtahsethceouoldnlyhamveanpwrehvoenctoeudldit.conI
duct the war, or

knew that he had been quite as unforeseeing as any of
Ius as regards all the unexpected contingencies which

had led to our difficulties ; knew that he had proposed
nothing which could have had any effect either in
meeting them or in preventing them. But anyhow,
as the Duke of Wellington used to say, ' the Queen's
Government must be carried on,' and the popular
impression of Palmerston' s powers as a War Minister,
Ieven although it was largely a delusion, was in itself a
qualification for the moment.          was therefore clearly
          strongly in favour of his                       a Cabinet.
and       there was one consideration  forming         I   could not
                                        which
But
get over as regarded myself. That consideration

528 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxiv

Iarose out of my relations with, and my feelings
towards, Lord Aberdeen.     could disregard                        thI ecopureld
valent nonsense about Lord  Palmerston, but                        in the
                                                                   joined
          tnoonasneyn,seeveanbosuetemiAnbge, rdaeceqnu.iescIefnce
not stoop

Iprevalent
IPalmerston in company with all the other Peelites,
Icould do so without any such implications. But if
Iwere to join him alone, felt that my position would be
Iopen to a kind of misunderstanding which could not
Ifor a moment bear.   therefore wrote to Palmerston
quite frankly that, as the vote of the House of Commons
was pointed partly at Aberdeen, it must be presumed
to point also at views in which all his friends heartily
shared, and that they could hardly join a Government
framed on the special basis of his exclusion. Palmer
I Iston instantly replied by asking me to come to see him,
as he thought was in error on a point of fact.                     at
once complied, and walked off to see him. He told
me that since he had written to me he had received
the answers to his invitation of Gladstone and of Sidney
Herbert, and he saw that we were acting together.
However, he added, what he had wished to say to me
was that, though he admitted the vote of the House of
Commons to be pointed partly at Aberdeen, it was
because views which     Aberdeen  did not hold were
erroneously ascribed              was, therefore, not
                      to him. It
pointed at his views, but at views which were not his.
This was ingenious,   and partly true. He   thItenwsilal idbe:
' You (the Peelites)  will be much blamed.
said that Aberdeen is keeping his party together in
the idea that the Government will again fall into his
Ihands.'  told him that this was not the motive, and
Ithat felt that a Government under Aberdeen would be
I Iimpossible at present.
                      added that could not act
Iseparately from others, as was personally much con
nected with Aberdeen. He then said he would have
to form his Government out of pure Whig elements--
an alternative which he did not seem to contemplate
with pleasure.

1855]     PALMERSTON AND THE PEELITES                                     529

I took care to explain to Palmerston that my diffi
culty arose solely from the personal relations in which

I stood towards Aberdeen, and that upon any other

Igrounds whatever had not the slightest objection to
serve under him. He was most kind and cordial in all
he said, and expressed great regret, as well as perhaps
some censure, regarding the apparent determination
of the Peelites to keep up a separate party in the State.
On the evening of the 5th it had got abroad that the
Peelites had refused to join Palmerston in forming a
Government, and the political world was full of
Iastonishment, and quite as full of anger.                             found
Aberdeen at the House of Lords looking distressed and
Iperplexed.     awebnatbya--gaainn  to Gladstone, and found               him
                                    occupation to which he                was
playing with
Imuch addicted.        asked him if he had no doubt of the
rightness of his decision. He replied that he never was
buffeted by the waves of public feeling without being
sensible of their effect. But the mental process was
Iclear, and he remained as firm as a rock. Granville,
whom      met,  was    lotoudthaendpuabnligcry,intaenrdestssa--id   that   our
decision  was   fatal                                              that   Pal
merston would dissolve and come in with a most un
desirable strength and power, and that it was hard on
those Whigs who agreed with us most.
   On the following morning, the 6th February, 1855,

I went to see Lansdowne, to express my sorrow for

Ithe break-up. Near his house was hailed from a cab,
and a messenger gave me a note from Gladstone, telling
me that Aberdeen had begged his friends to join,
and they had agreed that, if he (Aberdeen) could get
assurances from Palmerston enabling him to declare
Ihis confidence in the foreign policy of the Government,
they would join.       proceeded to see Lansdowne, and
he told me of the  sItrtehnegnthweonftAtboeGrdraeheanm's ,  remonstrances
with his friends.                                            and heard the
Isame story, and then to Aberdeen, where found Glad
stone, having just sent off a note to Palmerston agreeing
to join him, since Aberdeen had received the most
vol. i.
                                                                   34

530 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xht

satisfactory assurances from both Palmerston and

Clarendon.

Palmerston had addressed to Gladstone an excellent
letter, denying that he was aiming at any wild schemes ;
if he could alter the map of Europe by a magic wand,
he admitted that he thought he could reconstruct it in
a way to add to the happiness of mankind, but he would
measure his end by his means, and would not commit
the blood and treasure of England to theoretical
Ischemes.   then at once sat down and wrote a letter
Ito Palmerston offering my services.                     agreed in the
general conclusion that no other Government was
possible at the time. This alone made it a duty to
support it. Yet it was only by the energetic exertions
of Aberdeen, in influencing his friends, that the forma
tioInt  of it was accomplished.
                                          to  find       myself  thus  sepa
        was a great wrench to me
rated from Aberdeen, and member of a Government
which seemed as if it were founded on no principle
whatever but his exclusion, together with that of New
castle. There literally was no other change. With
                                     all   returned to
twheesheadexbceeepntiobnesf,orew--e  all  of us equally  office exactly as
                                                         responsible with
our retiring colleagues, not only for the general policy
that had been pursued, but also for the supposed
administrative mistakes that had been so severely
blamed. In some respects it was a ridiculous result,
but the ridicule lay not with us, but with the workings
of party government under very peculiar conditions,
and with the wayward and passionate impulses of

I Ipopular opinion swaying a popular assembly.

   As soon as found myself thus placed, wrote to
Aberdeen the following letter, which is the best record
of my feelings at the time :
                                              ' Argyll Lodge,

'My dkar Lord Aberdeen,                                  'February 7, 1855.

        ' I have heard from Palmerston this morning, and thus find

myself, with others of your friends, members of a Government from

which you retire.

1855]        SEPARATION FROM LORD ABERDEEN                                 531

I' cannot tell you how repugnant to my feelings this position is
when    regarded merely from this point of view.         I am only recon
ciled  to it by the fact that you approve of it on       Ithe whole, and
only accord to it my own approval under the hope that we may be
able to give some effect to your principles and views, even though

deprived of the support of your presence.

   ' But I cannot allow the first hour of this new position to pass
without begging you to accept from me an expression of my most
grateful and affectionate admiration. I feel keenly anything that
gives even the semblance of this appearance of separation from you ;
but this we must, and will, prevent. I can only say that, should I
continue in public life, I shall seek as the highest object of
ambition to imitate the virtues of your public character, and

especially that scrupulous regard to moderation, truth, and justice
which most of us are daily sacrificing to opinions of others or

*****prejudices of our own.
              'I am, my dear Lord Aberdeen,
                                     ' Ever most sincerely yours,
                                                                  ' Argyll.1 *

  I must here say a few words about Newcastle, who,

as War Minister, bore the brunt of the popular dis

satisfaction, which also, from different causes, was

* The following extract from Lord Aberdeen's reply is added by
the Editor :
                                                         ' Argyll House,

'My dear Duke,                                           'February 8, 1855.

       ' It will always be a source of real satisfaction to me that I
have been the means of introducing you into official life. Your
    '

*****beg
talent, your industry, and the uprightness of your character, quite

Iindependently of your high station, will render your future success

certain ; and shall watch your progress with an affectionate

interest.
       I am  tvoerbyeliseevnesibIleshoafll  your kind feelings towards  me, which  I
                                            always highly value.
       you

              ' Ever,  my dear              Duke,  most  sincerely  yours,
                                                                    ' Aberdeen.1

                                                                    34--2

532 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxiv

Ishared by Aberdeen. Newcastle was the member of

the Aberdeen Cabinet with whom had the fewest
Ipersonal relations. He was one of the regular Peelite

group, and more intimate, think, with Gladstone than
with any other member of his party. But he never
seemed to me to be very intimate with anybody. He
had a somewhat stiff manner, with much reserve. He
was rather a ponderous speaker, somewhat hesitating
in utterance, and without life or animation in his de
livery. But, on the other hand, he had admirable
abilities, indefatigable industry, and excellent sense.
His mind was dispassionate in council, but he inter
vened little in discussion, and seemed shy of doing so.
When the danger of war began to loom out of the dark
ness upon us, he found himself, besides being Colonial
Minister, at the head of a War Department which had
nothing like an army to rely on.
Nearly forty years of confirmed peace, without any
attention paid to military organization, had left us
with a certain number  of  regiments, but with no
of combination, and    no  highly educated staff.  sysIttemis

immensely to Newcastle's credit that, without any fuss
or ostentation, he, within a few months, collected and
sent out from the shores of England to the Black Sea,
first, an army of about 30,000 men, with all their
accoutrements, and two trains of heavy siege-guns,
and, secondly, reinforcements to the amount of about
11,000 more. We none of us had originally con
templated an operation so immense, and, in so far as

the calamities in the Crimea were the result of lines

overextended and of soldiers overworked, it is quite
certain in my mind that the fault did not lie with
Newcastle, but with the vast unforeseen conditions
of the enterprise as a whole. Moreover, we must
recollect that it was Newcastle who did the work which
brought matters right after all.
When our new Palmerston Government was formed,
all things in the Crimea had already begun to
mend. Newcastle's reinforcements of men, and his

1865]  THE RECONSTITUTED CABINET                    533

overflowing supplies of  all kinds, including warm   cloth
                          sent, but had begun to    arrive,
ing, had not only been
before we were driven from office by the House of
Commons ; and at the very moment when we were
retiring we had the satisfaction of hearing those more
cheering accounts from the seat of war which were the
presage of final success. Newcastle's name, therefore,

is not to be connected only with the first collecting,
organizing, and sending out of a larger British army

than Wellington ever had under his command upon
the Continent, but also with the later efforts which re
deemed local mistakes and rehabilitated an exhausted
army for its final triumph. On the 7th of February,
before as yet the new Cabinet had been even formed,
a despatch was published from Raglan to tell us that
warm clothing had been distributed to the army in
abundance ; and so it was with numberless other

remedial measures which the Aberdeen Government
had undertaken, and which were just coming into full
play when it was turned out.
IThe reconstituted Cabinet met for the first time on
the 9th of February.       cIotuldsenemotedheltpo  feeling that it
was rather ridiculous.
                                                    be the same
identical ship, with the same crew, excepting only a new
captain and a new mate. We were resuming, too, the
same identical course, and shaping it exactly as it had
been shaped before. The illusion was increased by the
fact that Palmerston at the Cabinet meetings was very
silent and quiet, just as Aberdeen had always been.
Our substitute for poor Newcastle was Lord Panmure.
He was a rough, strong-headed Scotsman, a cousin of
the Marquis of Dalhousie, then Governor-General of
India, and he ultimately succeeded to the title.
He was a man of excellent common -sense, but of no
brilliant abilities, and had been one of the corps of
Scottish Whigs who had always stuck by Lord John
Russell, and were generally most aggrieved by that
Iexclusion from office which was a consequence of the
fusion with the Peelites.  had known him person-

534 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxiv

Ially for a good many years, and always found him to

be what is called a very good fellow, but it never
would have occurred to me that he was a man to resort
to in any great crisis of administrative affairs. He
had, however, nothing of Newcastle's reserve of char
acter, and he discussed everything with freedom and
Igood sense. He had been long known in the House of
Commons as Fox Maule.         doubt whether the House

generally was much conciliated by his appointment to
the War Office, or by the virtual restoration of the
Aberdeen Cabinet, with Palmerston as its new head.
There was one member of the House of Commons at
I Ithat time whose dissatisfaction was pronounced, and

to whom must refer, as my wife and came to have
rather intimate friendly relations with him. This was
the celebrated Austen Henry Layard, whose wonderful
and fruitful discoveries on the site of ancient Nineveh
were then new to the world. He had come home a few

years before, and had had a splendid reception in
London society. All doors were open to him, and he
became the lion of the time.   The  witty Lady  --Moberlceaym--e
grandmother of the present    Earl  of Morley*
Irsaatihde: r'Ibonreevderwcitahn
                 this worship, and  was quoted as having
                 forgive Nineveh    for having discovered
Layard.' Layard was rather a singular man.
                                                                               used
to fancy that he had a strange look of the man-headed
bulls he had unearthed. He had a powerful head, and
a countenance    eaxplritetslesivreecokflesgsrneeasts.deteItrmwinaas titohne,
perhaps of just                                                                and
                                                                               look
of a man who would stick at nothing. And yet he
had a pleasant and not ungentle voice, with an amiable
smile. Feeling an intense interest in his discoveries,
we made early acquaintance with him, and cultivated
it as best we could. He was particularly kind to our
boys, who became very fond of him, and altogether he
appeared to us in the most amiable light.
Politically, however, he soon began to show his teeth.

                 * Died in 1905.

1855]  AUSTEN HENRY LAYARD                                 535

Layard, like most men who have travelled and lived
much in the East, and whose political sympathies take
little or no heed of the higher moral elements in national
character, was an enthusiastic friend of Turkey, and,

of course, a furious enemy of Russia. A man with his
powers and his impulses could not maintain a passive
or even a reasonable frame of mind in the midst of

events so exciting and so distressing. Besides, his was
a mind which, in the House of Commons, without the

advantages and restraints of office, was quite sure to
become violent and factious. Accordingly, no more
violent speeches were made there against us than
Layard' s, and he seemed really to incite the House of
Commons to imitate the old Revolutionary Convention
of France in taking into its own hands the functions of
the Executive. His language in that direction, and in
assuming that the misfortunes of our army were
ascribable to the incompetence of our aristocracy, was
referred to by Gladstone as a warning against complying
with any attempts of the House of Commons to take
the inquiry as to causes out of our own hands, as the
       advisers of  the   Crown.
        distressed  me     to find
IresIptonrasitbhleer                my   friend            Layard

taking a course so violent, and conceived a project
Iof getting him to meet Aberdeen at my house. My
wife   and accordingly    aarrcacnogmepdlisha edd.inneIrt  at which
this   meeting should be                                   went off

very well, so far as ordinary courtesies were concerned.
But when the company had all gone, and Aberdeen

Ihad remained, as he usually did, till we were alone,

    said to him : ' Well, Lord Aberdeen, what do
you think of Layard ?' Aberdeen shook his head
Iemphatically, to our great amusement.
                                                           quite
understood. Probably no two human spirits were
ever   more differently constituted, or   could find it
more   impossible to understand each     other --the one

singularly just, scrupulous, and temperate in all
things ; the other essentially impetuous, and full
of prejudices. Such was the result of my first and

536 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxrv

Ilast attempt         at personal               conciliation between political
                        continued
opponents.                                      to keep up my friendship with
Layard more or less, in spite of the violence of his
language and of his opinions, till Palmerston enlisted
him in the Diplomatic Service, after which he resided
almost exclusively abroad.

   The second meeting of the Palmerston Cabinet took
place on the 12th of February, 1855, when Clarendon
announced that Lord John Russell had agreed to act as
our negotiator at Vienna in the conferences which had
IIbeen so long going on about the basis of a future peace.

  liked this appointment, both because it removed Lord
John from London, and because believed that he was
quite sincere in desiring peace. Panmure's proposal
to send out a Chief of the Staff to help Raglan was also
agreed to. The choice fell on General Simpson.
On the 16th, Palmerston made his first statement as
head of the Government. He told the House what we
had done and were doing, and that we must still object
to the appointment by the House of a Committee of
InqI uthiroyuginhtto  the           and conduct of the war.
                      the   causes  of the House bad ; those  whose
                           temper
whole trust had been in Palmerston were disgusted by
the supposed counter-elements in the Cabinet. ' Thus,'
I wrote in my journal, ' the Government rests on no
Istrong Parliamentary party.                    don't think it can last.
The Times has a violent article against a Government
framed precisely as it had itself advised a few days ago.
But the omission of Layard had enraged it, and it
rails against aristocracy.'
Next day, the 17th of February, we had another
Cabinet. Palmerston told us that he had felt the pulse
of the House as to the Committee, and it was plain to
him that they were determined to have it. He therefore

advised and proposed concession on this point. A long
discussion followed, in which we were quite unanimous
saps erceigaallrydssttrhoengo.bjeIcttiownass,,
                                                Gladstone and Graham being
                                                indeed, obvious that, besides
the constitutional objections, an inquiry into all the

1855] SECESSION OF GLADSTONE, GRAHAM, HERBERT 537

causes of misfortune would certainly be dangerous to
our French alliance, since the French Generals were
Iundoubtedly concerned in many of them. At a

Cabinet on the following day had made up my mind
that, despite all these objections, concession was the
lesser of two evils, and that another crisis, with another
Cabinet of debris, would be a scandal and a danger to
the country. When Gladstone and Graham found them
selves alone in resisting the Commons Committee at
any cost, they asked for twenty-four hours to consider.
On the 21st, at a Cabinet held on purpose, these two,
with   SpidunteyhisHecrabseerts,trdoencgllayre--d tthhaety   must retire.  Glad
stone                                                       the Commons    could

not inquire without danger to the French alliance,
without injustice to the officers whom the Executive
is bound to defend, and without an invasion of the
prerogative of the Crown. Palmerston was very good-
Ihumoured,                                                                   told
                                                                           them,
my Peelite
            though       theavtid, eanstlyI   much          annoyed.
            friends                          did not        agree with
I Icould not go with them. They said was quite right.
At the same time, this is the only occasion in my public
life with Gladstone when he did for a moment show
some considerable irritation.
The secession of Gladstone, Graham, and Sidney
Herbert from the first Cabinet of Lord Palmerston was
a tremendous rent. Next to Palmerston himself, they
were perhaps the three strongest men, both in them
selves and in all they represented in the history of
politics at the time. They were all powerful speakers
and excellent administrators. They were, moreover,
Ithe last remnants of the Peelite fusion which had been
the basis of the preceding Cabinet.                         was the only
                                                                           Peelite,
manedm, bsetrricrtelymasipneinagkinwg,hoIsehasdymnpeavtehriesbelownegreed   to the
Igroup.     had never held office under Sir Robert Peel,
Iand had always been reckoned as rather an outsider.
IthafetltI  much this    separation from my friends, but all
            had of this  feeling had already been           hciomnsfreolfn.tedI
                         retirement of Aberdeen
and met on the

538 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xsiv

cared comparatively little for separation from Graham
or from Sidney Herbert, and neither my admiration for
Gladstone, nor my increasing personal intimacy with
him, could supply motives strong enough to overcome
my own clear sense of what was due to the public

Iinterests in a great crisis. was determined not to let
Imyself be led, as saw Sidney Herbert was, by the mere
ipInrteespallowencdtte--hreatthinteegndtweenendicgeyhntctyoof  a will stronger than his own.
                                                               exaggeration in Gladstone's
                                                               to assign overweening im
portance to lines of reasoning which, however true up
to a certain point, had to be balanced more equably
than he was disposed to allow against other arguments
charged with a modifying force.
  IAs regards the policy of the Government and the

conduct of the war, had no alarm on account of losing
three men who had never taken an individual line
different from the colleagues who still remained. We
Istkilnl ehwadthCalatreAnbdeordneefonr  our                    Foreign Secretary, in whom
                                        had                    the greatest confidence ; for
he had expressly told his old colleagues, in inducing them
to join   Palmerston,    that he looked to Clarendon
faithful  to the cause  of a reasonable peace. Besides,        asI

never had felt that dread of Palmerston which had been

expressed by the Peelite members, and which he had
such difficulty in overcoming. Especially at that
moment, when both we and France had discovered to
                                                               on hand in trying
our cost  Swehbaatstaoptoolu, ghI       job we had             absurd to suppose
to take                                 thought it
that any Minister of Palmerston's common-sense could
seek to extend or to prolong the war, if any satisfactory
peace could possibly be attained.

   But now the question arose, How and to what extent
was the Cabinet to be reconstituted ? Palmerston had
told me not many days before that if the Peelites would
not join him, he would have to fall back on a Whig
Cabinet pure and simple. But no one knew better
than Palmerston how little desirable such a result

would be.

1855]             MR. CARDWELL                                                 539

We now took a course which was at least unusual,
if not wholly unprecedented. The constitutional usage
is that the first Minister chooses his colleagues without
consulting anybody, except, of course, in so far as
personal communications with individuals may be a
necessity. But in this case Palmerston seems to have
felt that he was not forming a new Cabinet, but only
trying to defend breaches unexpectedly opened in a

Cabinet he had already formed. At the same time,
the breaches were so large and formidable that the
new walls might not only alter the character of the
whole fortification, but essentially change it, and so

the rent might be made worse. He thought it
prudent, therefore, to consult his remaining colleagues
as to the principle on which reconstruction should be

attempted.
Accordingly, on the 22nd of February, Palmerston
called  luinsetsoogfetphoelirc,ya--ndthaastkeodf   our opinion on              two dif
ferent                                            making advances              to Lord
John and the Whigs, or of making advances to the Tory
Opposition. We were all against the last alternative, and
we all agreed to the first. We found, however, that
Palmerston, on his own responsibility, had offered the
Chancellorship of the Exchequer to a Peelite subordi
nate of the Government, Cardwell, who was too timid
to accept it. Mr. Cardwell was President of the Board
of Trade. He left the Government                  with all the other
Peelites, and for the same reasons.
                                                  It was then agreed
to offer the Colonial Office to Lord John Russell, but
not to supersede   his mission                    Tohfenne--gotfieaetliionng,  to Vienna.
And this was      accepted.                                                      as most
             that Peelites
of us did,   -- there arose  were unpopular and                                Whigs
discredited                   a strong desire to                               widen
the usual circles of selection and to enlist some ' new

Imen.'

   At a Cabinet held on the 25th ventured to advocate
our thinking of nothing but fitness and ability.
Palmerston, in looking for new men, so far as
regarded official life, had made an excellent shot in

540 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxiv

offering the Exchequer to Sir George Cornewall Lewis,
whose wife was a sister of Clarendon, and who, although
he had never been prominent as a party politician,
had a great and just reputation, not only for learning
and literary ability, but for judgment and wisdom.
On the same day we heard that he had accepted.
Lewis became one of the most valuable of all our
members, not so much in finance, as in all the questions
of international law which a great war and prolonged
negotiations were bringing to the front. His calm,
judicial mind, and the utter absence in him of political
Ipassion of any kind, made him an invaluable counsellor.

  have never seen in any man, except in Lord Aberdeen,
a mind so singularly dispassionate, combined with such
Iwide knowledge and perfect integrity of character.

He was one of the very few men have ever met in the
world whose formed opinion on any difficult question
would be to me in itself a very strong presumption in
favour of any course which he approved. He was a
real authority on a whole range of subjects, equally
helpful both in thought and action. He had a quiet
and very grave manner, with a demeanour so staid and
thoughtful that the saying ascribed to him that ' life
would be very pleasant if it were not for its amuse
ments ' is a perfect translation of the impression made
by his intercourse with the world. He was a great
addition to the Cabinet.
There were two other additions made by Palmerston
at this time, both of which gave me great pleasure,
though of a very different character. One was Lord
Carlisle, and the other was Lord Canning. Carlisle
was one of the old Whigs, for whom no room had been
found in the Aberdeen Cabinet, but who was personally
most acceptable to all. The first vote he gave was in
Ifavour of agreeing to the House of Commons Com

mittee, and was sure that he would always be in favour
of the earliest possible peace. Lord Canning was a
IPeelite, and a close personal friend and follower of
Aberdeen.  did not know him at all intimately, but

1855]              LORD SHAFTESBURY             541
I Ia
had felt   much for Aberdeen  in his   inability to give him
seat in    his Cabinet, and   think    that Aberdeen must
Ihave told him of the offer had made to him on the
subject, because Canning treated me at once in the
Imost

had
         friendly  spirit. He used to   report  to me what
       passed at   any Cabinets had    missed,  and to urge
me to come up for any Cabinets which he thought would
be important. We became, in short, rather intimate

Iftrhieinnkds,wealthhaodugmh,anoyutsiindteertehsetsspohrerheaobfitpsoloitfictsh, ougdhotnoint
common. The higher qualities of mind and character

which he undoubtedly possessed would probably have
never been known, had he not soon been removed
to that nobler field of action which was opened to
him when he was appointed to the Government of

IIndia.
    Palmerston, think, was rather pleased than other
wise with the work of Cabinet-making. He went on
patching for some time, and one day he astonished
Ius all by proposing that Lord Shaftesbury should be

added to our number. was far too fond of Shaftes
Ibury, and had much too great a respect for him, to

say one word in opposition, but saw that it rather
took away the breath from a good many of my col
leagues. His fervid nature, his uncompromising tem
perament, and his somewhat individual opinions, were
evidently not considered as promising well for united

Icounsels. My opinion, which, however, kept to

myself, was that he was a far more valuable man out of
office than in it. Palmerston evidently saw that the
proposal was not very well received, and we heard
nothing more of it. Shaftesbury must have had as
large a share of wisdom as he had of indomitable zeal,
else he never could have carried through his factory
legislation ; and as he had a great respect for Palmer
ston, he might have done well under him, but hardly
under any other man. On the whole, he was certainly
better left to his own grand career in the cause of

humanity.

542 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxit

During the remainder of February and during all the
month of March we were a good deal cheered by the
accounts of the improved condition of the army,
of its reinforced numbers, and of its rising health
and spirits. Instead of barely 15,000, we had now
above 20,000 men, with abundant resources and equip
         But so far as  the Siege of  Sebastopol was   con
ment.    there seemed   to be little  or no progress.
cerned,                                                 In

effectual bombardments and bloody repulses could give
us no confidence in even ultimate success, and indicated
only too plainly that the calculation of the Engineer
Department had been terribly mistaken from the first.
But the prolonged success of Russia in the defence
of Sebastopol was producing more dangerous results
than any mere disappointment to us. The sentiments
of military honour were more highly strung in France
than with us. More depended on the issue there
than here, and the Emperor was getting nervous and
excited. He suddenly formed a resolution to go in
person to the Crimea. We all thought this course

most inconvenient, and even dangerous. His own
Ministers were against it. Clarendon crossed the
Channel to meet the Emperor and try to dissuade him.
There was another scheme of the Emperor to which we
were equally opposed, and that was to put the whole
force, including the British Army, under the supreme
command of the French General. This we all con
sidered was out of the question, and we argued with
the Emperor that nothing could be more dangerous in
its practical working to the interests of our alliance.
With these and other schemes of the French Emperor
or his Ministers we were kept in perpetual hot water.
Clarendon, however, managed very skilfully to check
mate them all.
  IAnother difficult and painful subject which weighed

upon us about this time, and which personally felt
almost as a distress, was the command of our army in
the Crimea. The Aberdeen Cabinet, through New
castle, in its later days, and the Palmerston Cabinet,

18551                LORD RAGLAN                                          543

through Panmure, had written fully to Lord Raglan
otcahnoneudaldlhalerbmteheygna,ietvreagpnneu.dtzizclaehIlndalydAadpncerdaiflel,lpen1add8ien5dfe5o,dbr aoultslshuhciihnhs isrteehpxeslptiaelsafsufnfhafaeatnirdoidnncgsohsmimeao,sf

Iself. The question arose, Did the replies satisfy us ?
    do not think there was one of us who would have
given an affirmative answer. The conviction had been
growing in my mind, and in the minds of most of my
colleagues, that, with many great qualities, Lord Raglan

was deficient in those administrative and organizing
powers   wahffiecchtinwgereounreeadremd yininthetheverCyrimpeecau.liarIf
ditions                                                                   con
                                                                            we
Ithought so, were we justified in leaving its fate in
his hands ?       hated the idea of taking part against
a man of such a noble character, and whom we had
sent on an expedition which we knew was beset with
dangers ; but, on the other hand, it was our duty to
do the best we could for our army, and to shut our
eyes on none of the lights which experience had thrown
Ion the conduct of the expedition as a whole.
                                                                 found
that my colleagues generally had a like conviction,
and yet a like repugnance to face the consequence of
Raglan's recall.
Palmerston and Panmure, and all who were con
cerned, had two great difficulties in the way, which it
was very    hard    tCorimoveearcnomcoem. maFnirds--t,
requisite  for the   with                                as regarded one
ing on high           own                               a power of stand
in number    terms         the Generals  of
             to our        -- there was  no             an army  superior
                                                         man to  be com
pared with Lord Raglan. Secondly, as regarded the
other qualifications needed in the camp and in the
field, there was not one of our own Generals whom
we could designate with any confidence as certainly
possessing them. Panmure had just sent out to be
Chief of the Staff a General whose reputation was a
blank, and of whom we never heard that he showed
any talent at all. To displace Lord Raglan without
really knowing whom we should appoint in his stead

544 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxit

would have been a dangerous and ridiculous opera

Ition.

   Among my papers of the time, have found a very
able Memorandum by Lord Ellenborough on the causes
of our great losses in the Crimea. Party spirit ran so
high that it was very difficult to get anything like an
unbiassed opinion from men of competent knowledge

and ability. All who were hostile to the Government
           Lord Raglan    thrIotuigshofthinictekreasnt,d  thin, laying
defended    blame on us.                                  therefore, to
the whole
see the careful, written opinion of a man who was one
of our fiercest assailants in the House of Lords, when
he came to sit down and gravely to argue with himself
Ion the blots of the campaign.  have no recollection
Ihow  came by the  mdoecubmyenEtll,enebxocreoputghthahtimistelmf. ustI
    been given to
have
was on a very friendly footing with him. He had
taken much kindly notice of me when, as a lad, in
I1841-1842 had regularly attended the debates in the
ILords,

in his
      and recollect his taking me home                    ofnaetheevr'esn. ingI
      carriage, his house being near my
Iwas a great admirer of his oratory, especially in respect
to his elocution.  continued frequently to converse
with him, and doubtless it was in consequence of some
conversation with him at this time that he gave me
the paper referred to. The remarkable thing about

it is that it traced the misfortunes of our army entirely
to local mismanagement in the   ICt riims ewa riitttseenl,f,  or,
other words, to Lord Raglan.                                  as   in
                                                                   he

Ialways wrote, with great ability, and without com

mitting myself to entire agreement, must say that
it seems to me to carry conviction on its face.
We were not, however, as it turned out, obliged to
undertake any campaign inland. We did at last suc
ceed by ' pegging away,' as we had done before, and
we did not therefore need any new military genius to
take up Lord Raglan's work. We thus escaped in
flicting a terrible affront in the face of the world upon
a gallant and devoted man. But more than this, we

1855]         DEATH OF LORD RAGLAN                               545

escaped the ridicule of inflicting this affront on a
venerable soldier for the sake of replacing him by
Isome officer in all ways inferior and thoroughly
commonplace.        did   nIotsooknnofwounthde    full   amount  of
this danger then.    But                        it out.
Lord Raglan did not long survive. He sank on
June 28th, 1855, under the weight of his work, the
vexation and anxiety it involved, and at last the
mortification of another severe repulse of one of those
bombardments and assaults on which our attack had

alone depended. Then, when Raglan was gone, whom
did we find in possession, specially sent out by those
two popular saviours of the army, Palmerston and
Panmure ? General Simpson ! He may have been
in many ways a good officer, and a favourite at the
War Office. But his name was utterly unknown to
the nation, and is now completely forgotten. He left
no mark behind him on the great siege.
Towards the end of March there had been a short
interlude in        political life, due to an
in Scotland.  mIyt  is well known that the      engagement

                                                students in
the Scottish Universities have the privilege of electing
their own Lord Rectors. These elections turn a good
deal on politics, and are conducted with all the
machinery and all the excitement of the political
contests of later life. On the other hand, they are
often determined by personal or literary considera
tions, sometimes by the ties of neighbourhood. The
Istudents of Glasgow University had been kind enough

to elect me as their Lord Rector, and went down to
Glasgow to deliver the usual inaugural address, on the

I28th March, 1855. Struck as had been by the
Isplendid character and rare gifts of Lord Aberdeen,
did not think he was duly known to, or appreciated
by, his countrymen generally. His natural silence and

Ireserve accounted a great deal for this, and deter
mined to tell my fellow-countrymen something of my
own feeling on the subject. By a good many it was
received with applause, but by a good many also with
vol. i.
                                                         35

546 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, nn

disapproval. It must be remembered, however, that
in Scotland Lord Aberdeen's name was far more closely
connected, in the popular mind, with the Church con
troversy which had ended in the Disruption than with
any thought of foreign affairs or of the principles of
Iimperial policy which were associated with his name
as a Minister of the Crown.            could not expect his
name to be favourably received by that large portion
Iof the Scottish people who were connected with the Free

Church. So far as could judge, however, there was
no strong political feeling on either side as regarded
theItpwolaitsicssooonf  the moment.

occasion that           Iahftaedr  my  return from Scotland on this
                                   my  first and only opportunity of
seeing the new Emperor of the French. He, with his
Empress, reached Windsor on the 16th April, 1855.
On the 19th, the Lord Mayor of London gave a great
luncheon to the Emperor and Empress, at which an

Iaddress from the Corporation was to be presented.
went with my friend and colleague, Sir George Grey.

I was placed next the Emperor at the luncheon, and,
Iof course, had an excellent opportunity of studying
his face. There was not a trace of the Napoleonic
type -- a type capable, indeed, of conveying very un
pleasant expressions, but a type, nevertheless, rarely
separated from great beauty of proportion and of
form. There was neither here, as it appeared to me,
Iand his expression was watchful and suspicious ; but,

on the other hand, thought his speaking excellent.
He spoke in good English, and with great tact and
judgment. His allusion to the time of his exile here
was conceived in the best taste, and was very warmly

applauded. In referring to our political freedom, he
contrived to throw in just a little implied excuse for
himself, in establishing so very different a system in
his own country. This was most adroitly done. On
Ithe whole, the speech gave me the idea  of a man of
                                         not feel any
very considerable ability, though could
confidence in a character which looked through such

1855]  PEACE NEGOTIATIONS                       547

a countenance. His whole object at that time was to
consolidate the alliance with us, and we were quite as
anxious for this result. We could not have prosecuted
the war alone. On the whole, his reception was ex
cellent. There was no pretence to an enthusiasm
which could not exist, but there was complete cor

diality towards the exile whom we had so long sheltered,
and who had suddenly become the Sovereign of our
nearest neighbour, and our active ally in a tremendous
contest. The grace and beauty of the Empress did
much to compensate for her husband's personal appear
ance, whilst the Queen and Prince Albert did their

Ipart admirably in crowning the national reception.

   But have run into some arrears as regards my
record of by far the most serious subject of preoccupa
tion which engrossed us during those months of the
spring of 1855. That subject was the interminable,
tiresome negotiations about a future peace, which in
one form or another had been dragging their slow
Ilength along ever since the war began.  have already
Iexplained the reasons why had wished them to con
tinue. In the first place, as we professed to be fighting
for European objects, it was right that the other
Powers of Europe should know what we were driving

at. In the second place, it was good for ourselves to
define our own objects, and not to indulge in vague
speculative projects, involving prolonged war and
more widely extended operations. We had now

reached the stage at which it was thought best to
concentrate those long palavers into the form of a
regular Conference of the Powers, and to start it with
a protocol, expressing in general terms the basis of a
preliminary agreement to be signed by us all. As
already mentioned, Lord John Russell was to act as
our representative at the Conference, and he went off
to Vienna in the middle of February, 1855. The very
first thing he did when he arrived at Vienna was to
advise us to give up the preliminary protocol, so far
as signing it was concerned, because the Powers were

                                         35--2

548 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxiv

unwilling to be bound by it. This did not look well
for any better agreement when further details were
to be entered upon ; but the truth was that we had
long foreseen that one of our ' Four Points ' would
present insuperable difficulties, so long as the fate of
Sebastopol remained undecided. On all the other
' Three Points ' it did not seem improbable that a
peaceful settlement might be reached. But when we
laid down, as an essential basis of any satisfactory peace,
that something effectual must be done to limit the
preponderating power of Russia in the Black Sea, we
were making a demand on Russia which she would
certainly resist with all her strength.
On the other hand, we had committed ourselves on
this point, not in words only, but in deeds of great
self-sacrifice, and by directing our attack on the grand
naval arsenal of Russia on the Euxine. What could

be the use of such an expenditure of blood and treasure
having taken Sebastopol, we were to allow to be
if,

                                                 ?
                                                      '
                                                                         '

                                                                 it
again rebuilt, refitted, and re-armed with fleets as
powerful as before Austria was as half-hearted,
timid, and shuffling as usual. She would gladly secure
at our expense all the points which affected herself.
She was heartily with us, therefore, on all the Danubian
stipulations, and perhaps even on a Christian protec

torate in Turkey. But she shrank with instinctive
timidity from any obligation which had the slightest
chance of involving herself in war with Russia. She
would go with us as far as possible short of that, and
she used language now and then which lured us on
with the hope that she might be brought to join in
presenting an ultimatum to Russia. One of her
manoeuvres was to cut down the dangerous Third
Point  '
                              '
accept,
                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                     a
         to some scanty residue  which   R--ussosialonmg,ighatt
         and to which we might   submit
least, as we were still kept at bay in the Crimea. The
alternative into which Austria tried to inveigle us, as
fulfilment of the Third Point,' was to give up any idea
of limiting Russian fleets in the Black Sea, and to

1855]       LORD JOHN RUSSELL AT VIENNA            549

substitute some plan of ' counterpoise,' by opening, on
various conditions, the Black Sea to the Western Powers.
I Iwas strongly opposed to any such concession.
                                                   saw
how unworkable it must be-- how rarely it might be
possible to get the Western Powers to take the same
view on all occasions, or perhaps on any occasion,
involving naval co-operation ; whereas Russia, with a
great fleet always present and always impending,
would be practically as much mistress of the situation
as she had been at Sinope. This Austrian substitute
for positive stipulations, limiting the armed forces of
IRussia in the Euxine, seemed to me to be quite illusory.

In this agreed with Palmerston and the Cabinet

generally.
Lord John Russell did not turn out to be a good
Plenipotentiary. He had two dangerous qualities in
a diplomatist : he was very impressionable, and he was
very impulsive. He allowed himself to be seduced by
the Austrian proposals, and he was incautious enough
to express a favourable opinion to the Austrian
Minister. We continued to oppose them, and so did
the French Emperor. When Lord John found this, he
came home, not, of course, in the best of humours.
He, however, had the sense to acquiesce ultimately in
the united decision of the French Government and of
his own colleagues. As a member of the Cabinet, when
he spoke in Parliament, he spoke in this sense, as he
was, of course, obliged to do. Then Austria complained
of him, and published what he had said in Vienna,
whereupon all the hound-element in the House of
Commons fell    upon Lord John         wiItfhsoa,
Had he really  said this at Vienna  ?               savage bay.
                                                   how could he
come home and speak so differently ? No allowance
was made for the great difficulties of a negotiation
conducted between four or five different Governments,
and in which, even on the merits, there was a good deal
to be said for more than one conclusion. No allowance
was made for changes of mind and of language due to
the influence of allies from whom we could not separate.

550 FORMATION OF MINISTRY BY PALMERSTON [chap, xxit
The dogs of political animosity had caught a new scent,
and ran hot upon it, all eager to be in at the death of

Lord John Russell. There were elements in his case
which shut his mouth. He could not betray what
the French Emperor said about his own army.
Finding, therefore, the storm against him too strong to
be faced, he determined to retire, and Palmerston
agreed that resignation was the only course he could
adopt, under the very peculiar circumstances of the
case. And thus we were landed in what would have
been another Ministerial crisis, had it not been for
the position of almost complete isolation in which Lord
John Russell was then placed.

      CHAPTER XXV

      1855

AUSTRSTIAONNEP--ROLPOORSDALSCLFAORRENPDEOACNE'S--APTRTOITPUODSAEL  OF GLAD
                                                                      FOR A

      TREATY WITH SWEDEN

I have in the last few pages epitomized very shortly
the transactions of a most painful and difficult time,

which lasted from the departure of Lord John Russell
for Vienna in the middle of February to his return at
the end of April, and then till his resignation at the
end of July. This was a period of some four and
a half months, during which we had the most critical
and dangerous navigation. We were acting for a
people who were watching us with angry and suspicious
eyes, without having themselves any intelligent idea
of exactly what they wanted. One section was jealous
lest  we should make peace     tsohoouslodonfig; hatntootohelronsge.ctioInt
was   equally jealous lest we

was hard enough to be called upon to make up our own
minds on the terms we should ask, before we could
possibly guess what were the terms which military
success might enable us to impose. But it was worse
Istill to be under the necessity of communication with
an ally so peculiar as Louis Napoleon.  do not wish
to give a bad impression of him. My conclusion at the
time, as it is my conclusion still, was that the French
Emperor wished to run true with us, and that for some
reason he had set his heart on the English alliance, at
least for a time. He allowed himself, in the Eastern
Question, to be chiefly guided by our advice. As to the

      551

552  AUSTRIAN PROPOSALS FOR PEACE [chap, xxv

negotiations at Vienna, he told Lord Cowley, our
Minister at Paris, that it was his desire to support us
in them. But Louis Napoleon was not only a bad
 man of business, he was also liable to sudden changes
of impulse and opinion, which he seemed unable to
correct by a careful attention to the exact meaning of
words, and to the effect of diplomatic documents.
Thus, he hastily adopted erroneous impressions from his
Ministry or supporters, who were not very scrupulous
in the representations they put before him. They
cared little or nothing about the permanent interests
of Europe, or about any interests but their own. A
typical man among them was Prince Napoleon, com
monly called ' Plon-plon,' and he told one of our officers
at Varna that it was very easy for us to be in favour of
the attack on the Crimea, because failure could only cost
us a Cabinet, but with them (the French) failure would
cost them a dynasty. So now the Emperor's advisers
were getting more and more nervous about the want
of success in the Crimea. They wished, in short, to
back out of the whole affair as soon as possible, and
when they heard of Lord John Russell approving of the
Austrian proposals on the Third Point, they got hold
of Louis Napoleon, told him falsehoods on the nature
of those proposals, and actually persuaded him to
write urgent letters to us insisting on our acceptance of
them. Nothing could be more embarrassing in our
position. We had postponed our final decision on the
Austrian proposals till we could hear from Lord John
Russell personally what he had to say in their favour.
He came on the 30th of April, and we had a Cabinet on
the 2nd of May.

  I have spoken severely of Lord John as regards his
Iconduct in the Aberdeen Government, but must

speak well of his conduct now. He had been very in
cautious in his language to Austria, which was virtually
language to Russia ; but in the Cabinet of May 2nd,
among ourselves, he was moderate and rational. He
did not even profess to think that the Austrian pro

1855] NAPOLEON III. AND THE AUSTRIAN TERMS 553

pItosmalisghcotuplderbheaptshelasbta,sihse  of a really   satisfactory  peace.
                                             said, for   some ten or    fifteen

years, during which Turkey might recover strength,
but we must count, on the other hand, on our own very
unsatisfactory position in respect to military success
in the Crimea. Palmerston was strongly against
acceptance, declaring the Austrian terms to be such
as we might accept on the footing of a capitula
tion. We all sincerely wished to think the question
out under every aspect of the case, and with a due
regard to the possible alternative of a serious military
reverse. This continued to be the state of matters
in the succeeding Cabinet of the 4th of May ; but at
our meeting on May 5th we received a telegram from
Paris to the effect that the Emperor had again changed
his mind, and would follow our advice in refusing the
Vienna scheme.
   What had happened was this : Our Ambassador at
Paris, Lord Cowley, was a very able man. He had
inherited that powerful blood of the Wellesleys to
which we owed so much. Only one generation back,
the eldest brother, the Marquis Wellesley, was
Governor-General of India ; the second was Sir Arthur
Wellesley, Duke of Wellington ; whilst the third was
Sir Henry Wellesley,                                                 afterwards
                        an able             Cdoiwplloemy.atisItt,  was his son,
raised to the peerage
                       as Lord
the second Lord Cowley, who now represented us at
Paris. He had a strong personal opinion against the
Austrian proposals, and, in discussing them with the
Emperor, he found that Louis Napoleon was under
the delusion that those proposals included a limitation
of the Russian fleet in the Euxine. Cowley assured the
Emperor that in this he had been deceived, and that
nothing of the kind existed. The Emperor then said
that he must again consult his own Foreign Minister.
Cowley made the bold request that he might him
self be allowed to be present when this consultation
should take place. To this Louis Napoleon consented,
and this was fatal to the French intriguer. Cowley

554      AUSTRIAN PROPOSALS FOR PEACE                                        [chap, xxt

was able to prove to the Emperor, from the documents
themselves, that the Austrian proposals placed no
limit on Russian fleets, and that everything in this
direction which the allies had already accepted would
be sacrificed in the new peace. Marshal Vaillant, who
was head of the French War Office, was then asked by
the Emperor what his opinion of the feelings of the
army was, to which the Marshal at once replied that
the feeling of the army would be strong against such a
peace. This decided the Emperor. He told Cowley
that he abandoned his advocacy of the Austrian pro
posals, and Cowley at once telegraphed this result to us.
   This       aI llcovuelrdy  well for  once, and it
         was                  not help                       was a great
escape,                                 feeIflingCotwhlaety
a very   but                                                 it indicated
                                                              had really
         dangerous situation.
gained such an ascendancy over the Emperor, and if he
allowed it to appear to his own Ministers, the French
people would soon come to know of it, and a proud
nation would ill bear the idea that their policy, at a
very difficult conjuncture, was determined by the will
of a Foreign Ambassador. Granville had gone to
Paris on a private visit, and, of course, saw all the
political personages concerned. He wrote me a very
curious letter, about the strength of the language which
ICproowploesyalsa--lloaweledttehrimwsehlifchtoseuesmeedagtaoinisntdicthaete  Austrian
wished me to give some note of warning.                                       that he

                                                             accordingly
Isent a note to Clarendon, pointing out the danger to

which have referred, and urging that Cowley should
be reminded of it.
But this was not the only kind of embarrassment we
met with in our communication with the Emperor.
The strict sentiments of honour and of integrity by
which English statesmen are always guided in the trans
actions of business, whether private or public, could
not be sentiments familiar to a man to whom intrigue
and conspiracy had been the breath of life from his
earliest years. Scruples which to us seemed insuper
able objections were scarcely intelligible to him ; and

1855]                LOUIS NAPOLEON                                 555

the case was worse with all his Ministers. Accordingly,
we were very soon plied with French advice that we
should reopen negotiations with Austria, keeping in
reserve certain conditions, to be sprung upon her after
the negotiations had made some progress. We were
uosb--ligtehdatto  explain that this was a
                   we must be ourselves      plan impossible for
                                               quite open with
Austria, not only with respect to all our immediate
proposals, but as regards all our aims and objects
for the future. Cowley had positive difficulty in
even explaining to the Emperor what we considered
the unfairness of the proposed methods of proceeding,
and told us that we must take care of the honour of
France, as well as of our own, for there was nobody
to do so in Paris.
   On the 26th May,  1855,   my wife and I dined with the
IQueen at Buckingham Palace.
                                     dinnheard--a   long conversa
tion with Prince Albert after                      always a great
Ipleasure, since he was so wise and thoughtful.
                                                                found
he was fully alive to, and much concerned about, the
low standard of morality which seemed to rule French
diplomacy. He told me that Louis Napoleon had
shadowed forth to him, personally, his scheme for
first catching Austria as an ally in the war, and then
declining to make peace when our avowed objects had
been attained. The Prince argued with the Emperor
         --thanis            as one not consistent with our
against             scheme,   to which the Emperor listened
honour             argument
with perfect good-humour, but also with amusement
that so much stress should be laid on any considerations
of the kind. The policy was one to be acted upon,
not to be argued about on abstract grounds. These he
would not                                    Iwtitwhilla  shrug of his
shoulders :        debate, merely    saying               be seen how
                                     dire.'
                   ' Je n'ai rien a
uncomfortable, and even dangerous, our position was.
Our only safety was that the French Emperor sincerely
clung to our alliance, and was determined in the main
to follow,our advice. f Xj v;i,
   And so thisAcrisis^,passed        --one   which        kept  us  in

556         ATTITUDE OF GLADSTONE                                 [chap, xxv

continual anxiety during the whole months of April
and May. We had other embarrassments at home,
only less serious because those who occasioned them
had less opportunity, and were less in a position of
advantage. The head     aonpdpofrnoennttso--f tDhiesmraewlia--s,   not  the
leader of our avowed                                              but   our

once familiar friend, with whom we had                     taatkeVniensnwae--et
counsel together since negotiations began                          friends
Gladstone.  --bTehceausme oamuesnetlessthaCtomhmeittaened    his    House
quitted us                                                 of the
                                         British Constitu
            would put            to the  very soon be our
            quite sure           would   knew his nature
I ItoifonC--ommwoanss
                        an end

                        that he
fiercest opponent in everything.
too well to believe that he could long maintain the
position of a mere dissentient on one point and remain
friendly upon others. Accordingly, the moment he
heard that Austria was making proposals which Lord
John Russell was at least willing to entertain, but
which we considered to be illusory, he at once got up
a high head of steam, and argued himself into a fever
of antagonism and suspicion against Palmerston, as
determined to fight for mere victory, when everything
Isubstantial as to terms had been or could be gained.
  found my dear friend Aberdeen a good deal influenced
by him, and had some long arguments with him, both
by word of mouth and by letter. Fortunately, Glad
stone, as usual, overdid his part, but if his Parliamen
tary and popular credit at the time had been what they
were at a later date, he might have done infinite
mischief. His whole tone was that Russia, not Turkey,
was the country that was now likely to be treated
unjustly, and that it was his duty to help her to retain
adequate naval defence against aggression from the
Black Sea. We had a great triumph in the secession
which his violence caused in the scanty number of his
own friends. Sidney Herbert, who had followed him
in all else, could not follow him in a course which could
scarcely be reconciled with the previous conduct of the
Aberdeen Ministry in its long insistence on the Third

1855] PALMERSTON'S DIFFICULTIES  557

Point. Sidney Herbert opened communication with
us, and co-operated with us in some Parliamentary
expedients, by which we gave it to be understood that
negotiations were not finally closed, although we had
declined such Austrian proposals as had hitherto been
made. But although this sort of language conciliated
a few, it irritated a far greater number. The House
had voted for Palmerston as the Minister who would
prosecute the war vigorously, not as the Minister who
would listen to shabby terms of peace. The feeling,
therefore, was that of jealousy and suspicion, and
Palmerston returned to our Cabinets all the more

determined to resist the Austrian muddle. In this,
to our surprise, he was finally supported by Lord John

Russell, although quite lately his language to Aberdeen
had led him to believe that he and all the Peelites were

quite agreed.
   The feeling of the House was proved on the 24th

May, 1855, when a motion by Disraeli, supported by all
the malcontents, was defeated by a majority of more
than a hundred. A similar attempt in the House of
Lords, supported by all Lord Derby's forces, on the
25th May, met with a similar signal defeat. Both
Houses of Parliament thus showed unmistakably that
they desired the Government to prosecute the war
as best it could, until success should enable and entitle

it to demand such terms of peace as might satisfy the
objects for which it had been undertaken.

    There are one or two incidents of this time which are
significant of some of its peculiarities, and which,

therefore, it may be well to mention. Palmerston had
not yet quite finished his work of Cabinet-making, and
the new member whom he recruited was Lord Har-

rowby, who had sat long in the House of Commons as

Lord Sandon, and was a regular member of the Conser
vative party. He was the son of that older Lord

IHarrowby to whom the famous Cato Street Con

 spiracy had been betrayed, and whom had met, still
alive and well, at Hamilton Palace in 1840. Lord

558                  ATTITUDE OF GLADSTONE                                  [chap, xxv

pHoalritriocsw,byandhaId  never taken any very active part in
                          hI abredlliyevkenietwwawshbyecPaaulmseerLsotordn  wished to
have him ; but                                                              Harrowby
was one of the few public men who felt strongly on
what used to be called the ' Polish Question,' in which
his kinsman Lord Dudley Stuart was deeply concerned.

In one of our discussions on the Vienna terms of peace,
Harrowby rather surprised us by saying that no real
good could be done without the dismemberment of
Russia, and that all arrangements short of this were
tporamcteic. allIyt  useless. This   was a new             of opinion
                      was obviously    useless in  phase  discussions,
                                                    our
because Harrowby himself did not seriously propose a
war for the dismemberment of Russia, neither did he
seriously propose that we should
peace on any terms we could get.     mIatkwe aasna                          immediate
                                                                             mere out
burst of impatience with the condition of Europe, and
was'at once dismissed both by Palmerston and by others.
uInsde.irecIttlyp,uthionwtoevdeerf,iniittemwaoyrdnsotvahgauveevbieewens,    without its

                                                                            which were
only half consciously entertained by many, and when
thus put into words they were seen at once to be

impracticable.
There was, however, another incident of this time
which had serious significance as a symptom of the
condition of the public mind. There is nothing that
the multitude will not think or believe, when it is angry
and alarmed, and accordingly, one of the many mad
suggestions which arose out of the passion of the time
was that the Crimean misfortunes were all due to what
was called aristocratic government. In this country,
where the different layers of society are so finely gradu
ated, it is difficult to give any definite meaning to
language which assumes them to be widely separated
and distinct. But, however true it might be that the
higher offices of Government were then, and had always
been, filled largely by men of birth or of academical
education, this was, and had always been, the result of
successful competition in the open contests of the world,

1865]  LORD ELLENBOROUGh's ATTACK                    559

and of the exhibition of qualities which secured for them
the confidence of those who had risen to the top. There
was not the smallest reason to believe that there were
in the House of Commons, or in the country, neglected
men of the middle classes who would have conducted
affairs better. But there was undoubtedly at that time
in the House of Commons a considerable group of
clever and discontented men, who thought very well of
themselves, and who had much influence with the press.

In attacking what they called the aristocracy, they
were in reality blowing their own trumpets, and were
perhaps hopeful of forcing an entrance into the highest
offices of the State. They had succeeded in raising a
vague feeling of uneasiness and discontent, and in
getting up one of those stupid cries to which any dema
gogue could appeal. We never heard anything about
Iit in the Cabinet, except occasionally as a joke.
       recollect being much amused one day by Graham
saying solemnly that he could not conceive how any
--Caablilnuedtincgoutlod  stand that was            ItwiwthastwwoitDh uskuers
                          Newcastle and   weighted
                                          to me.
prise, therefore, that we heard Ellenborough, who
attacked us in the House of Lords on the 14th May,
1855, resort to this miserable claptrap in his speech.
He got nothing by it, and deserved to get nothing.
He was himself born of the middle class, and was then
enjoying a peerage won by the abilities of his father.
Moreover, no man had shown such contempt as he for
the very best representative body of the middle classes
in the country. When appointed Governor-General
of India, he took every opportunity of snubbing the
Court of Directors, to whom India owed so much, and
treated them so disrespectfully that he brought down
on his own head the unprecedented penalty of recall.
I IWe beat Ellenborough by a majority of forty-four, but
  was unable to speak, as had intended to do. One
consequence of this was that a day or two after, in
rMeasnpsoinodningHofuosre,thIe  House of Lords at a  dinner at the
                                made a sharp attack  on those who

560              ATTITUDE OF GLADSTONE  [chap, xxt

assailed what they called the aristocracy, and asserted
our right to whatever place our faculties might assign
to us in the government of the country. This speech
was suppressed altogether by some members of the
press, which nevertheless attacked it viciously.

   We have now come to a time when events took a

somewhat new turn. In the last days of May and the
first ten days of June, 1855, we heard of our capture
of Kertch, which opened the gateway into the Sea
of Azof, and of the destruction by our gunboats
of an enormous amount of Russian stores destined
for Sebastopol. Important roads by which the
great fortress was fed were destoyed at the same
time. This great success gave new life to us as a
Government, in the country and in Parliament, and was
interpreted as the beginning of the end. The credit
we got for it shows the ignorance and injustice of which
the public mind was full. We had been living for some
time on the reforms which the Aberdeen Cabinet had
set on foot, but which could only come into operation
after some interval of time. But it so happens that the
instructions to attack Kertch, and the designation of
that attack as of primary importance in the fall of
Sebastopol, had been pressed on Raglan and on Lyons
by Graham and Newcastle, and it had been delayed only
because our Generals and Admirals could not overcome
the inactivity of the French. At last, in Pelissier, Lyons
found a French General who consented to co-operate
with our troops, and the conquest was effected easily
by the energy    and enterprise   of  Ioturwnaasveavl eonfficoefrsg,rewaittehr
little fighting  on land at all.

importance than we had fully estimated, because the
strain on the resources of Russia was becoming every
day more and more severe, in keeping up the enormous
supplies needed for her army and garrison in the Crimea.
Those supplies were largely derived from the country
by the Don, and were conveyed to Sebastopol by boats,
and by roads and causeways on and along the shores of
the Sea of Azof and the Putrid Sea, which is a branch of

1855] SUCCESSES IN THE CRIMEA 561

it. The destruction of stores on such a scale, and the

shutting up of the roads by which they came, added
immensely to the difficulties of defence, and to the
exhaustion of the Russian Government.

   The effect of this great success was not less marked

at home. For some time a monster debate had
been pending in the House of Commons, raised on a
Motion of Censure by Disraeli. There had been a per
fect wilderness of amendments moved from all the
disintegrated factions in the House. But in a moment,
when the occupation of the Sea of Azof burst upon us,
all reality and interest in the result of the debate were
at once extinguished, and the credit of the Government
was immediately restored, although quite as unreason

ably as it had been impaired before. Then, only two
or three days after this great success, we heard of
another, entirely different in kind, yet all the more on
that account most acceptable and encouraging. This
was the capture by the allied armies of two of the
actual outworks of Sebastopol itself, called respectively

the Mamelon and the Quarries. All our previous suc
cesses had been mere repulses of the enemy attacking
us. This was a success against the great fortress itself,
          received by    all of us with great rejoicing.
           just at this
           at Stafford
IandItwas
 was                     Hjuonucsteu--reouthr afitrst  met Gladstone at
                                                       meeting for some
luncheon

time. Social intercourse between men who have been
intimately associated in public life, and have become
sharply separated, is not always an agreeable occupa
tion. Gladstone could always argue in private life
with perfect temper, and so could I. But there was
one thing he could not do : upon any question on which
he was keenly interested, and on which his mind was
irrevocably made up, he could not even entertain an
opposing thought. Under such circumstances, his
mind was essentially fanatical, and there is nothing so
I Ihopeless or so tiresome as argument with a man in this

frame of mind. As expected, found Gladstone full
of the papers on the Vienna Conference, and declaring
vol. i.
                                                       36

502  ATTITUDE OF GLADSTONE                        [chap, xxv

that they filled him with sorrow. It was evident, he

said, that it was we who had broken off the Conference,
and that we might easily have attained a satisfactory
peace. He said he felt this so deeply that he reproached
himself whenever   he found himself  thinking or
of anything else.                     to me that  speaking
                    It did not seem               he could
Ifind many occasions for this self-reproach, if he was

always in the mood in which saw him. When Gladstone
had once taken up an opinion in this way, it became
to him a religion, and even every outwork was sacred.
But there was one thing which could generally be done
with Gladstone on such occasions, and that was to
quote him against himself. This it was not difficult
for me to do. In the many intimate conversations we
had had together on men and measures only a few
months before, when we were colleagues, Gladstone
Ihad been one of the keenest supporters of the war.

     think it right to say here that, although Lord John
Russell's course regarding the negotiations at Vienna
was so vacillating that it is extremely difficult to give
a definite account of it, yet it is certainly not true that
he was overruled by the Cabinet. He never fought
any battle in the Cabinet for the Austrian proposals,
as if his own mind were fully made up upon them. He
stated them, and some things that might be said in their
favour, but he left the Cabinet to decide on a fairly
balanced statement of the pros and cons, leaving us,
no doubt, under the impression that he advised accept
ance, though still doubtfully. The truth is, we had
committed a great mistake in taking him as a member
of the Cabinet at the very time when he had accepted

the post of our Plenipotentiary at Vienna. In this last
capacity he was the recipient of instructions from us.

In the capacity of a Cabinet Minister he had a right to a
share in the framing of his own instructions, and the two
offices made a hopeless confusion when he returned
home. The French Foreign Minister had resigned when
his advice was not taken. But Lord John was willing to
retain his office, and to speak in an altered tone. The

 1855] TREATY DIFFICULTIES 563

 whole affair was a hopeless entanglement, and undoubt
 edly would have upset the Government, unless the knot
 had been cut by Lord John's retirement into private

 life.

    But although the close of the formal Conference at
 Vienna had relieved us from some real dangers and
 constant anxieties, other anxieties took their place,
 and there is no part of the Crimean War which to me
 was more full of trouble than the few weeks that
elapsed between the retirement of Lord John Russell
 and the early days of September. The close of the
 Conference at Vienna did not put an end to those
negotiations of a vaguer sort which had been going on
 for months before the Conference had begun. These
were at once resumed, and they were even more tire
some and inconclusive than before. The same influ
ence continued to prevail. Austria was as anxious for
peace as ever, but also as determined as ever not to
be drawn into the struggle. France was as anxious
as ever to be guided by us, but the Emperor had seen
clearly that to withdraw from the Crimea before any
military success had been achieved, and with no record
except of repulses by the enemy, would be a serious
danger to his throne. One only difference there was :
reports reached us of the terrible strain on Russia
caused by the war, and of an increasing disposition on
the part of the Czar to agree to some peace.

   There was an old danger which now suddenly took a
new form. The Peelites had suspected Palmerston of a
disposition to enlarge the declared objects, and to widen

Ithe area of the war. Hitherto had seen no indication
Iof it, although occasionally had to insist upon the
Iadequacy of the terms indicated in our original ' Four

Points.' But now suddenly was startled by a cut-
and-dry proposal from Clarendon that we should agree
to a treaty with Sweden, guaranteeing that northern

kingdom against Russian aggression, especially on her
northern frontier in Finland. The British interest
involved was said to be to prevent Russia acquiring a

                                                                                    36--2

564 PROPOSAL FOR TREATY WITH SWEDEN [chap, xxv

great naval arsenal in a sea always open, by seizing or
conquering the Verunger Fiord in the North Sea.
Clarendon introduced it as if in principle the Cabinet
Ihad already agreed to it, and as if he expected from all
of us a ready assent to its particular form.    at once
challenged the assumption that the Cabinet had ever
given, or had ever been asked for, its assent. Several
other members joined me in saying that they had no
recollection of any such agreement. We did not even
know how far it went. Clarendon was then obliged to
confess that it was a specific guarantee given by us,
not covering the Finland Harbour alone, but the whole
possessions of Norway and Sweden ; that it bound us
to resist Russia, in defence of these possessions, both by

soefathaendcolasnt dbe; ianngdrethpaatidittodidus.notIstpiproutleastetedfoar gaaninyspt asrot
formidable an engagement being sprung upon us in
this way. Several other members of the Cabinet took
the same view, and when Clarendon and Palmerston
saw that we were seriously divided, they withdrew the
Iquestion for the time and for further consideration.

  was astonished and alarmed by the support given to
so rash an undertaking by such a man as Lord Lans-

downe.
  IOn the other hand, George Lewis and George Grey

were with me in opposition. At this time wrote the
following letter to Clarendon on the subject :

                     ' Argyll Lodge,

'My dear Clarendon,  'Kensington.

        I'The impression on my mind at present is so strongly

against the proposed Swedish Treaty that wish to explain it to

you before the matter comes more formally under the consideration

of the Cabinet.

  ' I do not at all doubt our interest in supporting the Scandi

navian kingdoms against the aggressions of Russia. On the

contrary, that interest is so direct and obvious that it gives us

rights of interference even stronger than those which we are now

exercising against the same Power in the East of Europe. But

1855]                    LETTER TO LORD CLARENDON      565

the more strongly I feel this, the more strongly do I feel also that

we may safely leave the cases of such aggression to be dealt with as
they arise. On general, as well as on special, grounds it seems to

me that we ought to do so. It is no light matter to deprive future

Governments of that full and free discretion which it above all
                                                   is
things, necessary they should have on great questions of peace andby ?
war. We value that freedom of judgment much ourselves, and
                                                                      ? is,
nothing but the strongest necessity should induce us to deprive
                                                                             it
of those who are to succeed us in future years. What should

we feel now any former Government had hampered us with a
guarantee of Cuba? What effect would such a guarantee have
had on the disposition of America to be troublesome to us now
when our hands are full The guarantee proposed would place
in the power of Russia at some future time to force us either into
hostilities, or, worse, the evasion, perhaps, of inconvenient obliga
it
            if

                                                ?

tions.

    That time Russia will know how to choose. It might be when
'

                it
we had complications with America or with France, or when, from

other causes, would be most embarrassing. What should induce

us to place such a weapon in the hands of any Power

'One inducement apparently held out                the securing of a

promise from Sweden that she will never give what we fear Russia

asking. This supposing the case of Sweden ceasing to consider
          ?

              is

                   if
the concession as dangerous to herself. But can we really suppose

such a case Or, we do, can we really believe that Sweden

would not find out some way of evading the obligation  So long

as Sweden continues sane, or so long as she does not join a

Northern League against us, she will resist the aggression of Russia

on Finmark and when she either ceases to be sane or joins the
       it

           is

                      ;
League aforesaid, her promise to us will not be worth the paper on

which     written.

''  Now, what light thrown on these probabilitiesis    Mr. Crone's

paper  ?
     In the first place, we find that so long ago as 1826 Russia made
'
a desperate effort to extend her march to the Atlantic coast, and

that she was firmly resisted by the Swedish Government.
     In the next place, we are told that the late intrigues of

Russia have roused the attention of the Norwegians and of the

Government, and that Sweden was on the point of appealing to

566 PROPOSAL FOR TREATY WITH SWEDEN [chap, xxv

Europe, when the war took off the attention of Russia for the

time.

   ' Farther, it appears that the Russian design has been cherished
since 1774, or a period of eighty years, and that for thirty years

she was nearer its attainment than there is any reason to suppose

she can be for thirty years to come.
   ' Surely, then, this is no case of urgency, none in which we

should be justified in taking out of the hands of future Govern

ments the freedom which ought to belong to them. We have not

only no reason to fear any blindness on the part of Sweden, but we

are expressly told that her eyes are open, and that she was actually
about to carry her appeal to Europe and, of course, to us. When

the danger again arises, we have the best ground of confidence that

she will pursue the same course ; or      whenever that event should
                                          I if,
happen, England still takes the same view of her policy or her
                                                              '
interests as that which we now take, she will be free to act upon      '

it. If, on the contrary, her views should be changed, that change                    is

will not have happened without a good cause.

Lastly, we gain no immediate advantage in exchange for this
if

   '

           I
burden of future inconvenience. There might be some inducement

Sweden were now to join in, in this pending war. But this not

proposed.     see no one result, except the danger of embarrassment

which we shall bequeath to others.            think that in waging this

war we should at least take care not to sow the seeds of future wars,

in so far, at least, as we can help doing so.  Yours,

                                                     Argyll.'

One of the most serious matters which weighed on
me was the dispirited and dispiriting tone of the letters
from our new Commander-in-Chief at Sebastopol,
General Simpson. He had evidently lost heart and
         --Hwearneexdpecutsedthtahte  whole    expedition to be a
hope.                                 if the   siege went on our
failure
army must be prepared to spend another winter
in the Crimea, and doubted whether the strength
and spirits of the men would stand such a trial.
Moreover, he told us that, whilst the French army
had regular 'lines,' we had none. Simpson added

1855 J                   sir john McNeill                          567

that, in his opinion, nothing could be done with four
gserepaartatme ana--rmaies.condTihtieoyn  must be united under
                                          practically impossible.  one

                                                                   We
were obliged to answer that if Simpson felt himself
--unaabvleeryfogrotohde   duties  cast upon him    he ought to resign
                         answer   to silence him.   But if all he said,
Ior even part of it, was true, what were we to do ?
wrote to Palmerston urging him to insist on a definite
answer          toourthaermmye.asuIrteswatso   be taken for preparng
' lines '  as                                 almost a despair to me
           for
Ito find Palmerston muffled up in his old dangerous

optimism. When spoke to him on the 1st of August
of the serious responsibility cast upon us by Simpson's
letter, he said with his usual careless confidence : ' Oh,
but Simpson is evidently rather a nervous man. They
must     take the Malakoff now, and                 when they      have
that    the condition of affairs will be           different.'  I   saw

no comfort in this sort of language. Simpson gave us
no hint of any hope of a successful assault, and Pal

Imerston' s ' must ' was no better than a guess.
   The only comfort received at all came from my old
friend and future brother-in-law, Sir John McNeill,
who passed through London on his way from the
Crimea. He was the younger brother of the Duncan
McNeill, afterwards Lord Colonsay, who had been Sir
Robert Peel's able Lord Advocate for Scotland, and
was now Lord President of the Court of Session. Sir
John had been our Minister in Persia, and in that
capacity was highly valued by Palmerston for his
ability. On coming home, he was appointed to be
President of the Poor Law Board for Scotland, which
had been instituted by his brother. Palmerston and
Panmure fixed on him as the best-fitted man they could
find to go out as Commissioner to the Crimea, and to
do what    the House of Commons Committee could not
possibly   do --report on the causes of the breakdown
under Raglan. Although well advanced in years and
by no means strong in health, he with great public
spirit accepted the arduous duty, and had now returned

568 PROPOSAL FOR TREATY WITH SWEDEN [chap, xxv

to London. He told me on July 30th that he had seen
Simpson's letters, and thought them much too despond
ing, and that they proceeded from a mind in some

degree enervated. In its way, of course, this was a
comfort ; but what sort of a prospect did it hold out as
regards the officer who was still in command of our

armIty   ?          some  days after these            transactions,  on the

        was
20th August, that we heard for the first time in the
Cabinet of an idea which ultimately took form in one
of the greatest events of our time. This was the idea
oSef acsu. ttinItg   a canal to join the Mediterranean and Red
                    was a French idea, and was urged upon us by
our ally, Louis Napoleon.   Palmerston surprised                     mIet
and others by the most     vehement opposition.
would, he said, cut off Egypt from Turkey, stop the
advance of the troops of the suzerain Power, and place
British interests in Egypt and in India at the mercy of
France. Clarendon was at that time completely under

Ithe sway of Palmerston, and took the same line.
don't think they were supported in it by one single
Ioththeorugmhetmbthear tofthteheprCoapboisnaelt.      All my   colleagues and
                                                  in   itself  was one which
Icould not be creditably or successfully opposed.
suggested that all the political dangers feared by
Palmerston might be averted by making the canal a
Ijoint enterprise with other nations, and by placing it
under some international control. In this                            was
supported by the whole Cabinet, and under this influ
ence Clarendon was moved somewhat from his original

position. But Palmerston remained as hostile as ever.
He seemed quite ready to risk a quarrel with France
rather than to consent to any such canal. The result
at that time was curious. Clarendon conveyed to
Louis Napoleon how very strong a feeling on the subject
existed on Palmerston's part, and the
                                                               Emperor, ·.on
Ifreceiving this, said at once to Cowley : '                    you will say
Inothing more on the subject, will take care that my
people shall let it drop.' There could not be a more

1855]           PROGRESS OF THE SIEGE  569

Istnriekvinegr  proof of the personal  influence of Palmerston.
                quite knew whether it  was a feeling of personal
gratitude on the part of the Emperor for the early
support Palmerston had given to him at the time of the
coup d'etat, or whether it was simply part of his deter
mination at that time to consolidate his alliance with us,
and to run no risks of alienation.
Neither this nor any other question of political in
terest, however important, could then dwell upon my
mind, as compared with the terrible and engrossing
anxiety of the great siege which had been so long trying
our utmost military strength, and in which, up till that
Idate, no victory had been achieved at all decisive of suc

cess. was not made less anxious by reading an impres
sive Memorandum to the Cabinet from the Queen, calling
upon us to take due note of the warnings of General

Simpson, and to see that, if by misfortune our army
should be detained for another winter in the Crimea,
Iit should be provided with every possible comfort in its
lines.          had no confidence whatever in Palmerston's
' must,' nor any perfect reliance on Panmure. Under

Ithese conditions, it may be imagined with what joy
hailed every symptom which seemed to indicate any
real progress of the attack, against the magnificent
defence of our great adversary.

   At last, on the 17th of August, one such symptom
did reach us under very peculiar conditions, and was an
immense relief to us all. On the previous night a tele
gram from Berlin had reached Clarendon, saying that

it was known in that capital that Gortschakoff had been
ordered by the Russian Government to attack our
position before Sebastopol with his whole army. We
had hardly sat for an hour at the Cabinet when a tele
gram reached us from Simpson, to say that the Russian
army, 60,000 strong, had just attacked the French and
Sardinian fronts on the Tchernaya, and had been re
pulsed with the loss of between 4,000 and 5,000 men,
and with little loss to the allies. This was great news.

It indicated the intolerable pressure felt by Russia in

570 PROPOSAL FOR TREATY WITH SWEDEN [chap, xxt

maintaining the defence, and the comparative weakness
of her means of attack upon us by any force that could
I Ibe gathered outside the fortress.
At this Cabinet had another battle to fight against
the projected treaty of guarantee to Sweden.  fought
Iit strenuously against Palmerston, almost single-handed,

for had little help from my colleagues, who seemed

shy and intimidated by Palmerston's attitude. On
the other hand, very few of them supported him, and
these few only half-heartedly. Clarendon was evi
dently entirely under Palmerston's guidance, and took
no very decided part, the final result being that both
I IPalmerston and Clarendon allowed the subject to drop ;

and think did some good in helping to free the
country from a serious danger, by which we might have
been involved, at the pleasure of Russia, in a difficult
war at any time.
Among the trials of this time to me, although a
I Iminor one, was the somewhat altered footing on which

of necessity was placed with Lord Aberdeen. could
not have that unreserved consultation and intercourse

Iwhich had enjoyed before, because his policy now

Iappeared to me to be one of peace at any price, and
thought him much under the influence of Gladstone in
denouncing any effectual limitation of Russian pre
ponderance in   the Black Sea.    They   had themselves
been parties   to the ' Third   Point '  as an essential
condition of peace, and there was no meaning in
that point and no sense in the attack upon Sebastopol,
except with a view to strike a great blow at the naval
power of Russia in the Euxine. Still, my affection for
Aberdeen, and my confidence in the almost austere
integrity of his mind, led me not infrequently to my

Iold haunt at his house. As at this time was about
Ito leave London for Scotland, went to see him in
September, and found him in company with Graham.
IThis conjunction,  felt, redoubled the antagonism
Iwith which should be encountered. Himself an
excellent and high-minded man, Graham was sus

1855]  LORD ABERDEEN AND PALMERSTON  571

Ipicious of others, and especially of those from whom

he differed greatly. knew his dislike of Palmerston,
and his ineradicable suspicion of Palmerston' s inten
tions. He and Gladstone had now taken up the

championship of Lord John Russell, because Lord John
had patronized the Austrian proposals, and because
Palmerston's Government had declared them in

adequate.

CHAPTER XXVI

                1855

MEETMRINEASGSITGENROA-FGTIEONNBERRIATOLISFH--PPRRAIVSOSYPOOCSSIAAELTASILO--NFOARPAPPTOEIANCTGEELDASGOPWOST

I must now, however, retrace my steps a little, to
narrate and explain an episode in my life which
had some permanent effects upon it. The Council
of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science, then still in the first flush of its public
interest and renown, had in 1854 appointed Glasgow
as its next place of meeting, and, by a most unex
pected action, had designated me as its President
Ifor that occasion. Greatly as     valued this high
Ihonour, knew well, of course, how much extraneous
circumstances had entered into it. My territorial
position in the West of Scotland, of which Glasgow is
the capital, had told for much. My personal friend
ship with almost all the founders and early leaders of
the Association told for more. There was, however,
Iat least the shadow of a scientific excuse for the

honour they did me. The discovery had made of a
fine series of tertiary leaves and ferns in the Isle of
Mull, in a bed underlying typical  bItasathltricewroclikgsh, t
a discovery of real importance.                                 was
                                                                  on
the geological date of the enormous volcanic area
which stretches from Antrim to Greenland, and
presented, more perfectly than anywhere else, the
forms of a rich and beautiful vegetation which had

672

1855] BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW 573

Icovered a country now utterly destroyed. Still,
could not but look forward with some anxiety to the
dasusteymobf lyd.elivTeorintghisanduotpye,nitnhgeraedfodrrees, sI  to such an
                                                                   had been     august
                                                                               turning
my attention, and in all the intervals of political
I Ioccupation and engagements during the earlier months

of 1855 read assiduously all that could obtain on
I Igeology and comparative anatomy. On the latter sub

ject, used to attend as often as could the lectures
Idelivered by Professor Owen at the Royal College of
SuIrtgewoanss,thtoe  which   have already alluded.                             that its
                     custom  of the British Association
President for the year should occupy the chair again at
its next meeting, but only as a formality, and that he
should then vacate it in favour of his successor. Lord

Wrottesley was my predecessor, and, under the usual

Icustom, should have met him only for a moment in the
Iinterchange of office. wished, however, to have some
conversation with him before the delivery of my
address, and gladly accepted his invitation to visit him
at his place in Staffordshire, on my way to Scotland.
Lord Wrottesley was an astronomer, and following,
though on a much smaller scale, the example of Lord
Rosse in Ireland, he had done some good work in a fine
Iprivate observatory erected at his own home.                                  went
by rail to Wolverhampton,      anI dhatdhennecveerdrboevfeoreinseeann
open carriage to Wrottesley.
what is well called the Black  Country-- the great coal
field that stretches from Wolverhampton to Dudley.
No other mineral district presents an aspect quite so
odious. The bowels of the earth appear to have been
lifted out, and so spread and heaped upon the surface,
that agriculture seems to be destroyed, and the whole
country to be given up to carelessness and waste.
IThe air was thick with smoke, and the only objects seen
through it were unsightly chimneys.                                was, however,
surprised and delighted to find that every stage of a
drive to the west seemed to lift me more and more out
of this pandemonium, and in the course of a few miles

574 MEETING OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION [chap, xxvt

Iof a rapidly ascending road found myself in a fine
upland country, with a healthy vegetation and pros
perIofuosu-nlodokaitngWrfoatrtmessl.ey a comfortable and commodious
house, whilst the near dome of the observatory gave
pleasant token of the scientific tastes and pursuits of
Imy excellent host. To my infinite surprise, the first

guest to whom was introduced was Sir John Bur-
goyne, the man of all others who had been so long
dwelling on my mind, associated at first with many
Ihopes, but latterly with many and terrible misgivings.

  found that he was a connection by marriage of the
Wrottesley family. Among the changes consequent
on Lord Raglan's death, Panmure had managed to pro
cure Burgoyne's return home, to which he was not
himself averse, because the French Engineers and he
Iwere not agreed, and his position had become un

comfortable. think he was the last of the Peninsular
staff to whom recourse was considered possible for
active service in the field. Of course, there was much

Ithat should have liked to know from him, but on
Iwhich could hardly question him, without indicating
impressions which might have given him pain. But
there was one point on which he gave me a full and
                         and that was    rheisferarnesdw--erthatot
Iinteresting explanation,  have already

the loose idea to which
on the ' flank march ' from the Alma to Balaclava, our
army might have taken Sebastopol without difficulty,
by an assault on its rear. Burgoyne told me that the
Russian army was at least 25,000 strong ; that our own
army was destitute of any heavy artillery ; that
Sebastopol, though not defended on that side by any
continuous works, was defended by separate forts ;
and that any failure of our attack would certainly have
exposed our army to very serious danger. To my
civilian understanding his explanation was sufficient,
even although the possibility of an accidental success,
owing to surprise, be not excluded from the case.
Generals responsible for large armies aiming at great

1855]                            WROTTESLEY                              575

enterprises are hardly free to play with those at a game
of chance, and to risk everything on the unforeseen

and unexpected.
The next day Lord Wrottesley gave me a fine ex
ample of   tohfaltifew--hicthhe                            to me one   of the
pleasures                        has always   been         landscape.     The
                                  sight of a  great
sudden escape from a hideous country to one of fresh
ness and beauty which had surprised and delighted me
tothifmetehdseatyocboaeaflgorrmeeaetwadsauesrpentshow--ofsbcyEienmngtaliasfisnceadsllyoafreerexodpvlaseairnnlaedidsdt.o--nesMoamannedy
conglomerate. Wolverhampton and its black country
lies at the eastern edge of one of those overlying
masses, which forms a high tableland to the west.
Wrottesley is situated on the top of this tableland,
which to the west again forms a high ridge, with a
sudden escarpment or declivity falling in the same
direction. From a particular point, not far from
Wrottesley, the whole of this part of England down
to the valley of the Severn, and to the hills of Wales

beyond, breaks suddenly on the view, if we penetrate
a narrow belt of wood and stand at its western edge.
From that point there                    beulsreswt huepreoninusEnagflianned.panoItrawmaas

Isuch as have not seen
Inot that sea
Iwhen was
           of foliage                    which had      admItirewdassoa  much
           a boy in                      Warwickshire.                    view

including a wide stretch of very various country sloping
to the Severn,   and   beyond the Severn                   ranging over the
hills of Wales.        must have made a                    great impression
                   It
Iupon me, for now seem to remember it distinctly,
Iafter the lapse of forty-five years.                      thought it
gvilsoirbioleusw. ateTrh--erneeitwhaesr  but one fault.      There was no
                                         sea nor lake nor
                                                           rSiveevre. rn --Thtihsatwaist
due to one curious peculiarity of the
flows everywhere between such steep banks that it is in
visible till you are upon it. Even where it flows through
some level tract, as it does between Tewkesbury and
Worcester, it glides between high banks of mud, gene
rally richly foliaged with willow-bushes and wild weeds

576 MEETING OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION [chap, xxvi

Ifull of birds. In the wide range of view which saw
from Wrottesley there was no gleam of water, although
the elevation on which we stood was a high one, and a
long course of the Severn was commanded from it.
But it was a lovely country, with every variety of
English beauty and of English homes.
INext day resumed my journey to Scotland, and it
Iwas on arriving at the station at Glasgow that met
Ithe great news

describe what
of the fall         owfasSetboasmtoep--ol.not  can never
this news                                      from any
feeling of mere military triumph or glory, for, indeed,
there was very little of that element involved, seeing
that our special assault of the Redan had failed,
and the rush of the French into the Malakoff when
            was at dinner was                                un
             accidental success       --a bmutost            felt
Ithe Russian garrison

expected and almost
that we were lightened at once of a load of anxieties
Iand dangers of the most serious kind, and that our

policy in attacking Sebastopol, of which never had
Iany doubt from a political point of view, had at last
received its final vindication.  still feel as if it had
been a great day in my life, and as if all its surrounding
Iscenes at that time were bathed in the light of a satis

faction and a thankfulness such as have never known
elsewhere in my public life.
  IFrom      drove  mtoyJoorwdna--nhJiallm, ethseSmhoimthe,  of my
                                                             where
father's    -- and
Glasgow
old friend
I had been invited to spend the days devoted to the
proceedings of the Association. This was a very great
pleasure to me, arising from a peculiar cause. Through

Iout life have had a very tender and sorrowful recollec
Ition of my mother's death, though was then only five
years of age. An image of her, which, though faint
Iand shadowy, was nevertheless indelible, often rose

before me, and used to feel some envy of those who
enjoyed the presence of a living mother in some
ascending path of life. Jordanhill was a small but
valuable estate about three miles to the west of
Glasgow. The house crowned one of the low hills

1855]            PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS                                           577

which stretch along above the Dumbarton and
Argyllshire road. My mother had often lived there
with the Smiths, who were her earliest and most
intimate friends. Mrs. Smith attended her closely
during her last illness, and was with her when she
died, and although now she also was gone, the whole
place and the very name were full to me of tender

Iassociations. As to James Smith himself, never
could forget how his eager conversations with my
father had stimulated my early intellectual activities,
and how he had given me my earliest lesson in at
least one great  branch of    nIatwuarsalvherisytosroyr.ry
    On reaching  Jordanhill,                                to  find            that

he was confined to bed, and prohibited from attending
the meeting. My wife had joined me from London,
and we had a most agreeable and interesting party in
the house, including Sir Charles Lyell and his very
pretty and clever wife, Sir Roderick Murchison, and
Colonel (afterwards Sir) Edward Sabine, then President
of the Royal Society. Terrestrial magnetism was his
special subject, and he had done distinguished work
upon it in Arctic voyages. He was a man of great
modesty and refinement of manners, and an old and
intimate friend of James Smith.
I delivered my presidential address in Glasgow on
I Ithe                                                                          that it

was                                                                              atten
       1s1utchceSsespfutel--mbaet rl.east,thininhkoldimngaythfeairglyenesraayl
tion of a very large audience for more than an hour.
The attention of a Glasgow audience is remarkable,
but in an address on science, some ideas unfamiliar
to many might make it difficult to follow with full
Icomprehension.  felt, however, one difficulty under
Iwhich of necessity laboured. Unlike a speech and
amnadnyI  lectures, the address was   a written document,
          was, of course, obliged to
                                      read it. In any long
reading the management of the voice is most difficult.
          becomes monotonous,                                  inbauttteIntwioans
          who listen. tried to
The tone                         and induces                ;
                                  resist this
Iin those
Iquite conscious that did so with very partial success.
vol. i.
                                                                37

578 MEETING OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION [chap, xxvi

IOf this had one amusing indication at the close.
Among the distinguished men who were near me on the
platform was the great Professor Whewell of Cambridge,
Master of Trinity, and author of the ' History of the
Inductive Sciences.' His countenance was one of
singular energy and power, with a light blue eye of great
penetration, and his forehead was extraordinarily
broad and      mnoawssiwveh. ollyHgisrehye--adalwtoagsetchoevreraedvewryithstrsihkoinrtg,
curly hair,
figure. He was then well advanced in life, and listening
Ifor more than an hour in rather a hot room had produced

its natural effect upon him. But when stopped he
awoke instantly, and, starting up, with perhaps some
lingering impression of the earlier part, he warmly
congratulated me on the excellence of my performance.
  A great part of my address   Ihwada,s  of course, only a
                                         glad to throw one
local and temporary interest.
Istone upon the grave that had lately closed over

Edward Forbes. Of all the scientific men have ever
known, with the two exceptions of the great Agassiz
and James Simpson, Edward Forbes had the greatest
personal charm. He was one of those few men in whom
        overflows into every  form and feature of the face
genius  even visible in the   movement of his hands.        I;
it was
shall never forget seeing him lecturing in Edinburgh, and
observing how with a little bit of chalk he left on the
blackboard, with apparently automatic facility and
grace, the exquisite curves of the molluscan shells.
All of us who knew him, and thousands who did not,
had lately felt, on his death, that it was an irreparable
loss to science and to the happy meetings of scientific
men. There were, however, a few passages in my
address which had a wider reference, and which stand
in closer relation to the work of my later life. One of
these concerned the only great law or principle which
wI ansevtheer  subject of  controversy in the science of geology.
               had been    able to accept Lyell's doctrine that
nothing had happened in the past history of the globe
which is not also happening now, and which is not

                      DISCUSSION WITH LYELL                               579

capable of exhibiting the same results if only a long

Ienough time is allowed to elapse. Living as did in a
country where all the hills indicate great earth move

Iments, of which we have no experience now, thought
Ithis theory altogether overdone, although recognised

the service it had rendered in the able hands of Lyell,
in teaching us all to see, as we should not else have
done, what may be the cumulative
now working everywhere around us.                          effects  of causes
                                                                    of course,
                                                           It was,
impossible for me to enter into this controversy in my
Ipresidential

duce into it
         address. But                was determined                 otpoiniionntr--o
                                  indication of my
         some passing
Iall the more because was speaking in the presence of
Imy friend Lyell.         accordingly contrived            Itocomdopatrheids
                      form of an illustration.
incidentally in the
the gradual advance of science generally to the slow
progress of ordinary geological changes, and the occa
sional influence of great individual men of extraordinary
genius and achievement to the sudden and violent
changes which must have, as occasionally, done much
to transform the surfaces of the earth.
    Lyell, during our drive back to Jordanhill, told me
Ithat

and
    he   hwahdant oI  objection   to offer to anything              had said ;
    yet               did say is  fatal to any extreme              uniformi-
tarianism, because it brings in recurring periods of
catastrophe as a part of the ordinary series of operation.
It  required some little pluck to read out in              :th'eItpriessternucee,
    Sir Charles Lyell the following sentence
of
indeed, that there have been a few such men (men who
have been epoch-makers), just as there have been
periods of sudden geological operations which have
upheaved at once stupendous and enduring monu
ments.'
   This comparison    between     the building up of scientific
knowledge and the     building    up of our habitable globe --
each of them through alternations of slow changes
absolutely imperceptible, and then of a few special
mpeerniotdss--diwstainsguaischoemd pbaryisroanpidwhanicdh  conspicuous    develop
                                                             conciliated    assent.

                                                           37--2

580 MEETING OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION [chap, xxvi

IIt seemed

strongest
             otfoasllupaprgourtmtehnetsdoinctrNinaetuirte--entfhoercesdtrebnygththaotf
a true analogy.          afterwards came to see still more
clearly that it was quite reconcilable with all that was
true in Lyell's teaching. The perfect continuity of
causation    haIst  no              connection  with uniformity
of effects.          is  necessary  compatible   with the occa
                         perfectly
Isional outburst of the most tremendous energies ; and

in later life brought out this argument in force.
Meantime it was enough for me to have challenged the
Igreat teacher of uniformitarianism in his own presence,

and to find that he saw nothing in what stated to
which he could object.
There were two other passages in my address which
gave me satisfaction at the time and have given
me pleasure since. They both concerned questions
of the greatest interest in science. One of them con
tained an element of definition, and the other an element
of prophecy, which were in advance of their time, and
                             have recurred to me frequently
                              to be remembered that when
Iiwnhilcahtercoynesaerqs.uenIttlyis
spoke in 1855, Darwin had not yet appeared above the
horizon. The method of creation in the organic world
was not even a matter of common speculation. The
theories of Lamarck had never attracted much atten
tion in England. An anonymous book, ' The Vestiges
of Creation,' now known as having been the production
of Robert Chambers, had indeed made a momentary
noise. Hugh Miller's reply to it, ' The Footprints of
the Creator,' was full of suggestiveness and of beauty
of conception. But neither of them satisfied the scien
tific understanding that any tangible clue had been
found to the mysteries of creation. Cuvier was master
of the situation, and his great pupil Owen was not only
in firm possession of all that was yet scientifically known
of the facts of palaeontology, but was the only author
who had so correlated those facts as to raise of necessity
Iquestions and suggestions of a transcendental character.
    had closely studied his two great works, ' On the

1855]  ANTICIPATION OF DARWIN'S THEORY                581

IHomologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton ' and ' On the
Nature of Limbs.'     had heard many of his lectures,
and all these had left on my mind an impression that
he himself believed that somehow or another different
races of animals had descended from each other by

Iordinary generation. He never said so. But had a
feeling that he was withheld from saying so by con
siderations akin to those which had determined Robert
Chambers to write in this sense anonymously. From
whatever cause, Owen's works did not raise the question,
Iexcept silently, in thoughtful and speculative minds.
   When spoke at Glasgow in 1855, the   voice  of Science
was altogether silent on the subject.          a satisfac
                                        It is
Ition, therefore, to me to remember that in my address

  so stated the known facts of the case, as to give some
precision to the question raised, as that question pre
sented itself to my own mind. And my conception of
Ithat                                the writings of
                                     is the meaning
' In
        question was   founded on                      Owen.
       physiology,'   asked, ' what                   of that
great law of adherence to type and pattern, standing
behind as it were and in reserve of that other law by
which organic structures are specially adapted to special
modes of life ? What is the relation between those
two laws ? and can any light be cast upon it, derived
from the history of extinct forms or from the conditions
to which we find that existing forms are subject ?' No
exhaustive answer has ever been given to this ques

Ition. Feeling as did then the profound mysteries
Iobviously involved in it, should have been surprised
Iindeed if could have foreseen that, within a few years,
half the scientific world would be carried off their feet
by an answer which was a verbal         mIettawpahsort,hudsertihvaetd,
from the skill of artificial breeders.
Iwhen the Darwinian discussion came, was at least
Ibetter prepared for it than many others. had a strong
sense of what was wanted, and a high appreciation of
the intellectual elements required in any tolerable
solution. The demonstration of this has been one of
the chief labours of my later life.
                                               ,

582 MEETING 0E BRITISH ASSOCIATION [chap, xxvi

IThe other passage in my address to which have
alluded  is          which has  egnivtiernelymemysomowen s--attihsfaatctiisont,o
because         one  a passage
         it     was
say, a passage giving expression to a conviction to which
I had been led by solitary thought, and without, so far
Ias can  remember,   Iany suggestion from   an  external
         From early                             a strong
source.              years had a vague     but
impression of the unity of Nature, to the effect that all
her phenomena and laws were so closely correlated
with each other that every special fact, however acci
dental or solitary it may seem to be, is a clue to a whole
Irange of corresponding facts, if only we could discover
them.           had applied this thought to the great dis
covery of Dr. Jenner, and had felt and had often
expressed the utmost confidence that it could not
represent a solitary fact in Nature, and that other
diseases would turn out to be attackable on the same
principle of some variety of inoculation. The passage
in my address was very short, intended merely as a hint
to those who could prosecute the subject by research :

' In medicine, what is the action of specifics ? and are
there no more discoveries to be made such as rewarded
the observation of Jenner in the almost total extinction
Iof a fearful and frequent scourge ?'      need not say
Ithat after the lapse of many years have seen realized
the significant anticipations of my address, delivered
fifty-four years ago. The possibility of modifying the
virulence of acute diseases by the previous introduc
tion of their germs, under regulated and favourable con
ditions, has now been recognised as a branch of science,
                               been made in the investigation
oafndit.somIte   progress has  investigation, which no doubt it
                needs further

will receive. Meanwhile my anticipation has been
fulfilled, and a very mysterious law of Nature has been
revealed, with many physiological implications.
On leaving Jordanhill, we went to Erskine, and after
I Ia short stay there with my sister-in-law, Lady Blantyre,

my wife and proceeded to Inveraray, where had
asked several scientific men to come when they left

1855] NAPOLEON III. AND TERMS OF PEACE 583

IGlasgow.  had pleasure in pointing out to them, and
especially to Professor Hopkins of Cambridge, the
phenomena of our crystalline rocks there, which seemed
to me to be the result of great earth movements-- not
Ivolcanic, but in the nature of subsidences along lines of
weakness in the earth's crust.                            pointed out especially
t--hepowrapyhyirniews hiachndthgeradneietpe-sse--atheadd
                                                          and historic  material
                                                          oozed out     between
the planes of stratification in the sedimentary beds as
they tumbled in, those planes of stratification having
evidently been the lines of least  rIessihstoawnecde      to the molten
                                                          them a speci
material below. In particular,
men of a fragment of our slaty rock, held fast in the
middle of a block of the porphyry, the hard slate having
evidently fallen into the hot and viscous material
which was being squeezed through the subsiding
beds. Hopkins was then the leading authority on
dynamic geology, and my views seemed to meet with
his acceptance.

  I had, however, but a short holiday from politics, as
I was bound to make my appearance at Balmoral, as
IMinister-in-Attendance on the Queen. There found

Granville, and heard from him something of what was
going on among the sections in the Cabinet. He had
Iheard of a regular agreement      between                Gladstone     and
                                    did not               believe it.
Graham to join Disraeli, but                                              It
showed, however, how men's suspicions then pointed.
On the 24th an officer arrived, with the despatches of
General Simpson on   thIe   capture of Sebastopol.
                           saw a Memorandum from                        the
   A few days later
French Emperor on the terms of peace. He was in
favour of keeping Sebastopol in the hands of the allies.
But the most important part of this paper was that in
which he advocated our taking up the cause of the Poles,
by reconstituting the Grand Duchy of Warsaw as a

Iconstitutional monarchy, as contemplated in 1815.
had a long conversation on this subject with Prince
Albert, by whom it was discussed with that temperate
Iwisdom which was quite a gift in him.                                  was then.

584            PROPOSALS FOR PEACE              [CHAP. XXVI

and had always been, thoroughly opposed to any
extension of the area of the war, the original objects of
Iwhich were quite enough to tax all our powers.  told
Ithe Prince also that did not think any of the old
arrangements about the Duchy of Warsaw had in them
the elements of possible stability, and that the reattain-
ment of them was not worth the cost. The Prince

dwelt on another objection, broader than any other.

He hoped, he said, that the result of the Crimean War
would tend to deliver the Northern Courts of Europe
from the undue influence and fear of Russia ; but the
question of Poland would tend to reunite them, and
Ithus endanger the best results of our own struggle in
the East.  quite agreed in this objection too. The
significance of it was evidently far-reaching.
Lord Panmure, who appointed General Simpson,
thought himself obliged at last to send him a telegram
complaining of his inactivity, upon which he resigned.
Then, when he passed off the stage, who was appointed
by our War Office to succeed him ? General Codring-

Iton, another officer of about the same calibre.
distrusted both these appointments from the first,
because we never could get from the War Office any
explanation or justification of its preference, or any
definite characteristics even ascribed to the men

Iselected.     knew absolutely nothing of the staff of

   Of course,
Iofficers from whom we had to choose, but, judging by

what we heard from Panmure, distrusted the qualifi
cations of those from whom our choice had to be made.
How very unsatisfactory the process was by which this
selection was made is best indicated by an interesting
account of it written  to me    bIy  Palmerston, in reply to a
letter of mine. Of     course,       could do nothing at all,
except urge Palmerston himself to look carefully into
Ithe matter, remembering how all-important the choice
of Simpson's successor might be.     was in Scotland
at the time, but Palmerston very kindly sent to me
the following full account, written on three sheets of

1855] GENERAL SIMPSON'S RESIGNATION           585

Ilarge letter-paper --the finest specimen had ever seen

of his magnificent and characteristic handwriting :

'My dear Duke of Argyll,                   ' Broadlands,
                                                    ' October 13, 1855.
     ' I am glad to find by your
                                  letter of the 1 1th that your

mind has been travelling in the same track upon the subject of the
command of the army as the minds of those of your colleagues who

have met from time to time in Downing Street.
   ' The matter stands thus : Simpson has definitely resigned, and

his resignation has been accepted. There is a little sparring

match still going on between him and Panmure as to the immediate

cause. He says it was a rough telegraphic message, or, as we now

call it, a telegram, from Panmure about his inactivity. Panmure
maintains that such cannot have been the real cause, and that it

must have been consciousness of want of health and strength of

mind for the labour and responsibility of his command. But the

question has been who should succeed him. Sir George Brown, next
in seniority, has come home ill, and though he is an excellent

soldier and a good General of division, nobody would advise that

he should be sent out again to command. Sir Colin Campbell

comes next by seniority, but we all determined some months ago

that, with all his merits, which are great, he would not make a

good Commander-in-Chief, and all who know him confirm this

opinion ; and as nothing has happened since our decision was taken

to make us think it was erroneous, we abide by it. After him

come Burrard and Rokeby, two good men, but not Commanders-in-
Chief. Then comes Codrington. He was pointed out by all two

months ago as the fittest for chief command.  Has anything

happened since to alter the opinion then entertained of him ?

Some people think that he did not properly manage the assault of
the Redan on the 8th. We do not, on the whole, think that any

real blame attaches to him for the failure on that day. The thing

attempted was scarcely possible, and the only doubt is whether

Simpson was justified in sacrificing so many men in an assault which
the experience of the 18 June ought to have shown could not succeed,
and which could only be intended as a diversion in favour of the

French attack on the Malakoff. If ladders were short and tools

586                 PROPOSALS FOR PEACE  [chap. XXVI

wanting, that was the fault of the Commander-in-Chief and of the

Engineer officers ; as to the handling of the force allotted for the

assault, including the supports, Codrington and Markham, under
whom that force was placed, are the two best Generals with the

army, and it is presumable that they did the best under the
circumstances of the case, and the private accounts we have
received confirm that supposition. We have therefore come to the
conclusion that the former decision of the Cabinet should be

adhered to, and that the command should be given to Codrington.

Some persons have thought of General Windham, but it is too

soon to put him in so responsible a situation as Commander-in-

Chief. He has never till now commanded anything but a company

Iin the Guards. He has lately, believe, had some regimental

command or staff appointment, and he showed on the 8th courage,
daring, presence of mind. These qualities go towards making a

good General, but there are others equally necessary, and he has
had no opportunity of showing whether he possesses them or not.

At the next meeting of the Cabinet on Monday we shall probably

approve Panmure's letters to Simpson to accept his resignation
formally ; to Codrington to inform him of his appointment ; and to
Colin Campbell to soothe his feelings and to assure him that his

distinguished merits and great services are duly appreciated,

though the Government has chosen another officer for the vacant

command.                      ' Yours sincerely,
                                                ' Palmers·ton."

IIt is needless to say that had no positive knowledge
Ienabling me to answer this letter critically.  could
Iiomnplyreascsqiounie.sceI.fBut it gave me a most unsatisfactory
                              had no knowledge, the writer evi
dently had about as little. He took what was told him
at the War Office by those who had designated Simpson,
and who now seemed to be themselves guided by a
Imixed regard for mere seniority and by personal pre
judices or gossip.            remember, too, that we were told
at that time that Sir Colin Campbell could not speak
French, whereas later we all came to know that he spoke
it excellently well. There was some desperate jealousy

1855]     SIR COLIN CAMPBELL                       587

of Sir Colin among the military staff. When seniority
pointed to Sir Colin Campbell, it was at once set aside,
because some said that, although he was a good brigade
officer,  he could not safely be   entrusted  with an army.
          was the one officer who  had done   a very brilliant
Yet he
deed during the siege, in the repulse by a single regiment

Iof a formidable attack of Russian cavalry on Balaclava.

   did not then know Sir Colin personally. But the
impression left on others who did know him had
Ireached my ears, and it did not increase my confidence

in Palmerston's decision when came to know that the
Queen had wished Sir Colin to be appointed. Events
soon proved what nonsense had been allowed to stand
in the way of an appointment which would undoubtedly
have been the safest. Only two years later, Sir Colin's
rCehpiuetfadtiuorningletdhetoaghoisnybeoifntgheapgpreoainttIenddiaCnomMmuatnindye.r-inI-f
Ieimtvaewnradsa--SsqioruldiCcikeonrlienssshC,oawmdeepdcbisetihloleni,nhioghrhigseasnbtirziacllatiiaponantc, itcieaasmndpoaftigacncotm--in

Oudh, and confess it still provokes me to think of
what we might have lost by the choice of Codrington
over him, if the war  had                          fortunately,
                           gone    on  long,  as,
it did not.
IOn the 1st of October returned to my wife at
IRosneath, enjoying intensely there, as always did,
the beautiful landscapes of my childhood and early
youth, the gleaming waters of a long sea-loch, seen
through the stems of stately trees fringing its shores
and dropping beach-mast into tides which flowed
round the world. The rare quiet and privacy of the
shores was to me delightful, with no public road
between us and the sea, and with winding bays and
creeks, giving an intricate outline of woods, rocks,
and water. And then there was the whole northern
horizon only ten miles off, fringing the sky with a
long, continuous chain of blue mountains, with lines of
stratification so bent and broken and twisted that it
was hard to trace their continuity at all. They were

588                   PROPOSALS FOR PEACE     [chap, xxvi

perpetually raising, in the form of an exquisite picture,
Iallhtahde  unsolved  problems of dynamical   geology which
             been so  lately discussing with  my friends at

Glasgow.
My peace at Rosneath was not much disturbed by
a matter which now suddenly made a great noise.
This was a squabble, threatening to be a quarrel,
Ibetween Stratford de Redcliffe and the Sultan.  had
Iseen the authentic account of it when was at Bal
moral. Stratford had gone to the Crimea to present
the Order of the Bath to certain officers of the army.
When he was away, the Sultan had restored to office
and to favour a brother-in-law of his own, who was

notoriously even more corrupt than other Pashas.
Stratford, on his return to Constantinople, demanded
an audience of the Sultan, and began to read to him a
remonstrance which he had drawn up. The Sultan
showed such nearly uncontrollable anger that Stratford
had to stop and to appease him as best he could.
There was some talk in the Cabinet of recalling Strat
ford, and there were very severe articles in the Times
against him. Stratford's hot temper and imperious
disposition were a perpetual anxiety to the Foreign
Minister, whilst, on the other hand, his great ability
and his great power over the Turkish Government
made him invaluable to us, when we could get him to
run true to our instructions. The result always was,
when it came to the point, that Palmerston flinched
from the extreme step of recalling him ; and the only
incident really curious about this particular affair was
that Palmerston took it into his head that Disraeli might

Ipossibly accept Stratford's place if he were recalled.

The opportunity never arose, but cannot conceive that
Disraeli would ever have left his game at home for such

Ia precarious position in the East.
     heard at this time that Gladstone had some reason
to know or to suspect that Palmerston was not thinking
of peace, and was even eager for an extended war.
Granville had gone to Paris, and wrote to me that the

1855]                   CAPTURE OF KHERSON                                         589

French Emperor was entirely devoted to our alliance,
that his own Minister, Walewski, had no influence with
him, and that he would act on the question of peace
exactly as we might desire. Granville accordingly
thought it a good time to come to an understanding
as to what was to be demanded or accepted. But
Palmerston at once objected, writing a long and able
                        to the effect that Russia was not yet
Memorandum                               entirely agreed with Gran

I' half beaten
                        enough.'
Iville, as all along had insisted on the duty of making
Iup our own minds as soon as possible on the final
objects of the war.                 heard also from Canning in
London that Palmerston was ' snorting and pawing '
more than ever, and that it would be difficult to hold
him in when it came to terms. Canning himself, how
Iever, did not think that we should make any advances
to IRfuisnsiaPaalmt ethrsattonm'somMeenmt, oirnanwdhuicmh  also   agreed.
                                                           about  peace, when
he said that Russia was not yet ' beaten enough,' he
referred only to the state of matters at the actual seat
of war, he was entirely justified. The mere capture
of one half of Sebastopol by the allies might go but a
little way towards securing the objects of the war. The
Crimea, with all its approaches from the north,
            only a corner of the Sea                       of   Azof, was           still
excepting  the possession of Russia.                           had often
firmly in                                                  It                      been
intended to make an attack on some of those ap
proaches, but it was only now, when the siege of the
great fortress was at an end, that a force sufficient for
any such purpose had been available. Advantage,
however, of this change was at once taken, and a
general naval expedition, with a strong land force
embarked, had been sent off to attack Kherson, a

fortress of considerable strength, which Russia had
erisvtearbsli--shtehde  to protect  the  mouth  of one            of  her
                        Dnieper.                                                   great

On the 21st and 22nd of October we heard of the
complete success of this expedition.                       aKnhdersstoonrehs a--d
captured with all its garrison                                                     been
                                                                                   1,500

590                  PROPOSALS FOR PEACE                       [chap. XXVI

prisoners and 70 guns. This was a very consider
able  feat of arms,        weItll  calculated to produce an impor
tant  moral effect.                tended at least to make up that
I' sufficiency of beating ' which Palmerston so much
desired.  did not believe that it would enable us to get
up the great inland river to            Nikolaieff, which was an
important Russian arsenal.
                                        It must, however, harass
and annoy the Russians, and interfere with their
conItfidwenasceaitn  the   security of  the whole Crimea.
                     this   time that   the death of Molesworth
oimccpuorrrteadnstuodffdiceenslyo, fctahuesiCnagbainveat c--anthcyatinofotnheeoSfethcreetmaroyst
ship for the Colonies. Palmerston, after consulting
the Cabinet, determined to try again his old work of
fusion, and offered the post to young Lord Stanley.
In a long and excellent letter, Stanley refused to
separate from his father's party and friends, but
indicated that personally he had very little disagree
ment indeed with the policy of the Government as he
understood it. His own feeling generally led him to
oatphperrovceouonftriaesm. iniImwuams   of political interference    with
                                       strongly in favour of the
                                                                     offer,

writing in my journal as regarded Stanley personally :
' He is able, thoughtful, and courageous, which we
want above all things just now.' Granville wished

Inow to offer the post to Sidney Herbert. But this

regarded as out of the question, seeing that if he came
in he would be a source of weakness, because an object
Iof popular suspicion, and therefore less able to repre

sent the interests of peace than Stanley, who, felt
          dIitspiossseidgntifoicapnetacoef            as it could
sure, was                                                then took

Iobtained.
                                            as soon                         be
                                            the view
                                                                            of
Ithe political horizon that in my journal expressed it
thus : ' My belief is that Stanley has acted right, not
only for his own, but for the public interest, which is
deeply concerned in the reorganization of parties, and
Stanley's junction with us would have tended still
farIthweer nttoubpretoakLothnidsodnowton.a' ttend
                                                   a  Cabinet  held      \   fc
                                                                            the
                                                                     on

1855]            TREATY WITH SWEDEN                                 591

5th of November. It was mainly concerned with a
squabble between us and America, raised by the
American Government, who complained that we had
enlisted, under our new Foreign Enlistment Act, men
who were citizens of the United States, and had thus
violated their neutrality. Considering the number
of filibustering classes in America, and the very
loose control ever exercised over them by the Govern

Iment, thought this rather gratuitous picking of a
Iquarrel. An American despatch had seen at Bal
Imoral seemed to me rather insolent, but Clarendon's

reply, which had not seen till now, had been hot and
Inot well guarded. The American rejoinder was more
moderate in tone, and, thought,                     met  Clarendon's
points with very considerable effect.                    was charac
                                                     It
teristic of Palmerston that he at once attributed the
better tone of the American despatch to the effect of a
naval squadron which he and the Cabinet had sent out
to the West Indies about a fortnight before. When
Palmerston heard the more moderate terms of the
American reply, his remark was : ' The block ships
have done good !' But we reminded him that when the
despatch left, the squadron had not been heard of in
America, and it was still doubtful whether it would not

Irather do harm than good.

      found in a box in the Cabinet room a series of papers
on the old question of a treaty with Sweden, including a
                 territory  against Russia. This was the first
guarantee   oIf   had had   that the proposal was still alive,
intimation
and was being conducted as secretly as before, so far
as the Cabinet was concerned. Towards the end of our
meeting, Clarendon referred to the matter with great
shyness and obvious embarrassment, and spoke of
        tshueggeqsuteedstioanl,te'rWatihoants.      George Grey     at once
some                                            is  this treaty ?'  showing
raised
Ithat was not alone in being in complete ignorance of
Iwhat had been going on since had resisted stoutly the
whole project as in the highest degree inexpedient.
What we now heard could only increase our objections,

592             PROPOSALS FOR PEACE                  [chat, xxvi

for the King of Sweden asked for a separate and specific
clause securing that we should pay all the expenses of
any forces sent to his aid. Clarendon only objected
Ion the ground that it was needless, because it would
be so as a matter of course !           suggested that it would
                     Athtaatlltheevesnttsip, uIlahtoiopnedshthoualtditbwe opureld
be more reasonable
cisely the reverse.
be made clear that Sweden was to do something in her
own behalf, and that the whole burden of defending her
                Russia was not to fall  on England and France.
aI gwariontset  privately to Clarendon  after the Cabinet on this

and other points.
Clarendon read an important letter from Nesselrode,
saying that the time was not yet come for Russia to
propose any terms of peace, but that he could clearly
indicate at least the negative side of the question, and
specify some conditions that Russia never would
consent to. First, she would never cede the Crimea.
Secondly, she would never engage to abstain from re-
fortifying Sebastopol. Lastly, she never would agree
to any compulsory limitation of her fleets. This
Ideclaration put peace out of the question.
   On the 15th of November heard from Granville of
a proposal which to some little extent changed the tenor
of my daily life. Palmerston wished to offer the Duchy
of Lancaster to a Commoner, and to this end he wished
Harrowby to give it up, and to take the Post Office
                 But Harrowby was        a delicate   man,    had
                                         the work.           then
                his family, and dreaded              It was
Iinstead.

illness in
suggested that might be willing to take the Post
Office and give up the Privy Seal to Harrowby, who
would thus vacate the Duchy. Granville was em
Iployed to sound me on this change in my work and
position.       did not much like it. The Privy Seal
Iexactly suited me, as it gave me as much work, and

exactly the kind of work, which preferred, without
any mere departmental trouble. But, on the other

I Ihand, considered that, for so young a man, had
Ialready held and enjoyed it for a fair time, and that

1855]        AUSTRIA'S FRESH PROPOSALS                 593

ought not to stand in the way of any arrangement
Imore convenient to the Prime Minister and to the
Cabinet.     therefore wrote in this sense to Granville,
to Harrowby himself, and to Palmerston, saying that
I IthawtasI
       well  pleased  with my     present office,  but felt
       had   had my   fair share  of it, and was   willing to
take the Post Office. The vacancy in the Post Office
was caused by the designation of Canning, who held it,
to the Governor-Generalship of India.
  IOn the 19th of November, 1855, at one of Granville's

evening parties, heard from him that Austria had
again come forward as a negotiator between Russia
and the Western Powers, and had advanced proposi
Itions which had just arrived. Considering the utter

weariness and disgust which had felt so long with
I Ithe conduct of Austria in the recent Vienna negotia

tions, confess heard this news with some impatience,
but Granville told me that the new proposals of
Austria he considered excellent. They were these :
First, neutralization of the Black Sea. Second,
cession of one-half of Bessarabia. Third, independence
of the Danubian Principalities. Fourth, prohibition of
military arsenals. These terms were to be proposed
to Russia, and in the event of refusal Austria was
Ito break off diplomatic relations with Russia. The

French Emperor, was told, strongly insisted on our
immediate assent. Granville added that Clarendon
approved of these proposals, and had so written to
Palmerston, and that the Queen also was favourably
disposed. The French Ambassador (Persigny) came
in, and spoke to me eagerly on the subject. He
said that to his own Government he had always
taken the English line, which he described as : ' Wait
for the next campaign, when great things will be done
in the Baltic with armaments of a new class,' etc.
But the French people, he went on to say, desired peace.
The Emperor dreaded the war changing its character,
and, besides, he was in financial^difficulties. Persigny
played the old game of telling me that Russia would
vol. i.
                                                   38

594        PROPOSALS FOR PEACE                                     [chap, xxvi

certainly refuse the terms, as an inducement to me to
give my support to them in the Cabinet.
Persigny was a pleasant little fellow, with gentle
manlike manners and address, but he had been one of
the                      aadnhdereI nctesrtoafinlLyousihsouNldapnoloetonhavine
his   closest personal
     conspirator years,
accepted from him any assurance which might be ob
viously convenient for his diplomatic objects at the
Imoment.   discussed the proposals, however, with
Ihim on their merits, and finally told him that, so far
I I Itahsemcoguolodd.judgBeutwiIthtoouokt
                         further information,                  thought
                         care to add that                   would not
act in the hope he held out to me that the proposals
would be refused by Russia, but only, on the contrary,
in the hope and expectation that they might be

accepted.                                         20th, we         very im
poOrtnantht eCanbeixntetdamy,eeNtionvge. mbIetr  included   had a  member,
                                                            a new

for Palmerston had filled up the vacancy caused
by Molesworth's death by offering the Colonial Office
to Henry Labouchere, afterwards Lord Taunton. This
was a proposal in every way agreeable to me, as he
was an intimate friend, and had become a family con
nection by his marriage with Lady Mary Howard,
youngest sister of the Duchess of Sutherland. His
appointment was in perfect consonance with the policy
of fusion in the Cabinet, by which Palmerston had en
deavoured to establish as much continuity as possible
between the Aberdeen Government and his own.

Moreover, it was going back to the old Whig party, of
which Labouchere had been a distinguished member.

He had held the same office under Lord John Russell,
whilst at the same time he was entirely uncompromised
and uncommitted by having taken any obnoxious part
against either Aberdeen or Palmerston. On private
grounds he was in all ways a valuable addition to the
Cabinet. Born of a Huguenot family, and with un
mistakably French features, he was a thorough gentle
man, and a man of exceptionally delicate feelings of the

1855]      MR. H. LABOUCHERE AND THE WHIGS                      595

Ihighest honour. As an illustration of this feature in
his    character, may   mention an act of           his which, so
far    as my knowledge  goes, stands alone.
                                                      It was pro
posed that a new line of railway should pass through
his estate, which he thought would be disagreeable and
injurious. The promoting company therefore offered
him a large sum as compensation, which he accepted.
When the line was made, and when Labouchere had
some experience of its effects, he came to the conclusion
that his original fears had been groundless, and that
the railway was not an injury, but a benefit. He
           rteotuhrinmed--taortahree  company the
therefore                             and splendid  whole sum   they
had paid                                            expression  of a
character which was the very soul of honour. He was
full of the knowledge and love of art, with all the re
Isources of a refined and cultivated intellect.
                                                           was the

Imore glad of Labouchere's admission into our Cabinet

because knew he had been one of the Whigs who had
been mortified by the exclusion which happened to so
many of them when the Aberdeen Government had

been formed. In private conversation at the time
he told me that he thought Lord John Russell had

' sacrificed the honour of his friends.'

  IIt was on that occasion, in combating as did this
Ifeeling on his part, that first realized the extreme
narrowness of the old Whig party, and the almost ir
rational exclusiveness of the conceptions entertained
by them of what constituted a Whig. This was the
more remarkable since, of course, Labouchere was not
Ihimself a member of the Whig aristocracy, but only a

recruit from the middle classes. Yet found him as
restricted in this matter as if he had been a Howard or a
Fitzwilliam. In trying to show him how fairly and
Ievenly divided between the two old parties the Aber

deen Cabinet had been, included as a matter of course
Clarendon among the Whigs. Labouchere at once and
with some vehemence objected : ' Oh, Clarendon is not

Ia Whig ' ; and to this he adhered with persistency.

Never had realized so clearly how absolutely necessary
                                                    38--2

596  PROPOSALS FOR PEACE  [chap. XXVI

it had been to effect some great rupture in these effete

traditions, and to recast and reconstitute the sectional
parties into which political life in England had been
divided.

   At a meeting of the Cabinet Lord Lansdowne shook
his head and lifted his shaggy eyebrows when he heard
of new proposals coming from Vienna, but the strong
language of the French Emperor compelled serious
attention. Like all Frenchmen, he laid less stress on
the merits of the terms as a settlement of the Eastern
Question than on their merit as implicating Austria in
the event of Russian refusal. This was the old wild-

goose chase over again, from which we had suffered so
much during the former negotiations at Vienna, and
my conviction of Austria's hopeless cowardice in all
her relations with Russia made me regard this argument

Iof the Emperor with complete indifference. But the

terms in themselves thought good. Above all, the
neutralization of the Black Sea was an excellent solu

tion of the problem about Sebastopol. If Russia had

no motive to reconstitute that harbour as a great naval
arsenal, we could then give up what we could not well
keep. We heard of the usual by-play of bad faith
between the Emperor and his own Ministers. Walewski
showed the Austrian proposals to Cowley, telling him
not to tell the Emperor. Then the Emperor showed
them to Cowley, telling him not to tell Walewski ; and
the Emperor even showed such distrust of Walewski
that he wished Cowley to go to London to represent
more fully and faithfully the Emperor's opinion on the
whole matter.

    After a long discussion, the Cabinet agreed to express
willingness to allow Austria to make the proposal,
provided the following points were explained : First,
that the neutralization of the Black Sea must not be
provided for merely by ' separate agreement between
Russia and Turkey,' even although such agreement
were to be incorporated in the general treaty ; it must
form part of the general treaty itself. Second, that

1865]  COUNT WALEWSKI                            597

the Sea of Azof must be included as part of the Black
Sea. Third, that we wished to add a stipulation against
the re-erection of the fortress of Bomarsund, which we
had destroyed, on the Aland Islands in the Baltic.
Lastly, that, among the remaining subjects on which
we reserved a right to raise further discussion, we must
specially mention the eastern shores of the Black Sea,

--oarg,baeinrcasattuhspeeru,twtitenhgehaindprtoahvigisnocloaedsstgiutteehsmesre--t.hIatwSaethsv,iesraawml aosonfgthsutesodtwihreeercres

tion in which Palmerston had contemplated an enlarge
ment of the area of the war, and perhaps a great cam
paign in the following year. However, as a mere right
to raise a discussion on the subject, it was allowed to

pasIst. was evident that the whole thing went much
against the grain with Palmerston. But he was far
too able and too wise a man not to see that he could not
fight against both our French ally and the prevalent
feeling of his own Cabinet, and he gave way without
much fight on the proposals as a whole. He confessed,
too, that the neutralization of the Black Sea was the

one great condition which gave a real security.
Considering the very small weight which the French
Emperor attached to Walewski' s opinion, it seemed to
me very strange that he kept Walewski in the position
of his Foreign Minister. But his motives were purely
personal. Walewski was a natural son of the great
Napoleon by a beautiful Polish lady of the name of
Walewska. Although a much larger man than his
father, Walewski had an unmistakable look of him in
his face, particularly in his eyes and forehead. But
his countenance was without any intellectual power.
IHe was pompous, too, and self-important.        recollect
seeing him in a state of great offence at a concert at
Buckingham Palace, where he was obliged to occupy a
seat which he thought not becoming to his dignity.
The swellings of his indignation were most amusing,
and he seemed to think that by his attitude and stare

508  PROPOSALS FOR PEACE        [chap, xxvi

he could reproduce the terror which his illustrious
father's indignation had been accustomed to occasion.
Louis Napoleon was himself a far abler man, and it
was only natural that he should place no reliance on
the advice of his cousin. He took foreign affairs
almost entirely into his own hands, and occasionally
used his very considerable powers of speech to guide
the opinion of his people. Though not an orator, he
knew better than most men how to insinuate a great
deal in a very few words, yet without committing him
self to any definite conclusions. At this very juncture
he had availed himself of this resource to indicate that

he wanted peace. At a public ceremony in Paris on
the 15th of November the Emperor made a speech
which attracted great attention. The keynote of this
speech lay in the sentence, ' France has no hatreds,'
but she must have a peace which will solve nettement
tvheerIytobwsjaelysctsicmufptoor sawstihbiElcenhgntlaohnet dtwoaarsnudhsapsaetcbtePeiannlmuthneirdssetrostenan.kteenn.cIfe
                                                                                                                            a

                                                                                                                            it
could not be fairly said that they had a hatred of
Russia, because their hostile feeling to Russia was in
pursuit of a justifiable policy, yet it was certainly true
of the spirit animating at that time a great portion of
the people and the press. The whole tone of the
speech was peaceful, and Cowley, who was as decidedly

warlike, spoke of it to Clarendon as having ' done all
the mischief he expected.' But Cowley was so hot
about the war that he seemed almost to dread peace,
as in itself a horrible event and a great calamity. He
saw, however, the gravity of the situation, and was
disposed to counsel at least a partial acceptance,
though always with a view to the ultimate defeat of

Ithe proposals.                 went to Windsor to

   On the 21st November, 1855,
give up the Privy Seal, and to kiss hands on my accept
ance of the Post Office. On my going into the royal
closet, the Queen at once began to discuss the grave

proposals before us, and it was a great satisfaction to

1855]   NEUTRALIZATION OF THE BLACK SEA     599

me to find that both Her Majesty and the Prince
approved on the whole of the course which the Cabinet
had taken. Some anxiety was expressed lest time
should be lost in the discussion of details, because the
French Emperor's desire for peace was so widely spread
over Europe that Russia and even Austria might be
induced to believe that he would accept a peace at
almost any price. The Prince, too, had some very
justifiable uneasiness as to our military position in the
Crimea, since nothing had been done to secure its
evacuation by Russia, and we were in danger of having
to stand another winter there.
                                            found that
  IOn the 28th we had another Cabinet.
this last week had been one of great uneasiness as
regards the French. They objected to all our amend
ments and reserves more or less, and the Emperor
refused absolutely to include the Sea of Azof in the
stipulation, as too derogatory to the honour of Russia,
and, besides, useless when all the inland waters of the
Bug and Dniester must necessarily be left free to
Russia. After some very disagreeable passages of
correspondence, Clarendon had given way on this point,
whilst the French Emperor conceded others, such as
the exclusion of any separate treaty between Turkey
and Russia on the subject of neutralization, unless on
the details as to the exact number of coast-guard

vessels to be kept by each.
   The Cabinet was practically adjourned till the
evening, when there was to be a Cabinet dinner at
Palmerston's. A very serious point came before us.
In our  old ' Four Points,' the  one which  twhairsda--lwnaayms etlhye,
        stumbling-block had      been the
great
that respecting the Black Sea ; this was disposed of by
the new scheme of neutralization. But another of the
' Four Points,' hitherto much postponed, was that some
security should be provided for the Christian subjects of
the Porte. The new Austrian proposals were a little
vague on this subject, but what they did indicate was a
collective European guarantee. There was one obvious

600              PROPOSALS FOR PEACE  [chap, xsvi

danger--that Russia, being conterminous with Turkey
and always ready, might at any time claim to represent
Europe, and might indirectly reassert all her old claims
of internal interference in Turkey. Palmerston was
very jealous and suspicious on this subject, as obviously
he had good reason to be. He tried hard to ' see his
way to some declaration on our part that we objected
to any guarantees ' on this subject at all. But after a
long debate we all agreed that something in the form
of a European sanction must be given to any arrange
ment, both on this point and on the stipulations about
the Danubian provinces, with freedom to reserve our
own opinion on the ' nature, extent, and mode of
exercise ' to be provided for in regard to the action of
IEurope on the points in question.

      was at Windsor on the 3rd December, and had a
long conversation there with Sir Colin Campbell, who
had come home, and with the Duke of Cambridge, on
the late campaign. The Duke had taken up the
common impression that the town of Sebastopol might
easily have been taken if the army had pushed on from
the Alma   at           following up the routed army of
Russians.        once,   you think so, my dear Colin ?'  the
              '                                           he
                 Don't
asked. But Colin, with true Scottish caution, seemed
to think that His Royal Highness went rather fast, and
answered very significantly : ' Your Royal Highness
will recollect that the bodies of Russian infantry that
we saw retreating when we gained the top of the hill
at Alma were retiring, not as a disorderly mob, but as
an organized body.' The Duke admitted this, but said
that later in the day, when they got close to the north
side of Sebastopol, they were crowded in upon by the
columns from the left flank, who had retired before the
French, and that deserters had reported a state of
great consequent confusion. Sir Colin seemed to
regard all these speculations as very doubtful, and his
attitude on the subject confirmed all my original
impressions that Raglan and Burgoyne were right in
pressing on to secure their naval base at Balaclava.

1855] Gladstone's views on eussia 601

IOn the other hand, gathered from Sir Colin that in
our final assault on the 8th September a serious mistake
had been made in not employing fresher troops than
the Light Division, who had long been working so hard
in the trenches. He said the French did not make
their assault with the same division as that which had
worked up the trenches and approaches, but brought
Iup a fresh division from behind.

   On the 5th of December met Gladstone, and had a
long talk with him. He hoped Russia would agree to
the neutralization, but he also thought she would be
right if       irte.fuseItd,waasndthtehaotldwsetosrhyouwldithbehwimro--ngthiaftwiet
          she
insisted  on
was a deprivation to Russia of the means of self-defence,
which no nation ought to agree to, and which ought not
to be demanded of any nation by another. He also
Iobjected on the ground of the easiness of evasion. This

was undeniable, but urged the advantage it would
give us in the beginning of any quarrel, and that all
possible stipulations on the Eastern Question were
open, more or less, to the same objections, from the
insuperable geographical position of advantage held
by Russia in the East of Europe.   Gladstone's idea of
a substitute was a very poor one.
                                   It was the creation
of the Principalities into an independent Power, pre
ferring this to keeping up any connection with Turkey.
The idea of making of the poor little Danubian Princi
palities an independent Power which would be of a
feather strength in resisting either the violence or the
Iintrigues of Russia seemed to me then, as it does
now,   eminently ridiculous.  --thepoaindtveadntoaugte  to   him the
other  side of the question                              to   Europe
of even a nominal connection of those provinces with
Turkey; that it would enable us to say of any in
vasion of the frontier of the Principalities by Russia
that she was invading Turkey, and opening up that
great Eastern Question  inIt  which Europe              a whole
was deeply interested.          pleased me   as         see how
                                            to

futile was the only alternative proposal to our own,

602                  PROPOSALS FOR PEACE                           [chap, xiv i

and that     Gladstone was obliged                to put in a      caution,
' if there  were sufficient materials             out of which     to make

a State with any principle of life in it.'
After some days of further wrangling with the
French Government, our joint reply to Austria was

patched up.

   At a Cabinet on the 13th we considered in a general
way the different plans for the next campaign, if the
war went on. The question was raised whether we
should give up all idea of a conquest of the Crimea and
undertake an attack on Georgia, or whether we should
concert with France in a combined attack on Russia in
the Baltic. Our sense of the great difficulty of this
last course did not diminish by discussion.
On the 16th of December we heard that the Austrian
Emperor had accepted all our modifications of his
buultrigm--atguomod  to Russia, and          had  sent it off to St. Peters
                      news indeed,           and  no inconsiderable diplo
matic triumph in view of the great difficulties in the
way. Two days later (December 18th) we heard of a
--miasfosrttruonneg,hoinldthwehcicahptuwree  of Kars by the Russian army
                                             had done much to place and
defend in the hands of Turkey, but which was obliged to
capitulate on account of famine. This was rather a
blow to us, especially in the event of the seat of war
being changed to the eastern provinces of the Black
Sea. Our gallant and able General Williams was
among the captives.

                     END OF VOL. I

                     BILLING AND SONS, LTD., TRINTKRS, QUILUITOBD


                    GEORGE DOUGLAS

EIGHTH DUKE OF ARGYLL, K.G., K.T.

                                           (1813-1900)

                AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND MEMOIRS


 

       GEORGE DOUGLAS
                EIGHTH

DUKE OF ARGYLL

                           K..G., K.X.

                    (1823-- 1900)

         AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND MEMOIRS

                                              EDITED BY

    THE DOWAGER DUCHESS OF ARGYLL

           WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS
                             IN TWO VOLUMES
                                    II.

                                 LONDON
     JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W.

                                                         1906

· ·· ·· · I· ··

-XXXHI. LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY -VOL. IICONTENTS TO

 CHAPTER  VISIT TO HA WARDEN --WORK AT THE POST OFFICE     PAOK

XXVH.                                                            1

          -- QUESTION OF LIFE PEERAGES --LORD LYND-         26
          HURST's SPEECH --TREATY OF PARIS
                                                    -        45

XXVUI. CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE ON THE              80
                                                             93
          CRIMEAN WAR            ----                      111
                                                           137
XXIX.     SYMPATHY WITH THE ANTI-SLAVERY MOVEMENT          169
             -- VISIT OF MRS. STOWE TO ENGLAND AND         200
             TO INVERARAY -- DIFFICULTY WITH CHINA --      229
                                                           242
          GENERAL ELECTION - - -                           253
                                                           269
XXX. INDIAN MUTINY -- SIR COLIN CAMPBELL -- LORD
          DALHOUSIE --COMMERCIAL CRISIS                    293
                                                 -         322
                                                           346
XXXI. LORD PALMERSTON'S ADMINISTRATION -                -

XXXn. THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION                -  -      -

XXXIV.    THE AMERICAN CIVIL  WAR             -
 XXXV.                          -
XXXVI.    FOREIGN POLITICS

          REFORM       -

 XXXVn. DISESTABLISHMENT OF THE IRISH CHURCH            -
XXXVm. THE IRISH LAND BILL - - -                        -

XXXIX. INDIA

XL. THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR -- ARMY REFORM --

          EDUCATION --CHURCH AND STATE           -      -

XLI. THE EASTERN QUESTION --ORNITHOLOGY                 -

XLH. THE IRISH LAND BILL -

                              T

                            (*~ -~ '·« I -J-

yi : :.·.**" contents to vol. ii                       PAGE

       CHAPTER                                        384
                                                      402
    XLin. THE FRANCHISE BILL --THE SOUDAN --LIBERAL
                                                      450
  ---.-.-.ISM AND RADICALISM                          481

     XLIV. HOME RULE                                  545
      XLV. SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT -- THE ARMENIAN  584

  -----QUESTION

     XLVI. SCIENCE- - - - - -

   XLVH. LITERARY WORK --JUBILEE --QUEEN VICTORIA --

  -----NATURAL HISTORY -- POETRY -- CHARACTER

                     ISTICS

  XLVIII. APPRECIATIONS

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

George Douglas, Eighth Dukk of Argyll -                     - Frontiyriece

          From a portrait by William Wontner. Photogravure

George Douglas, Eighth Duke of Argyll -                                               FAQI

                                                            - To face 48

          From a portrait by James Swinton.  Photogravure.

Inveraray Castle in Winter
---·,,The Mantuan Medal                                     ,,  342
                                                                384

Ails a Craig from Magharioch                     -          ,, 562

          From a picture by the Duke of Argyll.

vii


             AUTOBIOGRAPHY

/ THE DUKE OF ARGYLL

               CHAPTER XXVII

               1855-56

VISIT TO HAWARDEN --WORK AT                         --TLHOERDPOLSYTNDOHFUFRICSET--'S
      SQPUEEESCTHIO--N TROEFALTIYFEOPFEEPRARAGISES

It was in the midst of this acute crisis in the Eastern
Question that we were cordially invited by the Glad
stones to visit them at Hawarden. We were very glad
to do so, as the most accentuated political differences
had never interfered with our constant social inter
course, or with the immense pleasure we had in Glad
stone's varied and abounding conversation. We were
delighted with Hawarden and the fine old castle on a
steep elevation, overlooking an extensive and well-
timbered park. The modern house is not beautiful,
but comfortable and commodious, commanding an
extensive view over a well-wooded landscape. Glad
stone began immediately to talk to me on the question

of the moment, and assured me that he had not at all
changed his opinion on the need of curtailing the pre
dominance of Russia in Europe ; but he continued to
deny that the  stotipautltaatiinonthaisboeuntd.the I EtuoxldinehimwaIs
way of trying                                                              a right
                                                                           saw no
other. His mind was fixed on a mere negative, and in
vol. h.
                                                                        1

2                     :: : tylsiT to hawarden                          [chap. xxvii

hi^V-j^^J-.eg^ejri^e^V^/             was carried              away    tcooumnatrkyin--g
violent speeches against             the policy of           his own
greatly, no doubt, to the encouragement of our enemy.
General declarations of a desire to keep to our old
' Third Point,' and to diminish the overbearing pre
Iponderance of Russia in the East of Europe, were useful

and guiding declarations when he and had been
colleagues together in urging the Crimean expedition.
But they were utterly useless now, when we were com
pelled to specify what we meant.
   Not even some large cession of territory would have
been any equivalent for the abolition of the fleets, and
no one knew better than Gladstone that any cession of
territory of the least value for our purpose would have
renewed and prolonged the war to an indefinite extent.
But it  was useless to argue with him on that subject.
        in his nature when once he had taken up a side
It was
to see no other, and this was the second great occasion
Ion which, with all my admiration of his powers and all

my affection for him as a man, saw how unsafe was his
jBuudtgmI neenvte, r  and   how                  were his     convictions.
                       had  any   passionate    the freest   conversation
                                 difficulty in
wjfeoicrtthwunGhdliacedhrstthhoeenesn.uenv--eArlemxsceoeespmtte,ediqnudtaoelelydc,aerteahg--eernthaortonuuraeglvhescrayielnl scutehsbe,
wide ranges of history, literature, and art, he was always
as^full of animation                 oHf akwnoawrdleedngeI.    In the
ment of the woods                as                                    manage
                                                             thought   him too
                                 of
I Idestructive, but this was partly due to his eagerness in
a personal handling of the axe.                 enjoyed, as always
do, the fine timbering of an old English park, and
regretted to see the fall of even stag-headed monarchs
Iof the forest.
                                                             had long and
   During this visit to Hawarden
very interesting talks with Gladstone on the condition of the English Church. This may seem strange,
considering our different standpoints, but neither
Iof us was wedded to any provincial or personal
theology.             could see from his manner and his silence

1855-56]                        POSTMASTER-GENERAL        3

tIhbaet liheevedbiselciakuesde  the  Established   Church of Scotland --
                                its  position had
                                                   been one of the great
stumbling-blocks in the way of his argument in his
famous book on Church Principle. He never seemed
to me to get over that early association of ideas. As
his life went on, his character and position as a poli
tician and a statesman predominated over his earlier

character as a Churchman and a theologian, and his
alliance with the Dissenting element on both sides of
the Tweed made him feel a warm sympathy with the
Free Church Presbyterians in Scotland. But he never

I got over his distaste for the Establishment, and was
amused in later years by the involuntary coolness and
restraint of his manner in speaking to, or of, any of its
ministers. Beyond this little weakness, arising from
some of the most indelible associations of his early
Iyears, think his mind was singularly open and free
Ifrom prejudice in the discussion of religion.
                                                          knew
well the tender places with him, and they were too few
and too far removed from any question of the time to
Iinterfere with the freedom of our intercourse.
                                                          had
an intense interest in the discussion of such subjects
with him, and was always able, if not largely to agree
with him, yet at least to understand his points of view
Iand to harvest some thoughts of interest and of value.

    On our return to London, found myself fairly in

the saddle of a great administrative department. It is
usual in such offices that the incoming Minister should
meet his predecessor, and learn from him in personal
conversation as much as possible of the work in hand,
and especially of the character and qualifications of the

Ivarious members of the official staff. had accordingly
Icalled on Canning, with whom was on terms of cordial
friendship, and we had a long conversation, some inci
          of which
          as regards
I IdFeirnstts,
                                afforded me considerable amusement.
                                the office generally, he asked me with
a kindly smile whether thought that could easily
restrain myself from controversial arguments, since
in that office they would often be inconvenient. This
                                                    1--2

4           WORK AT THE POST OFFICE                                   |chap. xxvii

Iamused me much, as it was the first intimation I had had

that, among friends, had the reputation of being much
Idisposed to controversy. Perhaps this was not wonder

ful, considering that was first publicly known as the
writer of a strongly controversial pamphlet, and later as
an eager debater in the House of Lords. Canning was not
in the Cabinet, althoughhe was a member of the Adminis
tration, so that he had not seen me in the capacity of a
ItMhiantistewr a; sbuntotpearnha'passsheenmtaatoyr  have been told    by others
                                                     ' there, and it   was true
Ithat where great questions were at stake, and where
Ihad reached decided opinions, often after much doubt,

and always after much consideration, did urge them
with the eagerness of a strong conviction. But this is
nothing   more than the   duty of every member of
Cabinet.    On the other                                              aI
                          hand, if Canning thought
would naturally be contentious, either inside the
Office with my permanent advisers there, or outside
the Office, in its correspondence with the public, he was
very much mistaken.

  I IStrange as it may sound, considering the many public

controversies in which have been engaged, have
always disliked extremely, and avoided, controversy in

conversation among official colleagues or friends and
intimates. When Canning, therefore, seemed to fear

Ithat should soon be in some wrangle with my staff
Ior with complainants outside, laughed a good deal,
Iand assured him that on that point felt no apprehen
sions whatever. Canning then gave me a rapid and
Icharacteristic account of all the leading officers on

whose reports and judgments should have greatly to
            to the name of one of these, he hesitated
            and said : ' Do you know what a clever
Irely.

for a
    Coming
   moment,
ass means ? Well, that is what A.B. is.' afterwards
found all his personal sketches to be very accurate and
of much use to me.

   Nothing could be more friendly and harmonious
than all my relations with the staff of the Post
Office, and especially with the Permanent Secretary

1855-56]                           SIR ROWLAND HILL                                    5

--an office then filled by that very eminent man,
Sir Rowland Hill, to whom, more than to anyone else,
Ithe country owed the idea and the adoption of the
penny post.                        gave to any advice from him that
weight to which it was so eminently entitled. He was
of short stature, with a very round head, then nearly
bald, rather small eyes, but with an expression of great
quickness, a manner very grave and deliberate, with
speech and voice well suited to the utterance of opinions
never arrived at hastily, but always                                   after the most
careful and prolonged examination.
                                                                       It was an im
mense comfort to have to deal with such a man, more
especially as, in the              arithmetical element in               aI lcl oouuldr
dealings with railway              and steamboat companies,
only stare and wonder at Rowland Hill's extraordinary
cpaolwceurlsatioonfs.staIttistwicaasl             and of                arithmetical
                                       analysis   powers               that he had
                                       by these
arrived at his great proposal, as one resting on a sound
gfirnaasnpceida--l bnaasmise. ly,  The central    idea           was   one not easily
                                     this : that   the           cost  of carrying a
letter from London to Birmingham is not appreciably
less than the cost of carrying it to Thurso. But it
required great faculties of calculation to prove that
one and the same charge would pay for the transit of
letters to all parts of the             UItnituesdedKitnogdtuormn,        however
near or however distant.                                                 my head
giddy sometimes when Rowland Hill brought to me his
calculations of the cost of railway carriage for the mails,

Iinvolving fractions of a farthing per mile. But felt
I Iabsolutely safe in his hands on every question of this
kind.      need not                say  thpaertsonatlrearetegdardh. imI  with the
utmost    distinction              and                                    thought
him a singularly straightforward and honourable man,
besides being most able and ingenious. There was only
Ione solitary occasion during my tenure of the Post
Office on which                    Hwialls--coonme pwelhleicdh,  to differ decidedly
from Sir Rowland                                                 well illustrates the

ineradicable distinction which exists between the
purely departmental mind, however able, and the mind

6              WORK AT THE POST OFFICE  [chap. xxvii

of the political officials who are generally the respon
sible heads.
   Rowland Hill came to me one day, and advised me
very strongly to abolish the system of surcharging
unpaid letters and the system of allowing unpaid letters
to be forwarded at all. He laid before me excellent de
partmental reasons. The number of clerks required and
the time spent in watching for these letters cost a great
deal more than the surcharges recovered for them,
and besides the cost, there was the nuisance and the
trouble. There had now ceased to be any excuse for
posting an unpaid letter. Everyone could have a few

stamps in his pocket, and if anyone was so careless in
giving trouble and expense to a public department as
to omit to affix one, he ought to suffer the punishment
Iof not having his letter forwarded at all. Fortunately

for me, it so happened that had never been in the habit
Iof stamping my letters myself, nor of carrying stamps
in my pocket.  felt in a moment that Rowland Hill's

proposal might be a serious inconvenience to many,
               letters of                        to
                involve                          of
I Isaennddemr i--ghtmsitgohpt
                           immense  consequence      the
                           perhaps  even issues      life
               set all this before Rowland Hill as best
and death.

could, but he was not convinced. He insisted on his
proposal as one of great relief to the Office and of no
Iserious injury to the public.  was so accustomed to
Idefer to him that determined to think over it for a
I Iweek, and to make some private inquiries as to the
impressions of outsiders.  found, as had expected,
that most people disliked extremely the idea of com
pulsory prepayment under the penalty of the letter
Ibeing lost. Accordingly, next week told Sir Rowland
I I Ithat
   could not admit his proposal, as              felt
Icould not defend it in Parliament, where was sure it
would be angrily opposed. Sir Rowland submitted
with a good grace, although without any change of his
own opinion. But my triumph soon came. My suc
cessor in office was Lord Colchester, not a very strong
man. Sir Rowland approached him with the same

1855-56]            AN IRISH DEPUTATION               7

proposal, and Lord Colchester agreed. The moment
it was heard of by the public there was an outcry, and,
before a threatened motion in the House of Commons,
the Government had to give way, and the obnoxious

measure was withdrawn. But although Rowland Hill
failed on this occasion to understand the public, as
compared with the departmental, point of view, he
was generally wise and sagacious in his dealings with
men.
An amusing instance of this came before me in one
important case. We had been taking great pains at
the Office to organize an improved postal system
between England and Ireland. There were many
difficulties to be overcome, connected with the speed
of trains to Holyhead and of steamers across the

Channel. Rowland Hill had a fine field of action for his
special gifts, and at last we had formed a scheme which
seemed to us to present the best attainable results.

But as soon as it became known in Ireland, there were
a number of discontented parties connected with dis
tricts having different interests, who got up an agitation
in the press and in Parliament, and at last clubbed
tIotgetlohoekredto  come to me   with an              deputation.
                    like a very  difficult  imposing  for me to
                                             subject
Ideal with adequately in a mere personal conversation.

Of course, had to receive the deputation, and applied
to Rowland Hill for a brief. He advised me to say
very little, telling me that he knew the wide divergence
of interests between the different parties, who were
combined only in opposition to our plan, and would
be still more divided by any substitute. He advised
me, therefore, to listen to all they said, without entering
on objections or reply, and then just to put one or two
                                 what they would themselves
questions,  asking them  I       received the deputation, con
propose.    Accordingly
taining Irish members from both Houses of Parlia
ment, to all appearance a most united and formidable
Ibody. They backed each other up in all the objections.

When they had concluded, said a few civil words of

8  WORK AT THE POST OFFICE  [chap. mvii

thanks for their assistance, and then asked for their

own plan and proposals. In a moment there was a

tremendous hubbub. No two of them seemed to be
agreed, and in a few minutes there was a regular Irish
row round my peaceful long table of green baize.
Nothing could have been more successful than the

tactics of Rowland Hill ; his scheme was carried into

effect, and the splendid boats that now carry the mails
to Ireland from Holyhead were organized and stationed

Iwhile was at the Post Office.
  I IWhen returned to London from the country,

found my colleagues in anxious speculation about the
probable reply of Russia to the Austrian ultimatum.

I Iwas more sanguine than usually am, because of the
Istrong impression had that Austria would not commit

herself to any terms which she had not good reason to

know would be accepted. Therefore, although it was
no surprise, it was an immense pleasure to me to hear
on the 16th January, 1856, that Russia accepted the
ultimatum, with the neutralization of the Black Sea.

We had a Cabinet, at which Nesselrode's despatch was
read, which we thought an able and very moderate
document ; and we had also a letter from the French
Emperor, saying that he did not think he could or
ought to continue the war upon further detailed de
mands, such as the Austrian demand for a slice of
Bessarabia. But the important impression made upon
the Cabinet was this : that Russia had now for the first
time made such large advances that it would not be
possible or right to require further negotiations
directly with herself. This was an immense step
towards peace, and from this date we were fairly
launched on the stream of those transactions which
ended in the Peace of Paris. Yet during those trans
actions, and especially at this early time, contingencies
came into view which impressed upon me more and
more the great danger of any prolongation of the war.
The French were determined to have a separate
command, and of course a larger command than ours,

1856]     RUSSIA ACCEPTS THE ULTIMATUM                   9

and to assign to their own General and troops all the
work in which any glory could be won. Of course,
we should have resisted this, but their numerical superi
ority made any resistance on our part difficult and
precarious, and endangered the continuance of the
alliance. Every day, therefore, and every discussion
about details, increased my anxious desire to see the
whole affair of the Crimean War wound up for ever.
The burden of it, financially, was very heavy, but our
resources in money were greater than our resources in

men. In the Cabinet at this time it was agreed that,
in order to hold our own with the French in the conduct
of the war, our Generals must be placed in command
of not less than 40,000 English troops ; and very recent
experience told us of the extreme difficulty we had in

keeping up in the Crimea a very much smaller force. In
every discussion, therefore, at this time, in the Cabinet,

I was in favour always of the alternative which looked
Ibest for the attainment of a reasonable peace, and
regarded the neutralization of the Black Sea as in itself
Iincluding very much of all that we had aimed at in
the war.     was glad to see that these considerations

were forcing themselves even on Palmerston himself,
and still more on his colleagues generally, whilst the
determination shown by the French Emperor to make

peace if possible, made me feel comparatively safe,
through all the complicated details of the negotiations
now renewed.
  IOn hearing of the Russian acceptance of the ulti

matum, had called at once on Aberdeen to tell him
the great news. He said he was not surprised, de
claring that in his opinion we had always set too small

a value on the aid of Austria. But he asked if the
restoration  of IKtaorlsd  to Turkey could be included   in the
acceptance.                him this was impossible in a  literal
sense, because Kars had not fallen to the Russian arms
when the ultimatum was drawn up, so that the restora

tion of it could not be included in that document.
On the 31st January, 1856, Parliament was opened,

10             QUESTION OF LIFE PEERAGES     [chap. xxvii

and the speeches of my colleagues were so rational and
so peaceful in tone that they satisfied even my old
friends Aberdeen and Grey. No severer test could have

been applied to them.
    Within a few weeks of the opening of the session we
found ourselves suddenly plunged into a question of
the greatest interest and of the greatest difficulty, with
which we were very imperfectly prepared to deal                  by
any adequate previous inquiry or consideration.
                                                                 If
there is any value in biographies, it is that in them we
can narrate facts of public interest from, as it were,
Ian inside point of view, whereas an outside view is
generally all that can be got from history.               will here
tell the story of our controversy on the subject of life
Ipeerages as it appeared to me at the time, with all the
peIrstohnaald  influences which saw     in operation.     time,  to
               been thought desirable,   for some little
add to the judicial strength of the House of Lords by
the creation of one or two new Law Lords. But, as
ordinary hereditary peerages created for this temporary
purpose would continue after that purpose had ceased
to be served, and a useless addition was thus often
made to the number of the House, Palmerston took it
into his head that it would be convenient to give
peerages for life to such Law Lords as might be needed
Ifor judicial purposes alone. He of course consulted

his own Lord Chancellor, but, so far as can recollect,
or can find in contemporary notes, he did not consult
the Cabinet. Our Chancellor, Cranworth, was person
ally a most excellent and honest man. He had been
a successful lawyer and an efficient judge. His charge
to the jury in the case of the famous Norfolk murder by
Rush was the admiration of all England at the time, for
the clearness and firmness with which he unravelled a
very tangled skein of evidence, and braced the jury to
do their duty. Nevertheless, Cranworth as Chancellor
Iwas not a very strong man. He was a great friend of

mine, and on one occasion ventured to advise him to
show his teeth a little more to the aggressive lawyers

1856]              LIFE PEERAGES                              11

round him in the House, who treated him sometimes
with but scant respect. But his gentle nature was not
up to that sort of work, and once, when he did show his
teeth, he did it so ill that he rather lost ground than
gained it. Cranworth was not the man to grasp the
very large questions which would be involved by the
practically new expedient of introducing life peerages
into the House of Lords. He found in all authoritative
text-books, and in the written words of his contem
poraries, the full admission that the Crown's right to
create peers was not limited to peerages with some
remainder. He therefore told Palmerston that his
proposal was perfectly legal, and without more ado or
consultation with anybody, Palmerston advised the
Queen to confer a life peerage on Baron Parke, under
the title of Lord Wensleydale. By an unfortunate,
or, as some will think, a fortunate, accident, Baron
Parke was laid up with an attack of gout, and was
unable  mottatoihkneedtrnawakihesciesehrsithseaeaisnte,ctayetthr--teoarntiehntaliyhstentwhofoeitruhshltidnigdghhaeamysvtoeorfpedrtowohnbeoeau.bsldeilsiIthsfyaiov--hnee,
which                            aItfewwasspoeneechtehsinogf

had so
in my
       heard of the matter than
been   some of the Law Lords.                                 protest
from                                                          to keep
out a new peer by preventing him from taking his seat
on some plea of illegality, but it would have been a
very different thing to vote for his expulsion after his
seat had been taken, with all the usual formalities of
Parliamentary usage, at a sitting of the House. The
accident, therefore, of Baron Parke's fit of gout at an
awkward moment was the determining cause of one of
the most serious                            oof nLoitrsdso--wna
constitution ever  and important decisions
                   come to by the House
decision full of the most curious historical interest, and,
not less, of the most important political consequences.
The issue by the Queen of a Patent of Nobility without
any remainder in it was a transaction which was hardly
at all noticed by the public, and created not the smallest
excitement among politicians. Nobody disputed for

12         QUESTION OF LIFE PEERAGES                    [chap. xxvii

a moment the eminent fitness of the man for the func
tions involved in a judicial peerage. Baron Parke, by
universal consent, was esteemed one of the very ablest
and soundest lawyers on the Bench. And then there
was another circumstance which might well distract
attention  from the novelty   of Palmerston's proceeding
--namely,   the circumstance   that Baron Parke was old

and had no son.
   But this was the very fact which arrested the atten
tion of the legal profession, and especially of the Law
Lords. Why did Palmerston go out of his way, and
out of the usual routine, to bestow a new form of

peerage on a man on whom a nominally hereditary
peerage could be conferred without any inconveni

ence ?

   But if the accident of one old man's illness was
a determining factor in raising this question, it
is curious that another old man's almost preter
natural activity and strength were still more decisive
elements   in the   result. Among the Law Lords there
           -- now   haalfgofoodrgodtetaeln--rewthiroed    from public
was one     almost                                      had been the
life, and

greatest of them all. Coming to this country from
America some time between 1774 and 1776, a poor
and unknown boy, he had studied for the English Bar,
and by sheer force of intellect had pushed his way
upwards to the seat on which the Lord Chancellor of
England sits and presides over the House of Peers.
Nor was his precedence there a precedence of official

rank alone. In political debate he wielded an over

whelming power. During the declining Ministries of
the Whig party his scathing annual reviews of their
helplessness and inefficiency were among the feats of
oratory which men crowded to hear, and telling sen
tences from which were repeated all over the kingdom.
   The fall of Lord Melbourne's Government in 1841
had sated old Lyndhurst's rooted antipathy to the
Whigs, whilst the fall of Lord Derby's Government in
1852 had convinced him that some new combination of

                    LORD LYNDHTRST                                   13

parties had become a necessity. During Lord Aber
deen's Government, therefore, he was one of the

Imajority in the House of Lords which steadily sup

ported us. But have no recollection that he ever
spoke. He was now, in 1856, between eighty and
ninety years of age, very blind and very infirm, and
nobody thought of him as any longer a living force in
politics. Those who did know him personally, how
Iever, were quite aware that, in mind, he was as acute and
as strong as ever.  had been by accident thrown into
ipnermsoynainl terrevlaietwionwsitwhithhimhiImhaodn        Ryland    case, and
                                                      the  and felt  the march
                                                     seen

of a powerful spirit. No compliment ever paid to me
had gratified me more than Lyndhurst's recommenda
tion that a case of personal grievance which had been
placed in his hands should be transferred to mine.
There was much about his personal appearance which
was very peculiar. He wore a snuff-brown frock-coat
buttoned up to the chest. A yellow-brown wig fitted
close to his head, not concealing a very square and
massive brow. His eyebrows were straight and bushy,
and from behind them glanced and glittered cold but
merry grey eyes which seemed to have been couched
for cataract, and could only show their fire through the
appropriate glasses. His cheeks were wonderfully
smooth, with a complexion of that dry red with some
tinges of yellow which is not  aange.uncIotmwmaosn                    colouring
in healthy men of a great                                            in perfect
harmony with the brown wig and the brown coat.
The jaws were powerful and the mouth firm. Alto
gether it was an impressive countenance, and it would
have been handsome too, had it not been for an un
fortunate approximation to the conventional type of
Mephistopheles. He rose with great difficulty from any
seat, and leaned heavily on a stick when standing.
Such was the glorious old weapon, now hung on the
walls of Parliament, and bearing the dints of many
fights, which the Law Peers wished to take down from
its place of rest, that it might be wielded once more in

14               LORD LYNDHURST' S SPEECH                [chap. xxvti

battle for themselves ; for this was avowedly their
feeling on the nature of the issue that was at stake.
They regarded Lord Wensleydale's life peerage as a
personal and a professional affront. They believed that
no lawyer would ever again receive an hereditary
peerage. But, seeing that this view alone would not
secure any large support, they fell back on the danger
involved to the independence of the House of Lords,
and there was not a man among them who could present
this high argument as Lyndhurst could present it.
They therefore crowded to his house, and with one
consent implored him to undertake the cause. With
wonderful pluck, he buckled on his armour, although he

himself, as a childless man, could have no personal
feeling in the matter. Professional feeling, indeed, he
did possess, and he did not hesitate to give it strong
expression. But the constitutional argument which
he scented in the air was one most attractive to that
sweep of intellect and to that breadth of mind which
made Lyndhurst much more a statesman than a lawyer.
The distinction between an act which may be legal, and
Ian act which is also constitutional, was a distinction

familiar to my own mind, because had had occasion to
dwell upon it in my first published argument on the
Church question in Scotland. But it is a distinction
unfamiliar to English lawyers generally, and, indeed,
they are often indignant with any pretension to con
demn a legal act on grounds unknown to the authorities
of  Iftorwmaasl  jurisprudence.
                 in this spirit that  our  Lord  Chancellor
                                                             (Cran-
worth), when Palmerston's proposal about life peerages
Iwas first mentioned in the Cabinet, and when someone

said that its legality was questioned, replied : ' don't
think it  --witllhabte,  questioned by     any lawyer.'   And this
was true                 in so far as the  question had  ever been

raised, the authorities had recognised the power of the
Crown to create peerages without any remainder. The
Lord Chief Justice, Campbell, had so expressed himself
in one of his books. But he was now among the keenest

1856]  LIFE PEERAGES                                              15

of our opponents. There was in truth a catena of
authorities to the same effect, from the time of Lord

Coke. It was easy work to quote them, and to be
satisfied with dicta so uncontradicted and so con
tinuous. The result was that neither our worthy
Chancellor nor any other of my colleagues had the least
conception of the powerful fire of arguments which
would be brought to bear on the question when
Lyndhurst opened his batteries upon us.
Lyndhurst's plan of campaign was ingenious and
effective. He could not bring the House of Lords in
its ordinary legislative capacity to bear upon the
question, because no vote by resolution or address
would stop the action of the Crown. Neither could he
enlist the House in its judicial capacity, because no
                                                        at all.   He resorted to
tshtreicptllyealeogfapl rqivuileesgteion--  was raised  doctrine  of wide range,
                                            a body of
necessarily vague, and always rich in possible appeals
to the fears and the prejudices of each House of Parlia
ment. He gave notice that he would move that the
House should resolve itself into a Committee of Privi
leges, to consider the patent issued to Baron Parke,
and then in that Committee he would have a second
opportunity of piling up arguments of assault, in moving
that the patent was unconstitutional. This plan he
carried into effect with astonishing ability and power.
In his first speech, demanding that the question should
be dealt with, not in any ordinary sitting of the House,
but in a Committee of Privileges, he did not waste any
time in arguing as to mere legality. He reminded us
that it would be perfectly legal for the Crown to give
patents of nobility to every man in a company of
soldiers, and to send them to the House of Peers. But
nobody would contend that such an exercise of the
prerogative would be constitutional. He warned us

that our independence was at stake ; for if an un
scrupulous Minister could make as many peers for life
as he chose, the manoeuvre would be resorted to
whenever it was convenient. He insisted that our

16              LORD LYNDHTJRST'S SPEECH  [chap. xxvii

unwritten Constitution was one of usage, and that no act
or exercise of prerogative which had fallen into com
plete desuetude for centuries could be revived without
the sanction of Parliament. He then showed that in
every alleged case of a life peerage there were some one
or more broadly discriminating facts which separated
it entirely from the case of Baron Parke. Most of these

alleged cases went back to the reign of Henry II.,
400 years ago.
    This part of Lyndhurst's speech was very powerful.
He did not deny the right of the Crown to confer titles ;
but titles for life only, and yet carrying a seat in the
House of   mhPaeedemrsob,reahebnaledssenpteetvleeecdrh.--belIuetncidwgaivisneniatsssinaprclreeannodguiedrmCeaonnntd,,
stitution

indeed, a

in its historical narrative, and in the inferences drawn.

It was delivered with striking dignity of manner and
of tone, and, though expressing severe censure on the
Government for unconstitutional conduct, it never
descended into declamatory violence. There was but

one exception, as it seemed to me, to its skill and force
of statement, and that was a passage which revealed the
strong professional animus of the legal members of the

IHouse. should not truly represent my own impressions
Iof that time if did not confess that this animus was
very strongly impressed upon me by many circumstances

Iof the moment. One day had heard Lord Campbell
Isay, when was seated close beside him at the table :

' My Lords, what has the law done that it should be
subjected to this indignity ?' There are no feelings
in the world so strong as a professional susceptibility,
and when it affects, almost unanimously, such a compact
and powerful brotherhood as the law members of the
House of Lords, it has a very good chance of governing
their opinions and their votes. Now, although Lynd
hurst's great speech turned mainly on the danger to
our House as a whole and in its legislative capacity, he
yet was unable to conceal the purely professional
element of jealousy, lest law peerages should be rele

1856]         A MEMORABLE SPEECH                               17

gated to a lower or secondary class of honour, shown by
the lack of privileges usually attached to the dignity of
a peer. In the latter part of his speech this feeling
ItfioounndwheixcphreIsshioand  in a repetition of the very  exclama
                               heard from Lord Campbell     : ' What,

would ask your lordships, has the profession of the
I Ilaw done to merit this indignity ?' Strongly impressed

as was at the time, and convinced as still am, that
this susceptibility was the inciting cause which led
         inIsduorrneocttiownishofit        Law Lords     against life
                                                       that regard
                                          be supposed
to the                               the
                                      to
Ipeerages,
this element of motive as a condemnation of the result.

It is rather the rule than the exception in politics that
a mixture of inferior motives is among the impelling
forces which vindicate valuable and important prin
ciples in the government of men. We must judge,
therefore, of Lyndhurst's great argument by its
I Istrongest, and not by its weakest, part ; and from this

point of view felt even then, and feel still more
strongly now, the great weight to be attached to his
contention that long-abandoned and obsolete powers,
in a Constitution such as ours, ought not to be called
out from the sleep of centuries into active life and play
without great deliberation and, in general, Parliamen
tary assent.
On referring the question to a Committee of Privi
leges, Lyndhurst beat us by a majority of thirty-four
in the first division (February 7th, 1856). On
February 22nd, in the second division on his condem

natory resolution, he beat us again by thirty-five. It
was in   this second debate that          Lyndhurst delivered
another  speech, more wonderful
                                          than the first. It is
impossible to exaggerate the impression produced by
a man in his eighty-sixth year pouring out for two hours
a vigorous, consecutive argument, full of history and
doifgcnoitnystiatuntdionpaolwreera. sonCinamg,pibnellal,ngiunagheisof'eLxitvreasordoifnathrye
Chancellors,' says that this was the finest speech ever
delivered in the House of Lords. Such comparative
vol. n.
                                                            2

18  LORD LYNDHURST'S SPEECH                                                                  [chap. xxvii

superlatives depend a good deal on the predispositions

of those who use them. In the condition of mind in
which Lord Campbell then was, as regards a threatened
dishonour to his profession, it is easy to understand his
estimate of a speech which must have seemed to him
a great deliverance. But after discounting all that
may justly be allowed for this feeling, it remains true
tshpalet nLdyidndohrautrosrti'csalsepfefeocrht--onalltthhise  occasion was indeed a
                                                              more as the subject did
not admit of any play of imagination or of fancy. He
did, indeed, introduce a quotation of ten fine lines from
Dryden, describing the character of Shaftesbury, but,
with this exception,  tahnedchwaeraigchtetr--othf ethjeudspiceieacl hswuamsmtihnagt
of immense solidity
Iup of a great case by a great judge. In this capacity it
iHsouunsdeouobf tPeadrllyiatmheengtr.eateItst   speech        ever heard in                  either
                                               is one of      the very few                   which
has imprinted indelibly on my memory all the circum
stances of the scene, the venerable figure of the veteran,
and not a few of the pregnant sentences of his stately

argument.
   There was one in particular which struck me much.
He alluded to the charge that his objections were
founded on mere jealousy. Full as my mind was of
Ithe idea that professional jealousy was at the bottom

of his opposition, listened eagerly to what he would
say on this subject. But with a real genius for debate,
he turned it to a splendid use in support of his own
argument. Instead of repudiating jealousy, he boasted
of it, and claimed it as his own. He claimed it, not,
iupnsadesedseiodan,sssi--nynbtohunatytminloouwtshearwt sithehnigsheeensivnty--wsehnthisceeh   the word is often
                                                                                             meanest of human
                                                                                             in which jealousy
is ascribed in the Old Testament even to the Divine
Being, as one of the highest attributes of His nature.
Jealousy of the insidious approach of any dangers to
ttehmepceitradwehlsichofhefreaevdoowmed.and'   of the Constitution was a
                                               Jealousy, my Lords,' said
the old orator slowly, solemnly, and with just a slight

1856]  LIFE PEERAGES                            19

elevation of voice to make the emphasis -- ' jealousy,
my Lords, is the spirit of our Constitution.' From the
moment these words were uttered a new current was
set up in the thoughts of all of us. They were turned
from the idea of any mere pride or pique in one pro
fession, to the idea of men, standing as watchmen on the
towers of a Constitution, depending for its virtue and
stability on the balance of nicely-adjusted powers.
This identification of the wounded pride of a dominant
profession with the highest duty of a citizen in a con
stitutional Government  wItas  a skilful and  most effective
expedient of debate.           shook some,
                                               it confirmed
others. The result when we divided was a foregone

Iconclusion.

      should have been glad to escape speaking, but the
Government forces were too few to admit of any of us

Ideclining battle, and spoke third after Lyndhurst.
I took the safe line of explaining the action of the
IGovernment by asserting what knew to be true, and
Iby denying what knew to be mistaken. What we
did know to be true was, that the appellate jurisdiction
of the House had fallen into an unsatisfactory condi

tion, and we were of opinion that it ought to be
strengthened by the revival of an ancient precedent,
which would enable future Governments, from time to

Itime, to keep it more easily in a state of efficiency.
denied emphatically that we had any idea of raising a
question of constitutional law. Lyndhurst had de
clined to allow the House to consult the judges. We
found that every juridical writer since the time of
Lord Coke concurred in the doctrine that it was com
Ipetent for the Crown to create life peerages.
                                                denied
Ithat, in future, hereditary peerages would never be
conferred on great lawyers.    dwelt on the strong pro
Ifessional feeling that had developed on this point, and

warned the House against it. denied that Lyndhurst
was right in assuming that any date, such as the
Revolution, could be fixed as one beyond which ancient
precedents were useless in our Constitution, ^without

                                                                                 2--2

20  TREATY OF PARIS                      [chap. xxvn

Ifresh. legislative authority.        contended that anything
Inot expressly condemned at the Revolution was pre

sumably alive, and declared my belief that in the most
ancient precedents of our history might be found, from
time to time, materials for renovation.
    The debate, on the whole, was a good one, several
peers speaking well. But there was a general feeling,
even amongst ourselves, that Palmerston's action had
bsseterqeeunnegnhtcheasst--aynndaontdindoilnel-pceothnnedseidnjeucredeidc,ioafl,ththbaetut iHtsoonupsrtoehb--eabhplaeodlitcinocnoatl
been duly weighed, and, above all, that no provision
had been made against abuses. The contest ended
in a compromise. The judicial strength of the House
wjuadsiciianlcrepeaesreadgesb--y       limited and definite number of
                                   a  plan which has worked well ever
                                  a

since.

  It must not be supposed that the place occupied in
this memoir by the struggle on the subject of life
peerages was the place it occupied at    the time in the
public mind or in the minds of public
                                         men. It was a
battle entirely fought within the quiet precincts of the
House of Lords, and excited very little attention
outside of it. We who had been engaged in it, and had
been defeated, were glad              to return from discussions  which
turned on events in the                                           living
                                      reign of Henry II. to the
questions of our own day, first and foremost among
which were the terms of our contemplated peace with
Russia. The Conference was sitting in Paris from day
to day, and a good many of the circumstances attending
it were only too like the older Conference at Vienna,
which had been so embarrassing in its course and so
abortive in its result. There were, however, some all-
important differences. We were represented by
Clarendon, instead of by Lord John Russell, and Claren
don knew the feelings both of the Cabinet and of the
country, besides being in immediate communication

with Palmerston from hour to hour. In the second
place, the allies had at last conquered the position at

1856]        PEACE NEGOTIATIONS  21

Sebastopol, and Russia was suffering severely from the
exhaustion of a contest which had been most gallantly
fought, but only with an immense exertion, which could

not longer be maintained. In the third place, we had
entered into the Congress only after Russia had
accepted an  'uFltoimuratuPmoin, tws.h' ichInfultlhyeemfobuordtihedploaucre,lonogu-r
established

French ally was tolerably satisfied with those military
successes of his army without which his Generals had
warned him it would not be safe to consent to peace,
Iand he was now bent on terminating the war. These

were conditions which was glad to think were almost
securities for peace; and so they proved to be, but,
strange to say, not without some moments of embar

rassment.
There were several adjuncts to our main demands,
on some of which all of us set considerable store, while,
regarding others, Palmerston was disposed to be ob
stinate. On the other hand, Russia had some points in
reserve which might easily have been made serious.
One of these arose out of the fact that she claimed her
right to keep the fort of Kars, or to deal with it as a
subject of exchange against other concessions demanded

of her. In particular, Russia indicated that her con
cession of territory on the Bessarabian frontier ought
to be abandoned on the part of the allies, if Russia were
to be called upon to give back Kars. We, on the
contrary, intimated that, as the integrity of Turkey
was a declared object of the war, we could not admit
the right of Russia to consider as her own a fortress so
important to the eastern provinces of Turkey. On our
side, again, we insisted that the fortress of Bomarsund, on
the Aland Islands, which we had captured, should never
be reoccupied by Russia. France was very stiff about
this, and disposed to insist that the preliminaries of
peace should be signed strictly on the ultimatum and
on nothing else, but she promised to support us in the
negotiation of details. To this we were obliged to

agree.

22                TREATY OF PARIS                        [chap. xxvii

    Clarendon left for Paris on the 16th February, 1856.
He soon reported very satisfactory interviews with
both the Emperor and with Orloff, the Russian Envoy.
But at the first meeting of the Conference, Russia
held out stiffly on the subject of Kars, and insisted
on her right to count it as her own. When this
was refused, Orloff declared that his instructions were
exhausted, and that the Conference, so far as he was

concerned, was at an end. Clarendon telegraphed to
ask whether he might demand on our behalf the inde
I Ipendence of Circassia, to which Palmerston replied in
the affirmative.  thought this absurd, but did not
much care what was asked, provided it were not made
a sine qud non. In this state of matters there was a
ICabinet dinner at Labouchere's, which could not
Iattend because   was dining at the Palace. Her
Majesty graciously allowed me to join my colleagues
Iwhen dinner was over.      came, however, too late for
Ithe discussion, which heard had been a warm one ;
the general feeling, however, had been in favour of
           out about Kars   'ttohethleastla's--t,         some were
standing   of going beyond                          and  to renewing
in favour                                          even

the war. Palmerston at this time had the telegraph
to Clarendon in his own hands, and could do very much
what he liked -- so far, at least, as first intentions were
concerned. To all suggestions from Clarendon of
small miscellaneous concessions, Palmerston' s answers
always were to keep strictly to the ultimatum which
Russia had accepted, and not to allow it to be infringed
in the least. Clarendon had secret information that
the Russian Government had disapproved of Orloff' s
unyielding attitude. On the Circassian question,
Clarendon found that no one of the other Plenipoten
tiaries supported him at all, the truth being that any
suggestions of ours in respect to the countries eastward
of the Black Sea were always considered by the other
Powers as made in the interests, direct or indirect, of
our Indian Empire ; and not one of them was in the
least disposed to help us there. At the meeting of the

1856]  THE CONFERENCE OF PARIS                 23

Conference on the 1st March it seemed settled that
Russia would accept the whole ultimatum, including
the Bessarabian cession, and Palmerston felt that
the time had come for giving to Clarendon some
Itgreater freedom in making small concessions for the
sake of peace.  was quite time, because Louis
Napoleon had become somewhat irritated with the
rigidity of the attitude which Clarendon had been
instructed to maintain. On hearing this, Palmerston
wrote an excellent despatch to Clarendon, giving him
greater liberty about details, where greater advantages
could be obtained. Clarendon's account, however, of
the Emperor's tone made him suspicious that he had
some secret understanding with Orloff and Buol. This
induced Palmerston to instruct Clarendon to seek an
interview with the Emperor, and to explain to him very
seriously what our views were.
We must press for a peace not less good than that
which would result from                        carrying into effect of
the conditions agreed on  ainboVnide-nJindae.    The Emperor might
be able to force us into a peace on terms even less good ;

but if he did, we could only defend it on the ground
that France had forced us to accept it, or we might
possibly be compelled to go on with the war alone.
This language had no doubt its effect upon our ally.
On the other hand, there were several items in our
demand on which we submitted to the Emperor's
evident desire to give way before the resistance of
Russia. These were the independence of Circassia, the
non-erection of forts on that coast, and the exclusion
of Nikolaief from the naval arsenals to be destroyed.
We never had expected to get these concessions, and
it was unwise to let the Emperor suppose that we
would insist on them at the risk of war. But what did
alarm us were some indications of hesitation about the
neutralization of the Black Sea, in the form of a
disposition to allow the few vessels retained to be
larger and heavier than was safe. On this Palmerston
was rightly quite determined to allow no room for

24       TREATY OF PARIS                                           [chap. XXVII

dangerous evasions, and we all supported him. He
therefore sent word to the Emperor that we had fol
lowed his advice on the frontier question, but that on
the naval question we could admit of no compromise,
and that we should keep possession of the Euxine till we
were fully satisfied. We consulted Lyons on the class
and number of vessels to be allowed. These terms were
offAertedlastot--Rautssliaas,t--anadftfeorrmhoawlly
                                                      accepted.    painful  a
                                                     long and how
time ! on the 29th of March, 1856, Palmerston met
us in Cabinet withhis                                                 the
         are
Iwords : ' Well, we
                                         pleasantest smile, and with
                                         to have peace to-morrow.'
thought the smile was rather one of good-humoured
resignation to an inevitable fate.
Clarendon reported that in his various conversa
tions with Louis Napoleon at this time he found the
Emperor thinking of nothing but how soon he could
get peace signed, and how agreeable he could make
the wording of the treaty to the Emperor of Russia.
Louis Napoleon said that he had promised to do
this when Russia accepted the ultimatum, and when
her Government appealed to him to make the forms
as little offensive to the dignity of Russia as pos
sible. Clarendon added that even the desire to please
Austria had long before given way to his new Russian
love.

   Palmerston' s jovial ' to-morrow ' was the 30th March,
1856. On that day the Treaty of Paris was signed by
all the Plenipotentiaries, and the Crimean War was
Iended.
    It is needless to say                 that look back on      this event
         etphoechnaitniomn --y ltihfee.                          less in the
as an                                      It was an epoch no   of anxiety,
life of
                                         ending of a time full
of the continual sense of a terrible responsibility. But

Ibefore enter upon the new horizons which now opened
Iout before us, must dwell for a time upon some
problems which the Crimean War left unsolved,
which have returned upon us all in later years, and
which are only too sure to return again, under con

1856]  TREATY OF PARIS  25

tingencies full of difficulty and of danger to the peace
of Europe. As in the physical sciences the most inter
esting problems lie behind the mere facts of Nature, so
in history and in politics the most pregnant questions
lie behind the triumphs of the soldier or the treaties of
the diplomatist.

CHAPTER XXVIII

              1855-56

CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE ON
                     THE CRIMEAN WAR

IIn the account which have given of the origin and
Iprogress of the Crimean War have said nothing of
the Turks as a people or as a Government fitted to rule
Iwith decency over the empire we were defending.

This is no omission on my part. do not recollect in
all the debates of the Cabinet, from the beginning to
the end of the Crimean War, one single discussion on this
question. This was not due to shortsightedness or
neglect, but because that question was to us irrelevant.
We had nothing to do with the merits or demerits of
the Turkish Government, but only with the fate and
disposal of its territories, whenever that Government
should come to an end. What we were insisting upon,
at the risk of a costly and a bloody war, was that the
fate and disposal of Turkey was not to be settled by
Russia, but by the co-operation and consent of Europe.
We started with this principle, as laid down and sanc
tioned in the treaty of 1840, and we were all satisfied
of its soundness and importance. The new treaty of
                          the same principle, and all   itIst
1856 rested entirely on   towards giving effect to it.
provisions were directed
did not deal, and it did not profess to deal, with internal
reforms in the Turkish Empire, except quite incident
ally. Its whole aim was to secure that empire from
being disposed of by Russia, by the use of her great
preponderance of power and her geographical position
of insuperable advantage.

                           26

1855-56]  NATURE OF TREATY OF PARIS  27

   The chief remedial provisions were these : In

the first place, the common acknowledgment of all
the Powers that Turkey was to be recognised as
one of the European Powers, in the fate of which
all the rest had an equal interest and concern.

In the second place, the Black Sea was to be
neutralized-- that is to say, it was to be closed to all

the guns and open to all the commerce of the world.
The special treaties which, as the result of previous
wars, had given to Russia opportunities and excuses
for perpetual interference with the internal affairs of
Turkey, were all abolished. The Sultan agreed to
communicate to all the Powers his new promises to his
Christian subjects ; this promise, however, was not to
be considered as an admission by him of a right of
interference on their part. We did not repudiate any
right of interference resting on other grounds, but we

agreed not to rest it on the fact that the Sultan's

promises were communicated and formally recorded in
the new treaty. The Danubian Principalities and
the Danubian fortresses of Turkey, as also pledges for
the free navigation of the Danube, were placed under

new securities and the guarantee of Europe. All of

these were provisions which added to the safety of
Turkey against invasion on the side of Russia.

    We were not foolish enough to think that this treaty

Bootiffountth1t8otho5ue6grreehcwtow--amsaimsnaentnohdsee.ptcotolleiutImifnceattrhnlyet prweaohrhftiyacdh--thhbenaeodetEnaeaasvntneynyobsafeuntctyEheursprcsoahoproltueoy.l

which took up the cause of the Christian subjects of
the Porte, then the old Memorandum of the Czar
Nicholas, which was still sleeping in the pigeon-holes
of the War Office, would have been the plan upon which
reasonable men might well have fallen back. We might
have called on Russia and the other Powers of Europe
to unite with us in bringing the baleful rule of Turkey
to an end, and in a rational partition of its territory ;
but this heroic remedy was not then within the region

28 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxviii

of practical politics. No agreement of the Powers on
the principle of partition could possibly have been
obtained. Moreover, the whole difficulty had arisen
in a form which did not connect itself at all with any
fault on the part of Turkey. The Sultan was the
aggrieved party. Besides, in defending herself against
a very insidious aggression on the part of Russia,
Turkey was defending the European Treaty of 1840,
in which we had been the principal negotiator, and
which had been specially directed against such secret
engagements with any one Power as those we were now

resisting.
Under those conditions, any final settlement of the
Eastern Question was at that time impossible for us.
Neither at home nor abroad should we have had any
         ahinapvaearnthyya--dscbhauentmaaeltveoerfrnysautsicmvhealalscoshnceoemp--ee.wthoiTchoheurrmes a--ywtahbsee,
support
indeed,
said to

party, namely, of Cobden and Bright, otherwise called
the Manchester School. Their view was that the old
doctrine of a balance of power in Europe was a mere
wawneatsilqikaueaPdtoe--wdtehsrautwpehwriescthsithiwoonuel,dcaonnuodldt iinn' tceprruafmertrpiecleualaturapltlh', awbtuhetRnuaeslvlsoeiwar
Russia to impose on Turkey any engagements she liked
Iby force of arms, and thereby to serve herself heir to
that rich inheritance of the East.  do not stop to
discuss this doctrine here. Suffice it to say that not
one member of the Cabinet agreed in it, and that a
policy founded  on it  would have met with
condemnation            the British people.  a  pItasswioonualtde,
                from
however, have been in itself a rational and a consistent
policy if announced from the beginning and persevered
in to the end.
But there was another policy which was not rational
or consistent, and that was, to be responsible, not only
for beginning the war, but for giving it the significant
direction of a great attack upon the naval arsenal and
fleets of Sebastopol ; to continue that attack till it led

1855-56]             Gladstone's opposition                                             29

to great loss and almost to disaster ; and then suddenly
to desert the cause, and to denounce both the feelings
and the arguments on which that cause depended.

This was the course taken by Gladstone, which it must
be confessed was most trying to his friends. As my
relations with him, however, have been always some

Ipart of my life, and sometimes a great part, wish to
give in this chapter some examples of our correspon
denItcemduustrinbge  the continuance of the Crimean War.
                     remembered that, when Gladstone left                               us,

no question had been raised as to the policy of the war,
or as to the destination and purpose of our attack. The
terrible Siege of Sebastopol had then run a considerable
part of its course, and no thought had arisen in the
minds of any of us of abandoning that great military
Ienterprise, or the great political object which was its
aim.      did not, indeed, for a moment expect that

Gladstone   would    remain   friendly when he had ceased
to belong  to us.             difficult thing for any man to
                     It is a
continue friendly, or even impartial, towards a Cabinet
from which he has withdrawn, but with Gladstone it
was an impossibility. The heat and impetus of his
mind were quite sure to deflect it at the least touch
                     Aacncdorditisngtlayn, gethnotiuagl hfligI htfelctousludrenevoef r
Iof difference,                                                                          be

calculated.                                                                             his
                     did not foresee that the whole
speedy alienation,
special aim and object of our attack upon Sebastopol --
tnhaemeBllya,ckthSeead--eswtrouuctldionbecoofmReutshseianchopsreenpoonbdjeercatncoef     in
                                                                                        his
most furious denunciation. The opportunity came to
him for the first time when the feeble negotiations at
Vienna under Lord John Russell presented for a moment
an appearance of difference between us and our Pleni
potentiary. Gladstone then took with passion the
side, as he thought, of Lord John, and of the ambiguous
and deceptive! phrases in which he was disposed
to recommend a peace. But when Lord John came
home, we have seen how he accepted new lights from
Paris and from us, how he turned completely round,

30 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxviii

and how he finally joined us heartily in speech and
vote. This, however, had no effect on Gladstone. He
had been with us up to the Vienna negotiations. He
was vehemently against us from the moment of their
failure. His ingenious mind invented for itself the
fable that our policy was completely changed when we

did not accept the Austrian terms, and that it was now

perfectly consistent in him to oppose and condemn the
war into which he had helped to plunge us, and in
particular the great military enterprise which was the
most significant indication of its aims, and which he
was one of the loudest to applaud.

  I IThe correspondence which follows refers to this state

of matters. In a letter which have lost had referred

Ito the ' Four Points ' on which we had all been agreed,

and had referred also to the importance we had all

Iattached to securing the support and co-operation of

Austria. On the 12th of May received from Glad
stone the following reply :

                     · 29, B. Square,

' My dear Argyll,    'May 12, 1855.

I' will not refer to the general topics of your letter further

in speaking of our    having adopted, not the
                     particular construction of
you suppose, but a
 with great levity,  used words which meant
I I"thFaonurtoPosainyts,t"haats,

the " Third Point,"

to apply not so much to others as to myself in particular, but not

Iso much to the inadequate consideration of that particular subject

as to the inadequacy of the consideration which generally find on

retrospect that I have given to any weighty public question when

Icompared with its importance. But my main object in writing is

to say how strongly differ from you on the point with regard to

Austria. In my opinion, if Austria has informed England that

she will not go to war for the limitation of fleets, the Government

will incur a frightful responsibility by withholding that fact -- if

Ithey do withhold it-- from the knowledge of Parliament ; and upon

this opinion must act.
                                       ' Believe me, most sincerely yours,

                     ' W. E. Gladstone.'

1855-56]               austeia's attitude                                   31

  IAs this letter seemed to imply that had told him that

Austria had categorically informed us that she would not
act with us in enforcing the principles of limitation (of

Ifleets in the Euxine), and as had not intended to
Iconvey this meaning, wrote the following reply :

'Confidential.                         'Argyll Lodge, Kensington,
                                                             ' MaV 14> 1855-
'My dear Gladstone,
          ' It is not true that Austria has announced to us that she
Iwill never go to war for limitation. If we said so to Parliament,
it would give an entirely false impression.            find Lord John does

not consider that any such intimation has been made, and on

Ilooking back to the papers, find that the very same despatch

which reports some private speech of Buol to such effect in course

of an argument adds that, after hearing the argument out, he

appeared to change his tone and language, and subsequently

Ideclared formally to Russia that Austria reserved           perfect freedom
on this matter.        don't know what you             mean  by saying that
                  on   this point in a certain         way.
" you will act "                                             I can only say

that you have not derived from me any such information as that

                                       you are in possession of in
I Iwhich you seem to   "asfseuamrfeul                               regard  to it.
                                                       There is     indeed  plenty
   ' You speak of a
                                       responsibility

of this on all sides.  am not sure that should feel that responsi

bility to sit the heaviest which would arise from refusing to com
municate to the enemy information, even if it had been true, which

Iwould be of great use to him and of great disadvantage to ourselves.
   ' hope you will remember that negotiations are not, strictly
speaking, closed. You, the peace party, may do much good in

Parliament ; but it will be nice steering which can alone prevent

you doing more harm than good by public debate at this moment.
Arguments to the effect that we have demanded too much already

may assume so pro-Russian an aspect as to create nothing but a

violent reaction. Arguments pointing out the dangerous conse

Iquences of demanding more as committing us to an almost

interminable war will certainly do good -- at least, think so -- for

this is the popular tendency, and the public have had little serious

thought yet on what they do want, and what they will be com

mitted to, if they don't hold hard.

  I' am sure you will like my writing to you without reserve what

32 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxvm

Ioccurs to me.  am sincerely desirous of seeing peace well advo
Icated by an independent party in Parliament ; mean a peace

Iconsistent with the original objects of the war.
               ' am, my dear Gladstone, yours very sin'cAerreglyy, ll/

To this, again, Gladstone replied as follows :

'My dear Argyll,                      ' 29, B. Square,
                                              ' May 14> lg55.

   ' Beyond all doubt, it is a matter of the greatest gravity,

even for persons like myself, without authority to separate them

selves in the face of the world from the policy of their Government,

who act for, and commit, the country in regard to the war.

Avowed differences in Parliament upon questions where every
difference is vital must more or less weaken your hands, and may
inspire the enemy with exaggerated hopes.

   ' But at this moment, as it appears to me, he is reasonable and

I Iyou are unreasonable. When you tell me, as a ground for silence

-- so understand you -- that negotiations are not closed, reply

ifthat it is a good ground for silence the Government are disposed
to make an effort to recover an opportunity they have thrown

away. But it is no reason for silence if the continued negotiations

are to be conducted in the spirit which met the second Russian

proposal by the declaration on the part of the English Minister

that his instructions were exhausted.

  I I' am sorry to say all that see and hear tends to the conclusion

that the English Government, and the English Government alone,

Iis the cause which has prevented peace from being, in substance,
made within the last three weeks.  have no doubt whatever that
if it had done otherwise it would have been abused, assailed,

perhaps overthrown. On the other hand, it
                                   I            suppose, most
                                          iIs,
probable that your warlike counsels will be for the present highly

'approved.

     In the way of caution, all could do have done, namely, to
take care that some member, at least, of the Government should
                '

                        I
know my apprehensions, and now my intentions, beforeI  am

committed to anyone else.

                  Believe me, most sincerely yours,

                                                 W. E. Gladstone.1
                                   '

1856-56]       AtrSTEO-RUSSIAN PROPOSALS                     33

   As it seemed to me that Gladstone did not understand

the objections we had to the Austro-Russian proposals

Iwhich we had rejected at Vienna, and as thought the
Ifutility of them demonstrable, addressed him again

in another letter :

' Private.                     ' Argyll Lodge, Kensington,

   ' My dear Gladstone,                      'May 17, 1855.

   I' It increases, of course, the painful sense have had for the

last month of the difficult and responsible position in which we
have been placed, to know that you have so decidedly made up
your mind that the continuation of the war is due to our fault,

and that an honourable and satisfactory peace might have been

attained.

   'The weight, however, which should naturally attach to your

Iopinion is, on this question, somewhat modified by the conviction

   entertain that you have receded, and are receding, from the
common ground on which we stood when members of the same

Government.

"  ' This is indicated by the  language in   which you refer to the
   Four Points.'1 You seem     to feel that  you did not sufficiently

consider their scope and bearing when they were originally laid

down, and that a new light has been thrown upon the third by the

Idiscussions at Vienna, or, at least, by the proposals of Russia. But
  will assume  that   you  still agree that one very essential object of
the war is to          an  end to Russian preponderance in the Black
               " put

ISea.'1 The question, then, is whether the Russian proposal really
does effect this object.   cannot conscientiously say that it does ;

it certainly was a pity that we ever laid down the "Third Point" as

a basis of agreement with Russia at all, because her proposal is one

which offers nothing which she has any power of withholding. It

merely amounts to an acknowledgment on her part of the right of
Turkey to hold absolutely the keys of her own straits. We might
make a treaty with Turkey now, without any dealing with Russia,

securing our own right of entry through those straits on any

condition which Turkey may choose to agree to.
   ' This, however, is an argument against our own mode of pro

ceeding rather than against the proposal itself. But as to that
   vol. n.
                                             3

34 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxvtu

proposal itself, how far can you say that it would put an end to
"Russian preponderance11? Your own argument against our
proposal is that it involves the possible entry into the Black Sea

of a force unjustly superior to that which Russia would be able to

maintain for purposes of defence. You admit that the same

argument would apply even to allowing Turkey to give unre

stricted access to our fleets added to her own ; and your only

rejoinder is-- Volenti non Jit injuria -- if Russia chooses to submit
                                it,
                                      is
to the danger and offers you don't desire to suggest to her how

          the concession she              making. Well, but what does all
great  is

                         ?
this point to Why, that Russia will be under the temptation,
and even necessity for purposes of defence, to augment rather than

decrease her   forSceheinwitlhl esaEyuxi"ne.     She will plead   your   argument
for doing so.                      :          have agreed to     allow  Turkey to

                                     ;I I
send in whenever she pleases a great combined fleet to ravage my

shores and bombard my towns                   must keep up a large standing

navy to meet such a contingency.11

  This would appear to be the natural, not necessary, course of
?'                                            if

events. What, then, the result which the Russian proposal tendsis

to That she shall keep up a larger navy than ever in the Black

Sea, that her preponderance as against Turkey will be strengthened

and confirmed, and that the possibility of that preponderance, even

as against the Western Powers, being at all affected will depend on

the contingencies of France and England having large fleets ready

at a moment's notice, and those two Powers being in such per

manent alliance as to be disposed to use those fleets in combination

and for the same purpose.                               " putting an end to

     Can  any man say       with    truth that this?     quite admit that
Russian   preponderance       in   the Black Sea "
''                                                  I is                   it it it
      is
may be represented as such a nominal fulfilment of the condition
      it
that we may retreat from our former position under cover of it.?
But anything more

   If the evils of war are so great that we dare not bear them,

may be a good reason for such a retreat or, you think we have
                                              ;

                                                    if

been so beaten that we have little hope of success, that would be a

still better reason for retreating. But don't let us disguise that

would be a retreat, involving all the great moral and political

consequences which could not be separated from the retreat of the

two greatest nations of Europe.

1855-56]          mr. Gladstone's views                                   35

  I' However, what chiefly wish to say to you is this : that you,

the peace party, ought to consider very carefully how you can so
guide the debate as to promote really and effectually the cause of

peace.

  I' dread as much as you do our getting committed to conditions

the  attainment   of which would   involve us  ainrguweadrsthoaf tw"hilcimh itnaotiomnan"
can  foresee the  end. Already
                                  it has been

of fleets is useless. That means that we must go on to dismember
Iment, to occupation or alienation of Russian territory.     think it

most useful that the consequences of committing the honour and
blood of England to such a war should be pointed out, resolutely

and clearly traced.                            from  Cobden  that, if I

  ' It was in reply to such an argument

recollect rightly, Lord John was induced to declare that he sought

no Russian territory. That declaration was a landmark, and other

similar declarations may be deduced by arguments pointed in the

same direction.

  I' But rather dread the tendency of arguments going the length

of those you have been using lately. They will certainly tend to
reduce the strong objections entertained to anything short of

limitation ; and I confess that, although I think those objections as
Istrong as possible, should prefer to see this question left open to
Iconsideration as long as it can be.

                                  ' am, my dear Gladstone,
                                                       ' Yours most sincerely,

                                                                     ' Argyll.'

Between the date of the close of the Vienna Confer
ences in May, 1885, and the       fall of                                 in
September, 1855, our political    letters            cSeeabsaesdt.opoIlt  is

always a fine thing to see a public man breasting the
waves of popular condemnation, running high against
him. Agreement in his opinions is not required. On
the other hand, our admiration must be affected by his
personal consistency, and by the circumstances under

which those opinions have been adopted. In this case
both those criteria of judgment seemed to me to tell
against my friend's course. Gladstone had shared
with us the responsibility of the attack upon Sebastopol,
                                                     3--2

36 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxvm

which could have no other sense or meaning except
some such stipulation for the future as that which we
were now demanding, and this stipulation Gladstone
was advising the enemy to resist with his last man and
his last rouble. Fortunately, we could be at our ease
as regards the country, which was supporting us with
almost an excess of zeal. But in proportion as they
were passionate,  Gladstone                             was   c'oYnoteumrptuoucsa. nnoOnn      the
21st August he    wrote to                              me :       ' I.                        are
                                                                               (!)
roaring before Sebastopol, and the music certainly                                          :
pleases the ear of the middle class, which calls itself the                               3,

country.'
There was not the slightest ground for this distinc
tion. The general tone of all classes was the same.
When the fall of Sebastopol came at last, early in
September, 1855, Gladstone was, very naturally, in a
hurry to hear of peace. So was                                        But arguments
such as those he had been using were among the impedi
ments in our way. They had stimulated the passion
that asked for more. Amid the excitement and shouts
of victory                                              not only to   prolong, but to
extend the  wwe awr.ereIturwgeads,                      under these   conditions that

Gladstone wrote to me the following letter

I'                                                                          Hawarden, Chester,

                  it                                                           'October 1855.

                 Iwill only say wait with great anxiety and great eagerness
to know at the proper time what steps are being taken for peace
                                                     ;now that the grand consummation, the fall of Sebastopol, has been
achieved with so much glory in triumphing over so brave, obstinate,
and skilful a resistance and my belief that you execrate with me
the abominable doctrine now preached right and left by those who
in May last assured us the most loudly that Sebastopol was the
great object of the war and the one obstacle to peace, but who now
coolly describe as the first act of the great tragedy, and quietly
bid us prepare for the other four.

                                                               W. E. Gladstone.'
                                                                   '

1855-56]   mr. Gladstone's views                             37

   Having replied to this in a letter reminding him of
the difficulties to be overcome, and especially of his
having once expressed to me his sense of the debt we
owed to Palmerston for having concentrated the atten

Ition of the Cabinet upon the expedition to Sebastopol,

   received the following reply :

'. My dear A. rgyll,                                 ' Ha WARDEN,
                                                 ' October 18, 1855.

         ' You have conferred a great obligation on me in one part

of your letter of the 9th by putting me into the witness-box and
         me why I thought
asking                      last  year that we   were   under an obliga
tion to   Lord Palmerston         concentrating    the
                           for "                        attention of the

Cabinet on the expedition to the Crimea."                    even

  I' Such was then my feeling, entertained so strongly that
Iwrote to him for the purpose of giving to it the most direct
expression, and such is my feeling still.        think the fall of

Sebastopol, viewed in itself and apart from the mode in which it

has been brought about, a great benefit to Europe. The same

might perhaps be said of some other fortified places not Russian,

and even of the camp at Boulogne which our "great ally," the

sincerity of whose attachment to us is so much beyond question,

has created, of course, for purposes purely defensive. This benefit

I should have contemplated with high and, so to speak, unmixed
Isatisfaction, were well assured as to the means by which we had

Iachieved it. But, of course, there is a great difference between a
war which  felt, however grievous it was, yet to be just and

needful, and a war carried on without any adequate justification

Iand, so far as can to this hour tell, without even any well-defined

practicable object.

  ' I hope that my answer to your very fair question is intelligible,

whether it has your concurrence or not.

  I' Next, quite agree that the destruction of Sebastopol and of

the fleet does not of itself dispose of the question of stipulations

for the future distribution of power in the Black Sea. It, how

Iever, considerably alleviates that question ; and as to stipulations,

am much disposed to think, though subject to correction, that in
its bearing upon the future peace of the world the Russian plan
No. 2 of May last was really wiser and safer than the demand we

38 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxviii

made, less entangling and less fraught with the elements of future

dispute, but I could thankfully have taken either.
  ' You say, with great truth, that I am not justified in charging

Iupon the man who thinks higher terms than would take necessary

for a staple peace that he holds an abominable doctrine. My

intention was to apply that charge only to those who before the
conquest of Sebastopol said that we might make peace after it upon

terms that could not previously be accepted, but whose appetite

has grown with what it fed upon and has exhibited itself since the

capture of Sebastopol in the abandonment of all definite language

as to peace, and in flying to vague generalities about humbling

Russia, securing Europe, promoting civilization, and the like.

  I' Your letter-- if must now pass from the defensive--seems to

involve assumptions as to our right to rectify the distribution of

political power by bloodshed which carry it far beyond just bounds.
  'In the hour of success doctrines and policy are applauded or

pass unquestioned even under misgiving which are very differently

handled at a period of disaster or when a nation comes to feel the

embarrassments it has accumulated.
   ' The Government are certainly giving effect to the public

opinion of the day. If that be a justification, they have it, as all

Governments of England have had in all wars at eighteen months

from their commencement.
   ' Apart from the commanding consideration of our duty as men

and Christians, I am not less an objector to the post- April policy

on the ground of its certain or probable consequences in respect,

first and foremost, to Turkey ; in respect to the proper place and

power of France ; in respect to the interest which Europe has in

keeping her and us all within such place and power ; in respect to

the permanence of our friendly relations with her ; and, lastly, in

respect to the effects of continued war upon the condition of our

I Iown people and the stability of our institutions. But each of these
requires an octavo volume.  must add another head : view

with alarm the future use against England of the argument and

accusations we use against Russia.

  I' You have shown no cause against coming here on your way

south, so hope you will appear and let me answer, vivd voce, your

q1uestion about Homer.      ', Most.    .,       yours,

                                      sincerely
                                      ' W. E. Gladstone.'

1856-56]     MR. GLADSTONE AND RUSSIA                          39

ITo this letter replied as follows :

' Private.                                        ' Rosneath,

                                       ·October 24, 1855.
'I' My dear Gladstone,
            must thank you for your last letter.  I think I can

gather from it very clearly what are the predominant feelings in

Iyour mind which have determined your recent course in respect
to the war.  find myself in the somewhat strange position of

often sympathizing much more with you than with most of those
Iwho speak and talk about the war, even when agree in their
I Igeneral conclusion.
             mean that feel very strongly all the

dangers and inconveniences arising out of this war, to which you

Ispecifically allude. For example, agree with you in wishing our

selves well out of-- not an alliance with France, but that close

Icopartnery which has been established. Secondly, agree in the

danger which exists to our internal institutions in the long con

Itinuance of war. Thirdly, agree with you in respect to the
Iexhausting effect of the contest upon Turkey ; and, lastly, am
jealous of the extent to which the war may be pushed if an extreme

interpretation is to be given to the "balance of power," and we
are to fight on till Russia has been reduced to some theoretical

standard of due influence and power.

  ' Where, then, do we differ? I have no difficulty in putting my

finger on the point. You express very moderately and guardedly
your opinion on that very question on which the whole argument

as regards the justice of this present war depends. Was the
Russian proposal, or was it not, a sufficiently satisfactory solution

of the Eastern Question, for which you agreed to go to war, and
                         it ?
Ifor which we are now continuing towaag"eApril policy" as dis
                        post-          consider it  identical.
   ' I dispute your right to speak of

tinguished from the " pre-February
             policy."
You may argue that the terms offered at Vienna would have ful

filled sufficiently the purposes for which the war was begun. But
you surely will not argue that, for example, the neutralization of
the Euxine would not fulfil those purposes still better.

   ' You may contend very fairly that the abolition of all the Russo-

ITurkish treaties was a sufficient abdication of her former preponder

ance in those regions ; but really must call upon you to admit

40 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [ohap. xxvm

that the abolition of her navies is at least an additional guarantee

against that preponderance being revived.

  ' I don't object to your maintaining that this would be an

addition to our demands not worth the cost and bloodshed of a

Iprolonged war. That is a matter of opinion, and fairly open to

argument. It is a point upon which have never had a doubt.
But if I had, I should not feel myself entitled to establish the
smallest difference of principle between the war to which I was a

'Iparty in February and the war which is being waged now.
        don't know what you mean when you say that you would

consider the destruction of Sebastopol an unmixed good to Europe,
if you were well assured of the means by which it has been effected.
IThe means
                                                                                    were jointly
responsible
               are those identical    means         bwyhic"hmeyaonus  and           refer rather
               for resorting to.                                      " you
                                    And if

Ito the objects for which the destruction of Sebastopol was sought,

then contend that they have undergone no change whatever since

you left the Government. I don't mean that you or I might not

Iconsistently have raised the Siege of Sebastopol the moment

Russia offered to give up her treaties. But do mean to say that

this was never understood by us to be an ultimate object, or one

which would have satisfied the whole intentions of the Crimean

Expedition.
  I' You tell me that when
Imate, imply " assumptions          indicate still further objects as legiti
                                    as to our right to rectify the distribu

tion of political power by bloodshed which carry it far beyond
just bounds* Yes; but you admit the "right of rectifying the

distribution of political power by bloodshed within certain bounds,"

for you went to war upon that right and in the exercise of it.
                                    how do you define "just bounds"? Can
The only question?
                          ;

                                  is,

                                           it
                                                it
you draw a sharp line between the conditions which you agreed

t"oneduetrmaaliznadtioannd"  those   which        we now     dseamy,an"d,so  supposing,  e.g.,
                             to be  a main        item, and                  far has     been
                                                                             is
jwursotngan"d  right, but beyond all your bloodshed                             is    unjust and
                Let us recollect that Louis Napoleon                                no blacker a
                                                                                  it

sheep now than he was when we began this very intimate alliance.

Whatever danger there was in                        of raising an undue military

preponderance on the part of France existed in February as well

as in October so of the danger to our internal institutions so of                     ;
the danger to Turkey -- all excellent reasons for stopping the war

1855-56]    OBJECTS OF THE CRIMEAN WAR                              41

when its original objects have been attained, but of no value

whatever as arguments in respect to what those objects were or

ought to be.                                   We expect the

  ' I am shocked by poor Molesworth's death.

Duke of S., etc.,                              ' Argyll.'

' Private.                                     ' Rosneath,

' My dear Gladstone,                           'November 1, 1855.

          I' fully agree with you in desiring to see peace founded on

conditions which so far as possible may have the elements of

durability, and may not depend only on the continued joint action
of France and England, or, at least, may depend on that action

Ionly as part of the general and admitted policy of Europe.

    ' But don't see that the prohibition of fleets in the Euxine

would answer this description less well than the mere abolition

of Russo-Turkish treaties. Do you? It seems to me, on the
contrary, that the prohibition of fleets, if once assented to, is the

most self-acting condition that could be devised.

  ' It is true that gunboats or even larger craft might be secretly

or quietly "got up" at a time when the rest of Europe might be

otherwise engaged, and especially when France and England
Ishould be in antagonism.
                                don't deny that. But surely the

I
                  I

                                          is,

                                  I
same line of argument  to say the least, quite as good as against
the effectiveness of a mere re-signation of old treaties. You know

how we used to argue, and with truth, that the strength of the

Russian position for aggression against Turkey lay, not in the

treaties, but in the facts and conditions of which those treaties
were but the faint expression.                 used to maintain this argument,

recollect, when was resisting being driven to demand as a sine

and non the abolition of all the old treaties, and maintain now
                                               I
when that condition had been secured, or, at least, after has beenI it

                                                                it
offered. No condition depends more entirely for its effectiveness
on the continued and watchful attention of the Powers to whose

demand Russia professes to yield it.I'

       have no hesitation in saying that the objects of the war have
in my mind undergone no change at aU. Of those objects regard

42 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxvm

   " Four      Points " as still                                            but   not
               understanding of
   popular                                                                  are.
Ithe                              awnhaatdethqeua"teFoeuxrprPeosisniotns,"             on

the
  'In the  course of last winter sent                atheMe"mFooruanr duPmointsto"  Lord
           pointing out how completely
Aberdeen,                                                                           com

prehended all the objects of the war, and especially how wide was

the margin which they leave as regards the means by which those

Iobjects may be attained. And so completely does this Memorandum

embody my opinion on this matter that sent it afterwards to

ILord  Palmerston when the Vienna Conferences were                     closed.    naviga
   '   am not prepared to say, for example, whether                   the free

tion of the Danube can ever be secured, so long as Russia has

fortifications  at its  "moorut"h.basisTh" aist  is  a question   as  to the means by
                point                            to  be secured.
which that "                                                          It is no question

Iasto  the enlargement  of, or departure             from,  thtehe"  oAryigeinTMalanodbje"ctN. o  "
   '   admit the truth  of what you say              as to

question of peace or war. It is a matter of judgment, on the

balance of public policy, between the one course and the other.

And very slight circumstances may affect the judgment either way.
IBut then,
                think our language respecting our own conclusion
Iought to have a corresponding character.
                                                                  thoroughly under

stand any man having come to the conclusion last April that on the
whole it was wiser to accept peace on the terms offered than to

refuse them.      Probabilities of  success, hopes of             alliances, prospects
of assistance                       contributed to                such a conclusion
                --all may have

according as each mind might be influenced. But then, a con

clusion come to upon such balances must not be defended on

arguments which have reference to very different elements of
I Idecision.
                am sure feel as hostile as you do to much of the
I Iwar language that see in the press and hear elsewhere. But

have always felt since you parted from us that your language and

arguments were directed quite as logically against the war in all

Iits stages.    hold with you that we ought to have definite objects,
    ' However,

and not fight for the sake merely of what may turn up. You, on

the other hand, will agree that the means by which those objects

are to be secured can never be really settled until the time of

treaty comes. As Lord Aberdeen himself said, "They will be
different if the allies get to St. Petersburg from what they would
be if the Russians get to Constantinople.'" How you might have

1855-56]     OBJECTS OF THE CRIMEAN WAR                         43

Idenounced   from this text if these words   had   fallen from  P: al"mHeersrteonwe!
  recollect                                 the   time saying
             the foolish newspapers at

have a Minister confessing that he has no fixed conditions or

objects, and that he will allow the just demands of Europe, etc.,

Ito be determined by events.1'

  ' But must stop. I hope to be able to pay you a visit before
Ithis month closes ; but you know must take care not to have it
Isaid-- if am in any degree peaceful -- " Oh, you come fresh from

Hawarden," for even on such a disputatious and contradictious

Scot as I am, you are supposed to have the most dangerous

influences.                    ' Ever yours most truiy>
                                                         ' Argyll.1

                                                  * Hawarden,
                                                  ' December 1, 1855.
' My dear Argyll,
       I I' As do not know how long may be in London after
I IWindsor, or what chance may have of seeing you there, write
to say that I hope to arrive at Windsor from Chester by a train

Iwhich, starting hence at 9.5, gets to London at 3.30, and therefore
should be in Windsor about 3.  know not whether you will by

that time have disappeared."

  I' One word only on your
                      safe     conscience.11      "WYhoaut         find press
                                                                went to war
hardest among the reproaches upon me is this :

for limited objects. Why did you not take into account the high

probability that those objects would be lost sight of in the excite

ment which war engenders, and that this war, if once begun, would

receive an extension far beyond your views or wishes ?"
   ' Now let us shift the ground and take the present moment for

starting-point instead of, say, December 1, 1853. You have, now,

limited objects. It is not only in their first stage that wars are
Iapt to extend. When you say, " These are my objects, and can
I Iwith a safe conscience fight indefinitely long till attain them,"

ask myself whether you ought not now to take into view prob

abilities analogous to those which I, for one, certainly had not

Isufficiently in my mind two years ago.

   'When we meet shall tell you how Post Office Sunday re

striction practically has worked and still works here.
                                                   ' Most sincerely yours,
                                                             ' W. E. Gladstone.'

44 CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE [chap. xxvih

                                         ' Windsor Castle,

'My dear Argyll,                                  'Decembers, 1855.

      I' I stay until Wednesday, and can come to you at Stafford
House, if bidden, about two o'clock or at any later hour, or at any

hour on Thursday.                   named is the one most nearly

  II' do mean that the reproach
Ijust. What the weight due to it is forbear finally to judge until
I Isee the conclusion of this tremendous drama ; but see quite

enough to be aware that the particular hazard in question ought
                                                  me. It may be good
I Ito have been more sensibly and clearly before
                                                  forego ends that are
logic and good sense, think, to say,     " will

just  for   fear of being driven   upon the pursuit of others that are
not   so "                         a particular case depends very much
            ; whether it ii so in

upon the probable amount of the driving-power and of the resisting

force which may be at our command.
                                            ' Ever most sincerely yours,

                                                             ' W. E. Gladstone.'

                                                  ' HA WARDEN,

'My dear Argyll,                                  'January 18, 1856.

      ' It was most kind in you to back the telegraph by a note

of your own, which, although perhaps it had no other foundation,

yet was subjectively worth a great deal more.
   ' You know my fears about neutralization, and can well judge

Ithat have misgivings as to the meaning of the Russian accept

ance on that point. The future Foreign Secretary, however, must
Itake care of himself.
                        should hope that now we may begin to
feel sanguine as to your getting us out, and if you do, an immense

I Igood upon the whole will have been achieved.
' like, as far as understand
                        I           the stipulation about the Aland

                              it,
Isles, and especially the removal of the Russian frontier from the

Danube. At the same time, should have been sorry to see the

war carried on for those objects alone.

      We have had the measles in the house, and have been detained
'
                    '
here accordingly. To-morrow evening, however, we hope to be in

London for good, as the saying is.

                       Believe me always, most sincerely yours,

                                                               W. E. Gladstone.1
                                           '

                   CHAPTER XXIX

                                                 1856-57

SYMPDOAFITFHFMYIRCSUW. LISTTTYHOWWTEIHTEHTOACNHETNINIG-ASLL--AANVGDEERNAYENRDAMLTOOVEELINMEVCEETNRITOA--NRAVYIS--IT

Horizons wholly new of political thought and action
were now about to open on Europe and the world.

And it is a curious circumstance that the curtain which
as yet concealed them had its fringe first lifted by the

same small group of men whose official duty it was
to wind up the transactions of the epoch that had

gone before.
The Plenipotentiaries of the European Powers who
had met in Paris had signed the treaty of peace
on the 30th March, 1856, but the formal exchange
of ratifications did  not take place for nearly a month
later--till the 27th   of  Atoprail.verTyhsisingpuelarirodusoef--anammoenlyth,
spent in Paris they   put
that of discussing various questions of difficulty in the
foreign politics of Europe, which had nothing to do with
the Crimean War or with the Eastern Question, and
with which, so far as was known, they had received no
instructions from their Governments to meddle at all.
The initiative in this, apparently gratuitous, under
taking was assumed by the French Plenipotentiary
Walewski, on the 8th of April, in a well-considered and
judicious speech, suggesting that, as it so happened
that Europe was assembled in a Congress on a particular
subject, it might be wise to take the opportunity of
trying whether on some other subjects something might

                           46

46 THE ANTI-SLAVERY MOVEMENT [chap. xxix

not be done for the future peace of Europe, seeing that

Ithe horizon was by no means free from clouds.
      have no recollection that any such enlargement of
Ihis powers was ever given to Clarendon by consent of

the Cabinet, but have little doubt that it was agreed
to by Palmerston in private communication with the
French Emperor, through Clarendon. There was only
one of the subjects named by Walewski on which differ
ences would be liable to arise, and that was some
changes in the laws of maritime capture. The other
subjects concerned those military occupations by
France and Austria of different parts of Italy, which
were the still standing results of that great reaction of
authority against the revolutionary insurrections of

1848.

The result of this supplementary Congress was re
markable for our agreeing to abandon privateering,
and also to abandon our claim to seize enemy's goods
on board of neutral vessels. For the future we con
         toorad'mFirteetheshpirpisncimplaekethaftre'eThgeoofldasg
sented                                                             '  covers the
goods,'
                                                                      -- a great
change in our traditional contention, but one which
the changed and still rapidly changing conditions of

the maritime world rendered it every year increasingly
dangerous to resist. On the other subjects brought
under the notice of this supplementary Congress,
nothing was or could be done, except to record the
expressed or implied admission of all the great military
Powers that the occupation of Italy and of Greece
ought to be brought to an end as soon as possible.
The bad internal government of Naples was alluded to
with reserve.
   This was only  a  glimpse --but  it  was  a  glimpse --into

the new horizon on which we were about to enter, and
into the new cycle of events which was very soon to
bring about great wars, and end in the largest changes

Iin the map of Europe.

   About this time took some part in avoiding a
dangerous antagonism with the United States upon

1856]      THE NICARAGUAN QUESTION   47

one of those questions connected with the South
American wars which were continually recurring.
What happened affords a curious illustration of the
peculiarities of Palmerston's character. In a Cabinet
held on June 7th, Palmerston had told us that he
thought we ought to send out a powerful fleet to
Greytown, on the coast of Nicaragua, to maintain
certain rights of protectorate there which we had long
claimed. The President of the United States had
suddenly recognised a Government there which was
supported by an American filibuster. We held that
Greytown belonged to Mosquito, and not to Nicaragua.
Palmerston added that the only way we could act
effectually would be by blockade. The Americans
had sent a powerful frigate. The Cabinet seemed to be
disposed to agree that we should strengthen our fleet.

  I Isuggested any difficulty and objection could, and
especially urged that though the public would support
us in any war into which we might be driven by
British interests, we should not be supported in a war
engaged in for such a pure fiction as the Mosquito
Protectorate. To my great surprise, Clarendon acqui
esced in this opinion, but fell back on the repeated
declarations of all former Governments in this country,
committing Great Britain as a point of honour to
maintain the nominal sovereignty of Mosquito over
Greytown. He said that he did not see his way out of
them ; but so fully did he agree with me that a sentence
in his prepared instructions to our Admiral, which laid
down the protectorate as the basis on which he was to
found his action, was a sentence which he told us he
Iwould like to modify as much as possible. After a

long discussion, declared my opinion to be that we
ought to limit our instructions to the defence of British
life and property, and especially that we ought not to
blockade,  Ithuerrgeebdy             obstructing American com
merce.                    seriously  execution of the blockade
                          that the
would infallibly bring us into collision with the United
States, who would complain of the practical inconveni

48  THE ANTI-SLAVERY MOVEMENT                              [chap. xxes

ence to which their citizens would be subjected in one

of the great highways of the Western States. Just as
the Cabinet was breaking up my arguments seemed to
have some effect, and Clarendon suggested that we

should at least delay till the American reply to our
Enlistment Despatch had been received.

  I utilized the time gained by going over all the papers
Itoinhna1tth85ese3v--seurbhajael dcot,ffutalhlnyedma--dmweaistpsteeadcigartlehlyeeabognlryeeastfurorcpmhraisnLegdoersdtowJhofiihncnhd
had taken place since we had assumed and asserted the
Mosquito dominion over Greytown ; that this dominion
had now become a pure fiction ; and that we were per
Ifectly willing to make some new arrangement which

might square theories with the facts. also found that
the American Government had quite agreed with us in
1852 on the basis of an arrangement for settling the
whole question, and that the failure of this scheme was
not due to them, but  thoadthetowdreetaclh. edItlitwtlaes
with which we both                                         Governments
                                                           less pleasant
to find that Clarendon's own recent despatches had
rather tended to go back on the old ground, in conse
Iquence of the less reasonable temper of the American
Government under President Buchanan.                       therefore

wrote to Clarendon on the morning of our next Cabinet,
bringing forward all these and other points, and urging
that we should fall back as much as possible on the
tone of Lord John's despatch, and do all we could to
Iswing loose from the old high doctrine of protectorate.

   At the next meeting of the Cabinet was greatly
relieved to find that both Palmerston and Clarendon
had very much altered their minds. Our Admiral was
now only instructed to protect British life and property,
and to forbid the filibustering General from actually
occupying Greytown. Not very consistently, there
was a preliminary passage laying down strongly our
old doctrine of a Protectorate, but on my urging its
incongruity, the Cabinet agreed to strike it out, and
Palmerston expressed his ready assent.


                 I' i! r. \-.-\

            '·I<'.tf-'? ::! -I'le

            . n        -: :» as

                         . to

                       a -it we

                         to our

                   'laj.*-rs

                 i w find
                 ,:{ John
                                     }

                 ;·      ii   
                       . !.'-
                                    ·!>
                                
                                  i

                       
                           t

                              t'«< in
                                '
                                -.1
                         '
                                     

                         i ;· itV,
                             V

old:

J7J.-I >'.

Talii.


· «· ·    · ·· · ·· ·
    ·
        · · ······

                 aa ·

1856]             PALMERSTON                                                    40

The whole of this passage is typical of what I have
often observed in Palmerston. His first impulse was
always to move fleets and to threaten our opponents,
sometimes on trivial occasions, on the details of which
he had not fully informed himself by careful reading.
Then, on finding his proposals combated, he was candid

in listening and in inquiring, and if he found the objec
tions reasonable, he could give way to them with the
most perfect good-humour. This was a great quality
in a   smoanprosoneimtopuvlsioivleenat nadctsioons.tronItg-hmeaaddeedhimas  he was,
and                                                                         a much
less dangerous man than he was supposed to be. But
it made it an all-important matter that he should have
colleagues who understood him, and were not afraid of
him. Only a few days before, he had amused us all
immensely by his explanation of another retreat which
he told us he thought it expedient to make. The
matter was one of those small ones which sometimes

give great trouble. Palmerston had put at the head
of the Board of  Works    one of his
Sir Benjamin     Hall --  a strong,   own special supporters,
                                      rather obstinate man,
not over-courteous in his dealings with men, and corre
spondingly unpopular. One of his novelties was the
introduction of   bands of music in the parks
                   considerable agitation, and  on Sundays.
It raised a very                                 Palmerston
was besieged to check the vagaries of a Minister who
seemed to take pleasure in affronting the religious
world. So far did it go that Palmerston was warned
that an adverse vote in the House of Commons would
not improbably be carried. Palmerston therefore told
us in Cabinet that, though he himself highly approved
of the bands on Sunday, he thought it would be prudent
to give way, adding : ' The clergy, who were on the
whole well-intentioned people, were committing a pious
fraud in making the working classes believe that those
measures would end in their being called upon to work
on Sundays, which was not at all true,' etc. This is a
perfect specimen of the easy good-humour with wliich
Palmerston treated all sorts and conditions of men when
vol. n.
                                                                            4:

50 THE ANTI-SLAVERY MOVEMENT [chap. xxix

he came into  contact with them,  even  when such con
tact was one                       was  a characteristic
              of antagonism. It
to which his growing popularity at this time was
greatly due. His older popularity was entirely founded
on foreign affairs, in which the British public are
rather fond of games of bluff. But now, when in the
multifarious transactions of his office as Prime Minister
his moderation and good temper came to be often felt,
                                     huannidvse--rsanlofaovnoeumritoer.e
he was becoming more and    more a
                           into his
His very opponents played
conspicuously than Lord Derby, who at this time chose
to attack us in the House of Lords upon the changes to
which we had consented in the laws of maritime
capture (at the Conference in Paris). We had already
triumphed in the Commons on another item in our
peace, and at a private meeting of the party on the
28th of April, Palmerston was received with enthusiasm,
whilst in the House of Commons on the 2nd May we
triumphed with the extraordinary majority of 127.
   Nothing, therefore, could be more futile than Derby's
attack on us about maritime law. Lord Colchester
Iwas chosen by Derby to lead off on his side. Clarendon
spoke excellently.  spoke later in the debate, and
delivered a speech of strict reasoning on the facts of
the maritime world in our time, and rather taunted the
Opposition with not venturing to try the vote in the
other House, where the maritime interests of the
country were more specially represented. This, and the
knowledge of what was to follow, seemed to exasperate
Derby, and he delivered a speech of great petulance
and of personal attack on me, which was not very
worthy of the occasion. On a division, we beat him
by a majority of fifty. This was rather a notice
able result, because it reassured us of the disposition
of the House of Lords to                Palmerston' s
              It had been  support      the features
Government.                one of
of the Aberdeen Cabinet that it had always been

steadily supported by the Upper House, although

it was the stronghold of what remained of the Pro

1856]     LORD ABERDEEN AND GLADSTONE                                   51

tectionist party, and that party had the powerful
leadership of Lord Derby. Palmerston's Cabinet was
nothing but a prolongation of Aberdeen's, with a few
personal changes ; but quite latterly we had felt less
confidence in the support of the Peers. This vote,
therefore, on a ticklish question of maritime law, and
in the teeth of a very violent speech from Derby,
made us feel tolerably secure of our position in the
House of Peers. In truth,          the Opposition was  com
                                   no name to conjure  with.
pletely broken up. It had
Lord John Russell was entirely discredited. So was
Gladstone, because of his violent pro-Russian speeches,
during a war of which he had been one of the leading
authors. His continued animosity to Palmerston after
the peace, on every question on which opposition could
possibly be raised, did not tend to rehabilitate him in
Ithe public estimation. His best friends were well

aware of this, of which find a curious example in my
journal.
An Irish member of the name of Moore had
long threatened a motion in the Commons censuring
us on the enlistment trouble with America. At
Ilast this motion was to be brought forward upon
the 1st July.  On that   '         evening   find in my journal
               entry :             Aberdeen   spoke to me in
the following
great anxiety as to Gladstone's vote to - night.
He had been with him to-day, quite undecided how
Ihe should vote, since Graham had told him that he
t(hGarathaImh)adwonuold  not vote  with Moore.      told Aberdeen
                         anxiety   as regarded  the result, since
Gladstone would only drive men away from voting as
he voted rather than attract them to it. Aberdeen
then said there was no question of any danger
to the Government, but there was of danger to Glad
"Istone himself. He added, with his characteristic
Idirectness :
                         don't care about the Government ;
care for Gladstone." He
against voting with Moore,         htaedllinsgtrohnimglythaadtvi"sehde  him
                                                                        was

only just escaping from the odium he had incurred

                                                4--2

52 THE ANTI-SLAVERY MOVEMENT [chap. xxix

about his peace speeches for Russia last year, and
that he was now        throwing                            for no
object." '                        himself            back                 good

Gladstone solved the problem in a characteristic
manner. He spoke for Moore, and then voted against
him,  pdeisrcfeocvtercinongsisategnrcoyun--dviozn.,  which he could   do  both
with                                                 the ground that  no  man

should move a vote of want of confidence unless he was
prepared to form a Government, even although his
argument was sound and deserving of the support of
others. How far this solution of the difficulty helped
him in that recovery of public confidence for which
Aberdeen was so anxious may well be doubted.
Palmerston and Clarendon had great trouble with
Russia about the final settlement of the new Bess-
arabian frontier at the mouth of the Danube, but they
succeeded at last.

IThere was, however, another subject which came
before us  aItt  this  time, and  in which           felt the         greatest
interest.        was   a subject  which the          French           Govern

ment had brought before the supplementary Congress
Iin Paris, and on which the greatest difficulty was felt

by all of us. refer to the condition of the subjects of
the King of Naples as the result of his gross and cruel
misgovernment. Austria was, or pretended to be,
much shocked by the very idea of international
interference with the purely internal affairs of any
Sovereign. On the other hand, the ground taken by
France and by us was that the misgovernment was
so gross as to be a perpetual danger to the peace
of Europe, and was the occasion of the insurrectionary
movements which were the main cause of the foreign
military occupations, which it was a most desirable
object to terminate. When this subject came before
Ithe Cabinet, Palmerston, as usual, showed a disposition

to send our fleet to the Bay of Naples. The ground
took was that we must either do more, or else do
nothing; sending a fleet alone would very probably
excite an insurrection ; then we could not honourably

1866]           GLADSTONE AND NAPLES            53

leave the insurgents to their fate, but must be prepared
to support and defend them. Even Palmerston felt
and acknowledged the difficulty, with the result that
nothing was done, beyond some diplomatic* remon
strances.

  It was in connection with this subject that Gladstone

had done himself great credit, if in a way which his
friend Aberdeen did not approve of. On a visit to
Naples he had seen and heard of the
brutality of the Government of Naples.          eItxcewpatsiontahle
only capital in Europe in which a stranger might find
himself one night dining with men of high education
and refinement, and might hear next morning that
       opnreisoonf sth--emchahiandedb,eenpecrohnaspisg,nedtotovtihlleaimnsostolfoatthhe
every
some

deepest dye. Some actual instances in the experience
of personal friends of his own set the heather in
his mind on fire. He found access to the most
authentic documents, and he fired off a letter to Lord
Aberdeen, which scattered over the whole of Europe
the breathings of a just and righteous indignation.
The days had now well begun when the public opinion

of the world, if concentrated, well founded, and
powerfully expressed, was destined to have an effect
such as it never had had before on the conduct and on
the fate of Governments. The appeals made to this
public opinion were no longer confined to a revolu
tionary press, or to the harangues of professional

demagogues. The new feature about it was that
appeals to the power of public opinion were made by
some of the Governments most decidedly representing
the principles of authority, and by individual statesmen
whose very names were identified with the most

Conservative opinions.
On the 28th April, 1856, the venerable Lord Lynd-
hurst was to have addressed the House on the state
of Italy, and although at the personal request of
Clarendon   he  consented to postpone
took care,  in  doing so, to denounce   his  '  speech, he
                                       the
                                                intolerable

54 THE ANTI-SLAVERY MOVEMENT [chap. xxix

misgovernment under which the people of Italy have
been so long suffering.' But where was this interfer
ence with the internal affairs of other States to stop ?
That was the question which Austria asked, and to
which   there was not,  and  could   --notthtahten
reply.    Only this     was   clear                  be, any definite
                                                    other cases of
suffering humanity might equally attract the sym
pathies of the world, and might, perhaps, be equally
assisted by the upgrowth of a great body of popular
opinion.

  I should not be giving a true picture of my life at this
Itime if did not confess that for some years my
thoughts and feelings had been drawn more and more
to the great contest in America between negro slavery
and abolitionism, which was becoming constantly more
Iand more bitter, and which was soon to break out in

one of the most terrible wars which history records.
must explain, however, the current of influences which
had carried me in this direction, and which gave me
for a long time an almost engrossing interest, as well
as some of the saddest and also some of the happiest
moments of my life.
My home in boyhood was not one in sympathy with
the abolition of negro slavery. My father's few com
mercial friends were generally more or less connected
with West Indian property, and my father had not
personally a favourable opinion of the negroes. One
of his most intimate friends was that Mr. Lewis who
was the author of a novel called ' The Monk,' from
which its author came to be generally known as ' Monk
Lewis.' He owned a West Indian estate, and he had
promised his negroes that at his death they should be
free. Not very long after this intimation, he died
rather suddenly, and my father always suspected that
he had been poisoned by his own slaves. Vague and
indefinite as my prepossessions were, arising out of such
stories and ideas, they were more or less strengthened
by my early prejudices against the Whigs and all their
works. The result was that, although not denying the

1856] 'uncle tom's cabin'                                      55

Iinjustice of slavery, was cold and indifferent on the
Isubject.  had, indeed, read the great speech of
IMr. Pitt, in support of his friend Wilberforce, and for

the abolition of the slave-trade ; but was disposed to
refine and distinguish between slavery and the slave-
trade, as involving different considerations, and to look
Iupon slavery as no worse than the old feudal or military

servitudes. Later in life found myself in contact with
a society which reflected the purest and noblest
elements that had given dignity and elevation to the
Whig party at its best, and among these elements was
an enlightened understanding, and a thorough destesta-
tion, of negro slavery.
Up to the year 1850 no event happened which brought
American slavery very prominently before me, but in
that year an event did happen which turned out to be
the beginning of the end. This was the passing of the
Fugitive Slave Law, which virtually turned every free
State into slave territory, and brought home to the
very doors of all the people of the free States the most
Itragic and horrible scenes of the slave-hunter's cursed
work.      do not recollect that in the busy and unsettled

state of home politics in those years, my attention was
specially drawn to the great change which this step on
Ithheapvaertnoofrtehceolslleacvteiopnarotfy  was   calculated to produce, and
                                             ever  having spoken or written

Ia line in public on the subject. As a member of the

Government after 1852, should not have thought it
judicious to do so, in view of the extreme sensitiveness
of the Government of the United States as regards
foreign interference.
Such was the state of matters, when suddenly there
burst upon the world a book, written by a woman,
which at once preyed on all hearts, and commanded
attention  in every country, and in
           was ' Uncle Tom's Cabin                 e' --veary   class and
rank. It                                                       picture of
negro slavery in the Southern States of the American
Union. Exhibiting the utmost grace and facility
of style and power of literary composition, in ex

56        VISIT OF MRS. STOWE  [CHAP. XXIX

pressing the most powerful emotions of the mind and
heart, that wonderful book had run through numerous
I Ihwweadaadinsttioeeodnnn.stlyirienhlIyetthaemrendagOdrooledfssamaetndedanbdNyseieseittwa. anWncedIot. rfwledae.Islt
              confess that
          exactly what was
          what before they
          was the occasion
Iof a compliment to me which greatly valued. When
Mrs. Stowe, the illustrious author of this wonderful
book, received the first copies to be sent to Europe,
she selected a few men in England, to each of whom
she sent a copy, with a short dedicatory note. One
was sent to Prince Albert, another to Lord Shaftesbury,
a third to Lord Carlisle, and the fourth was sent

to me.
    When the unparalleled circulation of the book in
England involved pecuniary transactions of correspond
ing magnitude, it became necessary for Mrs. Stowe to
Ivisit Europe, and she arrived in London in the spring
of 1853.  was invited by Lord Carlisle to meet her at
dinner soon after her arrival. The expectation so
common with us all, that extraordinary giftsof genius will
have a home in outward form of corresponding beauty
Ior of power, is an experience more often disappointed

than fulfilled. In my own long experience of life, have
never seen that expectation fully satisfied, except in the
solitary case of my dear friend the poet Tennyson.
IHis was indeed an ideal head and an ideal countenance,

expressing all he was. But never have encountered
such a contrast between a spirit and its shrine as in
the case of Mrs. Stowe. Here, in the one, was a voice
ringing through both the New and the Old World, with
a call so powerful that every ear was open and every
heart was moved ; and there, on the other side, was a
small and most inconspicuous woman, without a feature
Ito attract, still less to command attention.

     found that no one was more astonished than herself
by the effect which her tale had produced. That effect
was measured by nothing except the travail of her own
soul in conceiving incidents of the story, and in giving to

1866]                     MRS. BEECHER STOWE                                                                57

them that intense reality in which its power lay. But
dthimisinpishhy--sicoanl   and mental    contrast did not tend to
                          the contrary,  it all                      Itoloionkceredasaet--Mtrhse.
wonder and the reverence                 with                tended
                                                             which
I ISpthtuoerwnpoesk.en--owasawlwivhiainntghaeellrxatkhmneopwclehonsooefwni--ninstsphtiarruat mtiMoernns..tof a Divine
       herself for the                                                                                         did not
       conscious agent
                                                                                                          Stowe had
                                                             thtahnatheshr eowbne.camIet
felt                      time   so possessed
the                       of a
                                Power other
was no mere outburst of a tender woman's heart against
the wrongs and miseries of her sex under the conditions
of slavery, although this, of course, was an item in it.
But the aim of Mrs. Stowe' s book was far higher than
this.    Hitesrelmf. indItwwaassinofnlamfireed   for the honour                                             of Chris
tianity                                         to denounce the                                              terrible
complicity of the Churches, and to show how that com
plicity must stand in the light of the Divine morality
of the Gospel. To         bring   this home                   to the hearts of
men, to shake them        with   horror and                  with shame --this

                                                             filled her
                                                             resist.
Iwas the sublime endeavour which                                                                          scoounl,fefsrsomI

an impulse which she could not
Ilooked at Mrs. Stowe with a good deal of the feeling of

veneration and curiosity with which should have
regarded a prophet of the Jews or one of the Apostles
of our Lord. The contrast of her outward appearance
made the spiritual element all the more conspicuous.
IiaaAnnnwdhioeddmrerayaonwoafn--s tahshoaupmtmineaocwprhophueeosarferadsnmnecuseofcrferc--iapnttnhinoeaovnnte:rbf'oevretbyareym,ttaemabruolcgiuthittvleetanosbtlithothaoionnkf
naot wIin.c' am*nnyobt,eshtodwaeyvse, r,anadllolowokthinisg  like a used-up
                                                             comic frame to                                 article
                                                                                                            be left
without some filling up with a pen-and-ink sketch of
the features of this remarkable woman. Her head and
face as a whole were somewhat narrow and dark-com
plexioned. The forehead was not high. The eyes

         * 'Life of Mrs. B. Stowe,' pp. 197, 198.

58                 VISIT OF MRS. STOWE                 [chap. xxix

were rather small, with no open gaze, but with a very
merry twinkle when anything roused her abundant
humour. The        salient feature of her face         the nose,
which usurped       an undue predominance.      waIts  was not,
however, aggressive like an eagle's, but straight, like
that of a contemplative stork. Her mouth was
always a little puckered laterally, but became more so
when she smiled, especially when the idea presented to
                   full of fun.    Her voice was low , sweet,  and
hgeerntlwea--s  '  that most     excellent thing in woman.'    Her

manner was very quiet, almost demure, unassuming
to the last degree. Of course, this was a great charm,
in one with whose extraordinary powers the world was
at that moment literally surging.
    A few days after this quiet dinner, we met Mrs.
Stowe in a scene very different, where the con
trasts of her appearance and her position were still
more remarkable. A number of her leading admirers
in England, headed by Lord Shaftesbury and the
Duchess of Sutherland, had got up an address of
thanks to her from the women of England ; the presen
tation took place in the picture-gallery of Stafford
House. The Duchess had invited a goodly company
of all the most prominent men and women of London
who were sympathizers in the anti-slavery cause.
Such men as Milman, Whately, and Macaulay repre
sented the literary element, whilst Lord Palmerston and
Lord John Russell represented the old political school,
which had been always adverse to slavery. The
Duchess placed Mrs. Stowe on a rather high-backed
sofa, and brought up to her the various guests who
desired to be personally introduced. The tiny per
sonality of the great writer was almost lost in the gilded
and lofty surroundings of that beautiful room, whilst
the magnificent figure of the hostess looked like some
splendid bird of paradise mothering under her wings
a little black chick, which had somehow fallen to
her care. The address, read by Lord Shaftesbury, was
a tribute to genius, and to genius devoted to a holy

1856]            MRS. BEECHER STOWE                            59

cause. The scene was most striking, and the contrast
it presented between her unmitigated homeliness and
the high culture and position of those who were
crowding round her, could hardly have been imagined
in the  boldest  Ificfetilotnt.hat
   For  myself,                     day  more    trheaansoenvse--r tahsatotnIishheadd
by her powers, for the best              of all
just read another of her
                                    Cpraobdiunc.'tionIst,   a book called
' A Key to Uncle Tom's                                     was written to
                                    of untruth which
disprove  the accusations           the slave power.       had been
brought   against her by
                                                           It was a
masterly summary of the evidence on the strength of

which her story had been constructed, and it proved to
demonstration that her picture           Ihad been drawn   to  the
very life. Some portions of the                            to  the
                                         book had read
Duchess of Sutherland on the previous evening, and
she was much impressed and horrified by its revela
Itions.

      have told this story of the reception of Mrs. Stowe
at Stafford House a little out of perspective as to time,
with reference to the general narrative of this memoir.
But the reception of 1853 had a sequel which belongs
strictly to the later year of 1856, and in my memory
the reception and the sequel are inseparably blended.
Mrs. Stowe's first visit to England was a short one,
and she returned home to renew her gallant fight
against the slave power. This fight she maintained
with all her splendid literary power, whilst we were
soon engaged in our great fight with Russia, which,
with all my convictions of its necessity in the circum
stances in which we were placed, could never have
those sure elements of a wide beneficence for humanity
which were the glory of her campaign. We were glad
to hear that she contemplated a return to England
iIhnotmo1oe8ks5--m6,ethaaesnudrbeessbttoowthsaeyctuhinreewaDhvuicicshhiteasfsgroremoafthceShruaitnrhaeocturelrar ncodcaunnatnrbdye
understood and a great nature can be enjoyed. Mrs.
Stowe accepted our invitations cordially. Accordingly,

60                VISIT OF MRS. STOWE                      [chap. xxix

in September, 1856, we received at Inveraray Mrs. Stowe
and all her family who accompanied her to Europe,
namely, her husband, her sister, two daughters,
aWtonedfidnoidnde--nswoohtna.ftindiTshinecyaMllerrsde.maSatinobewrdeill--iawnaittnhdcuwosnevfweorersraefitvigoelnadadlainsytos.t;
but never did any woman appear more exactly what
she was as authoress. Gentle and serious and earnest
on all the grave subjects of her thought, there was
     a ripple of  humour    and of fun where  it was at
yet  admissible   with the
all                          subject. It was  impossible
not to observe in her books a close observation
of nature, and it was my special delight to see this
gift applied to new surroundings, such as she never could

Ihave seen before in her small New England homes.
soon saw how quick her eye was, and how well she
could describe the differences between the vegetation
of our old planted woods and that of the native woods
I Iof the North American continent. Nothing escaped

her, and felt that gained more knowledge from
Iher remarks during a short drive than from any books
  had ever read.
    Mrs. Stowe, like all educated Americans, took a
special interest in places connected with that literature
which has become theirs as much as ours, and especi
ally in all places  which                                   by the
immortal fictions   of Sir  WhaavleterbeSecnottt.ouchIetd  happens
Ithat one of
                                                      of these,
the novel of                                         scene laid
     t'hReobmoRsotys,'trhikaisnga  and picturesque
                                   good deal of its
at Inveraray, and was able to take Mrs. Stowe to a
spot which was a signal proof of the extraordinary
Itruth of Sir Walter's touches, even the most incidental,
in the picture he presented of the times.                  do not
know how Scott derived his information that there was
any local connection between the great freebooter and
the Argyll family, but it is well known at Inveraray
that Rob Roy lived for many years in a very secluded
nook among the mountains there, which has ever since

been pointed out as his cottage. It lies at the head

1850]           ROB ROY'S STRONGHOLD                       61

of a long and narrow glen, called Glen Shira, which has
several great peculiarities. Its floor is so low that the
greater part of it is only little above the level of the sea,
the consequence of which is that the river coming down
its bed is a gently-running stream, which is noiseless,
unlike most streams in the Highlands. The name
Glen Shira comes from this, meaning ' the valley of the
silent stream.' Another peculiarity of the glen is that
its walls are   hung with remains     of the ancient native
forest -- oak,  ash, and alder, with  thickets of birch and
hazel. About five miles up the glen, the foundation
rocks are exposed, and for the next two miles the river
has cut  its  way through  those rocks, which are of mica
slates.       makes this   cut through a succession of
         It
waterfalls, only separated by rapid pools and dashing

currents. At last, in following this river upwards, we
come to a place where it divides into two branches,
both the same in character, and filling the whole air
with the various tunes of falling and of rushing water.
These two branches completely isolate a steep and high
mountain, one of them trenching it on its eastern and
the other on its western base. And these trenches are
so deeply cut that no man could cross them in the face
of any opposition.
Behind these battlements of Nature, Rob Roy had
chosen to make his home, adding the artifice of conceal
ment to the advantage of a strong natural fortification ;
for his  cottage was built                 site invisible   from
almost   every direction.   Itupsotonoda  behind a high    knoll,

which could not be seen at all until those ascending
the glen were close upon it ; and when it became visible,
it gave no symptom of being near any human habita
tion. Yet hidden and sheltered behind this knoll was
the cottage of the famous rover. One of the deep-cut
torrents rushed behind it, and masses of natural wood
hung their tangled foliage down the western side of
the ravine. About the whole place there was an extra
ordinary sense of remoteness and of concealment and

Iof rest. Leading Mrs. Stowe round the knoll, could

62  VISIT OF MRS. STOWE                             [chap. XXIX

place her at the cottage door, which was very low.
The walls were built of loose stones, absolutely with
out mortar, like the stone walls usually called dikes in
Scotland. The roof was of sticks, covered with thatch.
The door was scarcely 6 feet high, which was the
height of the whole wall, and the windows were narrow
embrasures in the thickness of the wall. Mrs. Stowe
looked with much astonishment at this primitive form
wofhheunmIanexhpalbaiintaetdiont.o  But she was still more astonished
                                    her that it was a considerable
advance upon a still ruder kind of structure.

   At the beginning of the last century most of the
inhabitants of the Highlands lived in cabins made of
wattles, and plastered on the outside with clay or peat.
There were no internal divisions, and the whole floor
was occupied jointly by the family and the cattle.
Towards the middle of the century, they began to build
such cottages of stone as the one we had then before us,
and the interior was divided into two apartments by a
partition or screen of wattles, one side being occupied
by the family, the other by the cattle. This was the
stage at which domestic architecture of this class had
arrived in the days of Rob Roy, and at which it had
remained, in the case of this particular cottage, to the
date of Mrs. Stowe' s visit.
    There was, indeed, one inference from Rob Roy's
cottage which Mrs. Stowe must have been dis
posed to draw, and that was the curious accuracy
of Walter Scott in the reproaches which he makes
some of his characters throw against my ancestor,
John, Duke of Argyll and Greenwich, for afford
IintgwapsroimtepcotsiosinbleantdhatshRelotebr   to               outlaw.
                                               Roy  the famous   lived so
                                                    should have
long within about six miles of Inveraray Castle, without
the fact being known to that Duke, and for some reason
or another the famous Rob must have been allowed to
Iremain unmolested in his safe and picturesque retreat.

   felt under no need of solving this curious problem
for my American friend. As herself a great writer of

1866]  GLENSHIRA  63

fiction, she knew the incidental liberties consistent
with substantial truth, and she probably thought little
of the problem why men like Rob Roy were more than
tolerated 150 years ago. Her whole heart and soul
were at that time agonized by the thought, not of
cattle-stealers, but of man-stealers being openly pro
tected and encouraged by a civilized legislature and by
Christian Churches in her own country. She could
feel, therefore, nothing but amusement, and the sense
of a strange historical continuity, when she was brought
into the hut of Rob Roy, and in touch with the actual
surroundings of one of the most picturesque and

I Ibrilliant tales of the immortal Wizard of the North.

    When Mrs. Stowe and left the hut, took her back

Ito a place where the rest of our party were waiting for

us. This was a spot to which have been accustomed
to take those of our guests whose daily work is
hardest, and whose spirits, as well as bodies, give some
evident token of needing rest. There are some places
where the aspects of Nature seem to carry into the
tired heart and brain a sense of unspeakable refresh
ment. The long perspective of the narrow glen, opening
to the south and to the sea, with its hanging woods
and precipices ; the absence of any visible human
habitation ; the rocky ravines all round us, and the air
full of the sound of falling waters, each pool looking

as if it were held in a little basin of silver, from the
universal mica of the rocks --all these were elements in

 a very peculiar scene, which seemed to give Mrs. Stowe

Ia sense of tranquil enjoyment. To me her presence

haunts that scene still, and as often as have taken
there in later years some distinguished guest, it always
recalls to me the sunny afternoon in September,
 1856, when it attracted the steady gaze of that most
remarkable woman, at a time when she was in the
thick of her great fight, and could not as yet see the
speedy triumph of the blows she was raining down

Iupon the manacles of the slave.

       am not a Boswell. With the single exception of

64          VISIT OF MRS. STOWE  [chap. XXIX

Macaulay, whose stores of knowledge seemed inex
Ihaustible, and whose memory was almost miraculous,

   have never even had any very great enjoyment in

Iwhat is called brilliant conversation. Still less have
Iever tried to record it. have no memory of that kind,
Iand sometimes have wished that others were in this
Irespect as wanting as myself, for know few things
more wearisome than the faded flowers of vanished
conversations, when the petals are all dried and dusty,
Iand the very stalks have ceased to hold them together
in any true connection.     have a lively impression of
the curious mixture   oSftotwhee'sgrceoantvesresraiotiuosnne--ssthaendunitohne
great humour of Mrs.
of the strength of a masculine understanding with the
tenderness of a woman's heart, which is a character

istic of her books. It does so happen, however, that
she wrote a letter from Inveraray, giving an account of
her visit, which has since been published by her family,
and in that letter she gives an indication of some of
the subjects of our conversation at the time. Mrs.
Stowe had deeply at heart the honour of Christianity,
and she mourned over the failure of the Churches in
America to see and to uphold the cause of an everlasting
righteousness, when it was presented to their recogni
tion and committed to their care. But no one ever

saw more clearly the hollowness of conventional
theology and the shams of orthodoxy, which were often
the objects of her wit and the subjects of her humour.
IThere are many illustrations of these in her books,

and well recollect being immensely entertained by
    in her
    is the
ItheImt
            conversation.      know, as attaching to
            only disadvantage
warm and intimate friendships with cultivated Ameri
Icans, that in a great majority of cases they are severed

by distance before they can be lost by death. But
have enjoyed too many of these friendships not to be
grateful for their memory.
    We continued to hear of and from Mrs. Stowe for
many years, and rejoiced with her in the results of

1«57]         WAR WITH PERSIA                              65

that terrible Civil War, of which abolition was not
the confessed or ostensible aim, but of which, none the

less,  slavery was the real and efficient  cause.    from  a
       often seems strange to me that,
  It                                       although
I Ivery early age was keenly occupied with politics,
Iwas yet never so happy as when got away from them,
Iand even now in retrospect am never so bored as
Iwhen am compelled to return to them. The unspeak
able relief afforded by the close of the Crimean War, and
by the conclusion of a general peace, made all other
pending questions seem so comparatively unimportant,
I I Ithat for some time neither in the House nor in the
Cabinet did work as had worked.            was satisfied
that Palmerston and Clarendon would deal on the
whole well and wisely with such embarrassments as
remained. And this they did. Palmerston showed all
his strength in resisting Russia with respect to the treaty
securities for the Danube navigation. We settled the
Central American dispute. We renewed our friendly
relations with the United States, and, altogether, foreign
affairs looked more peaceful than they had done for
some time when we met Parliament in 1857.
We were now involved in a little war with Persia. A
violent personal quarrel had arisen between our
Minister there, Charles Murray, and the Shah, in which
we did not think that Murray showed much temper or
discretion. He broke off diplomatic relations with the
Persian Government, and the Shah proceeded to besiege
Herat. Palmerston sent an expedition to Bushire, at
the head of the Persian Gulf, and we took possession
of the island of Karah. The ground of objection to
these little wars was jealousy of the Executive Govern
ment being free to handle armies without the usual
recourse to Parliament. My feeling was that in an
Empire such as ours, especially in the East, the execu
tive power ought to have a strong weapon always in
hand, and ought not to be hampered with the Parlia
IImentary forms which are necessary in European
hostilities.  was glad, therefore, when saw the
vol. n.
                                                     5

66       DIFFICULTY WITH CHINA  [chap. xxix

assaults on Palmerston fail when they took this form,
and especially when the Lords refused to have anything
to do with them.
   The   stcolromu,d--hoowneevwerh, icwh arsosdeessttiinlledfarttohebruarwstayoutthaonf
another
Persia or even India. The Benthamite Radical, Sir
John Bowring, whom Palmerston had appointed to be
our Commissioner in China, had got into a quarrel
with the Chinese authorities at Canton about the
nationality of a local vessel of a class called lorcha.
He claimed one of these vessels as British, and denied
the right of the Chinese Government to treat her as
it did. When the Chinese refused to acknowledge her
British character, Bowring, after the manner of his
master, sent British ships and British guns, and blew
the Chinese forts out of the water. The malcontents
in the House of Commons were numerous and various,
and this was just such an occasion as was favourable
to a joint attack on their part upon Palmerston.
    In connection with this  comical incident
Ioccurred to me. In the preceding autumn, my wife

and had paid one of our usual visits to Dunrobin,
and had gone there by the route of the Caledonian
Canal. On the steamer upon the lake we met an
eHledewrlyasmwahna, twihsocaaltletrdacateddapapgeor oldittdleealmoafno--urveartyternotuionnd.
in his contours, like a partridge or a quail. He had a
round face with good features, and cheeks of the
roundness characteristic of all his figure. On the
removal of his hat, we saw that he was bald, with the
exception of a fringe of gray hair round his neck. His
head was a fine one, large and well domed, with ample
Iroom for brains. But what attracted our attention

most was his extraordinary mode of speaking. cannot
say there was any local brogue or accent. He spoke
very pure English, but with a deliberation and slowness
of articulation which was most peculiar. Each syllable

was separately pronounced, as if it were a separate word,
and with the utmost and apparently the most careful

1857]  THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL                                    67

precision, so that each letter made itself distinctly
heard. When we came to the Falls of Foyers, there was
but one carriage, and our new acquaintance and our
selves shared it to the falls and back to the steamer.
Nothing came out in his conversation that gave the
slightest indication of his business or occupation, and
       our curiosity                                     MCyockcnoenycl--usaionnd
yet    that he was    awLaosndcoonnseird--eraablpeu. re
was
that he was engaged in some City business.
At one of the early meetings of the Cabinet after the
opening of Parliament, Palmerston told us that he under
stood that the naval proceedings in the Canton River
were attracting more and more attention, and that an
attack upon the Government was being prepared by the
usual combination of malcontents. He added that it
was to be founded on an accusation of having violated
the principles of international law, and that the legal
members of the House were shaking their heads very

much about it. In case, therefore, of the Cabinet
desiring to hear their opinion, he had asked the
IAttorney-General to be within reach, and suggested
that he should be called in.  had never seen this
course taken before ; the opinion of the law officers
had always in my previous experience been given                in
writing, and circulated in a paper to the Cabinet.
                                                               It
would be more interesting, however, to hear that
opinion given verbally, and elucidated by question
and answer. We all, therefore, readily agreed.
Palmerston rang the bell for our attendant, and said :
' Will you tell the Attorney-General, who is in the next
                      be glad if he will be

                      happened that was
Iroom, thatweshall                                       good enough
       us.'                                              near the end
to come to     It
of the Cabinet table next the door of entrance, and,

Ibeing interested in the whole proceeding, had my
Ieyes fixed upon it. Suddenly it opened wide, and, to

my intense surprise, saw my dapper little friend of the
Falls of Foyers ushered into our Cabinet room, under the
title of Her Majesty's Attorney-General. He rolled,
rather than walked, into the room, with a slow and very
                                                         6--2

68     DIFFICULTY WITH CHINA               [ohap. XXIX

deliberate motion, which corresponded well with the
rotundities of his form, and with a slight poising and re-
poising of the head, which kept time with the motion
of the feet, not unlike that which marks the walking
gait of some kinds of bird. He sat down with the same
Ideliberation, and then looked round at us all with a

calm and intrepid, but, thought, a slightly irritable,
Igaze. Palmerston set him a-going by some appro

priate questions. Then heard again that most sin
gular  voice and enunciation  which had amused
much   in the Highlands, but  with this difference  --mtehasto
there it had been associated with nothing but the most
ordinary, trivial topics, which made its curious emphasis
seem comical and almost ridiculous. Here, on the
contrary, it was spent on a most careful
statement of the facts of a complicated    acnadse a--ccounrataen
equally careful definition of the principles applicable
to them, and on a clear indication of the conclusions to
which he thought they pointed. With all these matters,
the voice and the precise utterance accorded well. There
were occasional passages in his statement which seemed
to me to indicate a very strong feeling against the over-
Izealous civilian in China who had got us into a most

serious difficulty. Before closing what he had to say,
recollect that he shook his head ominously, and indi
cated his opinion that a very serious case against us on
the points of international law could be, and probably
would be, made out in the House of Commons. Before
he had spoken ten minutes, my attention    had been,    firsIt
thoroughly aroused, and then irresistibly   attracted.
felt at once that my little friend of the Falls of Foyers
was not only a very able, but a very powerful man.
Such were my first and second introductions to Richard
IBethell, afterwards my colleague as Lord Westbury,

Lord Chancellor of England, and whom soon learned
to estimate very highly for the rarest intellectual

powers.
   When the mellifluences of the Attorney-General's

voice and his precise syllabic utterances had come to

1857]           RELATIONS WITH CHINA                        69

an end, Palmerston thanked him for the assistance he
had given to us, and he rolled gently out of the room,
as he had rolled into it. We all thought it very evident
that, were it not for his office, it would give him
Iimmense pleasure to take the part of leading counsel

against us. But however struck may have been by
Ithe obvious great abilities of our new law officer of the

Crown, was not equally impressed by the relevance of
his argument. The whole of it was founded on the
assumption that our representative officers on the
Canton River were bound by the same highly complex
rules of so-called international law which govern the
relations of the civilized nations of the Christian world,
and that assumption appeared to me to be absurd. Our
relations with the Chinese at Canton were exclusively
commercial, largely determined by local habits and
usages, and liable to suffer the most serious injury
from the local functionaries of a barbarous Government,
Iwhose conduct was apt to be arbitrary and violent.

     did not care to ask whether the conduct of Sir John
Bowring had or   ahabdsolnuotet lybeneencessosamrey.whaItt  more high
handed than was                                             was enough
for me to see that the disavowal of our Commissioner,
when such serious action had been taken, would inflict
a severe blow on all our officers who might succeed him,
and throw into confusion the whole system on which

Iour commerce rested in that part of the world. was
convinced that  this  common-sense  view would be           tIakweans
by the country  and   by the House  of Commons.

therefore disposed, despite the ominous shakes of
Bethell's head, to disbelieve in there being any danger
in the assaults, of which notices had now been given
in both Houses of Parliament.
My prevision of the opinion of Parliament was fully
justified by the event, so far as the House of Lords was
concerned. The discussion came on upon Febru
ary 23rd, 1857, and we had against us some of the
Imost powerful speakers in the House, amongst whom
were Derby and Lyndhurst.      spoke on the second

70              DIFFICULTY WITH CHINA                         [CHAP. XXIX

night, in the sense indicated above, and on a division
we beat Lord Derby by the very considerable majority
of thirty-six.
    Next came the assault in the Commons, led by
Cobden. The debate lasted several days, and the result
was matter of varying conjecture from day to day. At
last, when the House divided,we found ourselves beaten
by a majority of sixteen. Palmerston called us to
gether, and explained the reasons which induced him
to think that we ought to dissolve that Parliament,
Iand appeal to the constituencies against its decision.

  was keenly in favour of that course, and was delighted
with the determination of Palmerston to take it.
There was no other political leader at that time in a
position to form a Government, on any intelligible
principle, and the vote had been determined by a
combination among all the scraps and debris of parties
which had resulted from many fractures, and which had
nothing in common except an unreasoning antipathy
to Palmerston. Everybody knew this as regarded the
Manchester school, represented by Bright and Cobden ;
Iand as regarded the old Peelite contingent, nobody
knew their animus better than myself.                         had seen
them in all the
my intercourse   wwitihndAinbgesrdeoef nthIeikrnceowurtshee,  and through
                                                              latest phases
of their antipathy to the chief under whom they had at
one time actually accepted office, along with me, and
had then renounced it for reasons which certainly had
no just connection with their new hostility. Never,

Ias it seemed to me, was a ' penal dissolution ' more

thoroughly deserved, and was quite excited by the
confident expectation that Palmerston would be sup

ported by the country.
  IOn leaving the Cabinet, where the matter was

formally settled, saw two friends of very different
calibre, and was much interested by the several ways in
Iwhich they took the decision. The first was Cardwell, a

personal friend of my own, for whom had a great regard.
He came up to me in the club, having heard the universal

1857]                 LORD MACAULAY               71

rumour, and his face was almost as full of alarm as it
had been when he heard of Gladstone's great Budget
                                                  to me were :
                                                  that meant
                                                  : ' You have
Ip' rYoopuoshaalsveofn1o8t5g3i.venThues

could not conceive, and
                              only words he said
                              a chance.' What

                               could only reply
Ileft us no other course to pursue.'
--TMhaecasuelcaoyn.d  friend   met was a very different man
                       Very   recently he had changed his
residence,             Iwas now our neighbour     in Kensing
             and                                   him giving
ton. At     one       of his breakfasts, heard

not a good account of his health, and saying he
doubted whether the air of the Albany in Piccadilly
was altogether good for him. On my reporting
this to my wife, it occurred to her that a charming
villa next door to us on Campden Hill would be just
such a residence as would suit Macaulay. She wrote
to him to this effect, and telling him how we should
rejoice in having him as our nearest neighbour. He
acted on her suggestion, bought the villa, and spent
there the remainder of his life. In passing his door
I Ion the day of which am now speaking,
                                                  stopped
Ito speak to him and tell him the news. do not mean
to quote Macaulay as giving his opinion on the details
of Bowring's conduct towards the Chinese, but on the
Ibroad question between us and the House of Commons.

  was glad to find him heartily with us, and wishing us
all success. Macaulay had by this time become much
more of a literary man than of a politician. Still, he
inherited all the very best traditions of the Whig party,
and would not sympathize with any great departure
from them.

  It was satisfactory to remember that the quarrel of
the House of Commons with us was strictly confined
to the trumpery affair between Bowring and the
Chinese of Canton. On all other subjects we had been
supported by that same House, and especially on one
of cardinal importance. As before mentioned, the
Exchequer had been placed by Palmerston in the hands
of Sir George Lewis. No two men could be more

72  DIFFICULTY WITH CHINA  [chap. xxix

different than Lewis and Gladstone. Lewis was calm,
philosophical, and destitute of passion. He had been
more of a literary man than of a politician. But his
knowledge was almost equal to Macaulay's, and in
discussion, the sense he gave one of perfect truthfulness
and accuracy in every statement was singularly agree
able and persuasive. So long as the Crimean War
lasted, George Lewis had an easy time of it. Men will
put up with any amount of taxation under the excite
ment of a great war. But now that the war had ended,
and peace had been concluded, it was certain that the
war taxes would have to be abated. Strange to say,
this did not at once strike those members of the Cabinet
who were at the head of the army and the navy. They
always hate reductions ; but it was surely a signal case
of blindness that they had actually prepared estimates
so enormous that the whole war expenditure would
have been maintained, and no alleviation of the public
burdens would have been possible.

   In February, George Lewis informed us in the Cabinet

that the two War Departments had produced estimates
amounting together to about twenty-four millions,
and with his calm, grave face explained that this
would render it impossible for him even to diminish
the income-tax at all, far less to allow it to fall, as the
public expected it to do. Both Panmure and Wood
defended their estimates, to which Lewis rejoined by
telling us that he must then keep up the income-tax to
sixteen pence in the pound, and stop all reductions on
tea. He added with gravity and calmness that he was
certain that neither the House nor the country would
agree to this. An agitation had been already started
for the repeal of the income-tax, and he was certain
that most of the members for popular constituencies
would come up pledged against such propositions. We
agreed, therefore, to send the two extravagant Ministers
back to their shops, with a general instruction to reduce
the army and navy to twenty millions, as near as pos
sible. On the 27th they came back with a reduction

1857]            THE BUDGET                                                         73

to twenty-one millions. Lewis then said that with this
rwehdiucchtiowne,reamndosgtivdinesgiruabplere, mhiesscioonusldojuf sintd'irpeucltl  taxation,
                                                                                    through,'
abating the income-tax to one-half of its then amount,
or eightpence in the pound. We all knew that the
federated factions would not be content with this.
They had already indicated that they would take ad
vantage of the unpopularity of the income-tax to
make an assault on retaining it at all, whilst we knew
that Gladstone would do the same, resting on the
prowess of his famous Budget of 1853.
   We were not mistaken. When George Lewis brought
on his Budget on the 13th of February, 1857, it was,
on the whole, well received by the House. Nobody
seemed to care about anything except the abandonment
of the war augmentation of ninepence. Gladstone
Ikept his counsel, waiting for whatever action Disraeli

might take. But heard that he was going about town
abusing the Budget vehemently. At last, on the 21st,
the debate came on, upon an abstract resolution by
Disraeli, when Gladstone made a very long and furi
ously excited speech, in which he fiercely attacked
        who was  a personal friend   and a correspondent.
Lewis,  thought  very overstrained,    and unfair in argu

It was
ment in the highest degree. Lewis himself, one of the
most passionless and amiable of men, spoke of it as so
personally bitter that he was quite amazed. Wood
told me that Gladstone seemed in the highest excite

ment.                 2th4ethl,arDgiesrmaealij'osrimtyootifoenigohntyth--e
  IOn the morning of
                 the
Budget was negativedby
unexpectedly large. But find that in my journal at
the time this formidable result is ascribed to our having
had the benefit of a junction between the haters of
IGladstone and the haters of Disraeli. Whether this

was the cause or not, felt it to be impossible to have
much respect for a House of Commons whose votes were
so inconsistent and uncertain, one day giving us a
sweeping majority on a vote which determined the

74  THE GENERAL ELECTION                     [chap. xxix

largest issues of our policy, and a few days afterwards
condemning us on an accidental squabble with the

Chinese on the river Canton. I, who had listened to
Bethell's argument in our own Cabinet and to Lynd-
hurst's speech in the Lords, knew very well that a good
case could be made out against Bowring on the tech
nical grounds of international law, but common-sense
condemned a vote which must carry such consequences,
on grounds so trivial.
   We had not long to wait before we saw how the wind

owmtahesercrbisal--ol wscieennngttreiunsp--trheLesoocnloudntoisontni,tsuMeinancniocehsu.ersftaevAr,olul rLt.hiveerAgprnoedoatl,wchoaemnnd.
the election came on, our foes were scattered like chaff
before the wind, and the peace party and the Man
chester party were wiped out of the House of Commons.
IBright and Cobden and Milner Gibson all lost their seats.

So did Cardwell at Oxford. The look of alarm had
seen on his face in the club was more than justified.

Since Lord Grey's Reform Bill there had been no such
triumph for any Minister as the national vote for
Palmerston in April, 1857.
    Some incidents in the course of the General Election
were of special interest. One was the contest for
the City of London, one of the seats for which had
been long held by Lord John Russell. No part of
the kingdom was more Palmerstonian than London
at this juncture. Lord John's political conduct had
rendered him unpopular, and he was told by all his
friends in the City that he had no chance whatever of
re-election in the penal dissolution, and it was useless
to try. This was impressed upon him so universally,
by those who knew the constituency best, and who had
worked for him in it, that he had made up his mind
to accept their advice. But quite suddenly, at the
last moment, he changed his resolution, and, without
consulting anyone, published an address to the con
stituency, and determined   to speak on the
   This he did, beginning   with parable.    Ihtushtainpgpse.ned

1857]                   LORD JOHN RUSSELL                     76

that that generation of the Russell family had a peculi
arity of pronunciation as regarded the word John.
The Duke of Bedford, who was much attached to his
                             him ' Jahn,' and Lord John
brother,   always called      ' Jahn ' when he used the
himself
           pronounced it
name. On this occasion his parable turned upon the
plea that an old servant ought not to be dismissed
without giving him an opportunity of explanation and

defence. In presenting this view, it was his plan to
refer to the constituency as his master, and to put into
their mouth some familiar words to the old servant,
Iasking for        e' xplsaanya,tioJanhnb,e'forweertehetyhecoouplednitnhginkwoordf sa.

dismissal.
The moment they were uttered, with his peculiar voice
and accent, they were received with a storm of laughter,
which ended in a storm of cheering. By sheer pluck
and courage, together with a happy appeal to a
generous feeling, he had already won his election, and
when it oame, Lord John Russell was at the head of
the poll. This was a specimen of the great qualities
of courage which were inherent in the man.
A very different kind of courage was exhibited by
Gladstone during this same General Election. He
entered upon one of those campaigns of speaking to
the electors with which we all became familiar in later
Iyears, and which Disraeli cleverly called ' pilgrimages of
passion.'          rather think they were novel in our Parlia
mentary habits. Prominent men, of course, have always
Imade speeches to their own constituents, or elsewhere ;

but rather think that Gladstone initiated the practice
of setting out on a campaign of oratory, all over the
IcItousntrtruyc,k  for  the  purpose of                  its  decision.
                         as  very strange,  influencing  5th
                    me                      and on the        of April
amcotfatiLntkaiidvngegemr--pyasoeeosvllpfeeriwyetwcrwihhtaienisrngeaetnowvaehAvreyborewertedohdeweencnha--an:dve'avrGseoslroaymdfosvtrtoilolnDaeegsterabhn--yads.'e, bvaeeneIrfydn,
even in the House of Commons, in the ^presence of his
opponent, Gladstone was so excited as to accuse one of

76    THE GENERAL ELECTION                                        [chap. xxix

GtheeormgeostLeawccisu--ratoef  and truthful men         in England --Sir
                                manipulating his          Budget figures
enormously for the purposes of his argument, what
chance could there be of such a man as Gladstone

being just or temperate when he was raging about the
country, addressing mobs entirely ignorant of the sub
ject  ? Fortunately, at         --thPaat lmmeormsteonnt  --thwehopmubltihce  mind
was   fixed on one man                                                        vast

majority was determined to support.
    There was rather a curious, but also a significant,
scene at one of the Cabinets,    which  sIatt            before   the dis
solution had actually taken     place.                   will be  remem
bered that when the Aberdeen Cabinet was formed, it
was understood that it would entertain and deal with
the subject of Parliamentary Reform, but not during
the first year of its work, 1853. But the next year the
Crimean War came also, whereupon Lord John Russell,
after a struggle and with tears, was obliged to admit
the necessity of delay. Palmerston then, working on
the Cabinet's unusual pressure with the Budget, con
tinued to get it postponed sine die. But now that the
war was ended and peace secured there was a general

expectation that the subject must be dealt with. A
good number of the Cabinet sat for popular constitu-
ences, and were naturally anxious to know what
Palmerston intended. They felt that the name of
Palmerston, and the Crimean War, might do very well
for the passing moment, but would not do to live upon
for the whole duration of a Government. Some of
them, therefore, asked Palmerston what he intended
to say in his address to his own constituents, that they
might take their cue from him. Did he intend to
mention reform ? and if so, what did he mean to
say about it ? Palmerston did not seem very willing
to be pressed by this inquiry. Some of my colleagues
urged that the total omission of the subject would lead
to inferences and embarrassment. Palmerston said he
was unwilling to use ambiguous words, which would
be capable of opposite interpretations. The dissatis

1857]      PALMERSTON AND REFORM                  77

fied members then repaired to Lord Lansdowne, the
Father of the Cabinet, always calm, wise, and abso
lutely straight. They begged him to impress on
Palmerston the extreme inconvenience of giving no
sound whatever on the subject of reform at a General
Election. The result was that Palmerston did intro
duce into his address the word ' reform.' But he used it
in a context which seemed to apply it rather to ad
ministrative improvements than to any reform of
Parliament. The truth, however, was that it mattered
little what Palmerston might say at that moment,
because the people were determined to have him at his
own price, whatever that might be. There are such
moments probably in the history of every people, when
some one man engrosses all their attention, and they
care for nothing except that he should be in power.
Such was Palmerston's position at this juncture.
There was, however, one other question with which
we were compelled to deal in those Cabinets which were
held just before the dissolution, and on which our
decision and our action were fortunate beyond all that
we could   thaewnareconthteamt,plaatlethoourghcohneceisvuep. porPteadlmeSrisrtoJn.
was quite
Bowring in his quarrel with the Chinese, we could not
safely continue that official in the same position. He
had therefore told the House of Commons that we
should send out some new man as Plenipotentiary, to
communicate with the Chinese Government on the

sources of disagreement. Palmerston now brought this
Isubject before us.

     have already had occasion to speak of Palmerston's
great loyalty to his colleagues in such matters. Even
in the selection of new Cabinet Ministers he used always
to consult them. Prime Ministers generally take these
arrangements very much into their own hands, com
municating only with some special department. But
Palmerston on this, as on other occasions, told us the
whole story, and that three names occurred to him,
each having some different but peculiar qualifications.

78          THE GENERAL ELECTION                 [chap. xxix

First, there was Sir Bartle Frere, one of the most dis
tinguished of the corps of administrators who had
qualified in the great school of our Indian Empire.
Second, there was our old colleague the Duke of
Newcastle, the ban against whom had now died out,
and whom we all felt had been ill-used. Lastly, there
was Lord Elgin, one of those younger members of the
peerage who, after a distinguished Oxford career, gave
much promise of ability in political life. We discussed
them all carefully, and we decided on the Duke of New
castle. But he declined. We then took Elgin, who
accepted, and we determined that he should be sent
to China, not with ships only, but with a force of
4,000 men.
    These were the men who, a few weeks later, in passing
by the gates of India, heard suddenly of the terrible
mutiny of the native army of Bengal, and by the public
spirit of Lord Elgin were at once deflected from their
Chinese destination, and sent to help Lord Canning in
his desperate struggle for the salvation of the Indian
Empire. Without a thought of the calamity which
was impending, and without a notion of the value
attaching to our action in sending troops which would
be within hail of India, we all scattered over the
kingdom, watching or taking part in the elections.
    IAs usual, my wife and went down to our home on
Ithe Clyde, and thence sent a letter to Palmerston on
Ithe subject of Reform.  deprecated any attempt to
Ideal with it in the first session of the new Parliament ;

but, on the other hand, urged him to announce it for
next session, and that it should be a substantial
measure, as the only means of making it a safe one.
This was exactly the course which he actually pursued.
IOn the debate on the Address, he was even more

distinct than at all expected him to be in pledging
his Government to Reform, although details were
carefully withheld. But all opposition was cowed by
our                                                                 of
our  success at the  pRoolelsb, uacnkd--ewvaesn  the most waspish
                                                 obliged to accept  as
     enemies -- Mr.

1857]      PROPOSED LAW OF DIVORCE                 79

satisfactory the vague intimations of the triumphant
Minister.
Palmerston at this moment was eager on the subject
of a new law of divorce. The Episcopate was divided,
but the High Church party     hated it
Gladstone in particular was  a violent  Ibeyond measure.
                                        opponent.  was

in favour of Palmerston' s measure, and spoke several
times in its support.

         CHAPTER XXX

                           1857

INDIAN   MUTINY -- SIR COLIN CAMPBELL --   LORD               DAL-
               HOUSIE --COMMERCIAL CRISIS

All was going smoothly for Palmerston in Parlia
ment, and there were no manifest rocks ahead, when
suddenly, as a clap of thunder out of the blue, came,
one fine morning in June, the news of the mutiny of
Bengal regiments at Meerut, of the massacre of the
officers, and of the escape of the mutinous throng
Iup the Ganges to Delhi.
   Well  do remember the    Itmowransingouorncuwshtoicmh  we  read
of this  disastrous event.                                at  that
time to breakfast at an open window, a little above the
level of the flowers of a  very  pretty   parterred garden.
                           how   sick we  felt with anxiety,
It still comes back to me
how alarming the prospect appeared, and how all our
flowers had lost their glory. From that moment my
attention was wholly engaged by the Mutiny and its

conItseqisueonfcecso.urse the custom in all Governments that

when any department is filled by a Minister in the
House of Commons, some substitute or represen
tative is supplied in the House of Lords, who answers
for the Government on the subject of that department.
Sometimes this substitute in one House for a chief that
is in another had the formal position of an Under-
Secretary of State. But where there is none such, some
other member of the Government takes up the duty.
Ever since the Aberdeen Government had been formed,
it had fallen to my lot to answer for the Indian Depart-

                           so

1857] OUTBREAK OF THE MUTINY                                     81

ment. Partly, perhaps, owing to my connection with
Dalhousie, and partly to my personal knowledge of the

Isubject, this duty had been chiefly left in my hands,
tToahfnhefdiemciamlthheoptahradoopudeggrisvhbelyynasawmnhtdyhiceihnmy itnIhredepairrctohooceerdidetedrieon.duraIwthsapaissencdetisoaa--lsyrmetotaaodnrrneetehaarded.

what are called Blue-books with little benefit. Ex
tracts are given by the press, and quotations in many

speeches ; but what is wanted, if we desire to know the

truth, is to follow events in the true order in which they
occur, for on this very often the whole interpretation

depends.
   Some mutinous symptoms had appeared at Barrack-
pore soon after Lord Canning had reached India in
February, 1857. But, though serious, they were not
alarming. Ellenborough had raised a debate on them
on the 9th of June, and had given some currency to
an injurious report that Canning was disposed to
interfere with the religion of the natives of India.
Granville and Lansdowne gave a prompt denial
to this ridiculous report. But when the great crash
of the Mutiny came, and all the world realized
its formidable proportions, every fool who had ever
objected to anything in the policy or acts of the

IGovernment of India was shouting in some form or

another, ' Didn't tell you ?'
One result of my close reading of all the facts
was an early and firm conviction that we had to
deal, not with a popular insurrection, but with a
military mutiny, and with that                                myBumt intdhe--re
was another conviction forced                         alone.
                                                     upon
namely, this: that the Mutiny was due to a genuine
religious panic, communicating itself from mind to
mind    unIdtewr athsenuont cinonittrsololaribglien  impulses of superstitious
fears.                                               any political conspiracy,
although, of course, it set up conspiracies without
number, racial, political, and religious. But many of
the phenomena were not only curious, but mysterious.
vol. n.
                                                              6

82                          THE INDIAN MUTINY       [chap. xxx

Regiments, after having stood firm for weeks, suddenly
joined the mutineers, just at a moment when their
success was impossible, and when they were sure to be
disarmed or shot. There was no reason in their action,
no opportuneness in their conduct. They seemed to
go suddenly mad, like shying horses or stampeded
         The savage slaughter of      the officers   came   at
mules.   of years of sympathy and     affection.            as
the end                                             It was
if some evil spirit were let loose, which, at the most
unexpected moments, lighted upon and took possession
of the Sepoy corps, converting them into demons of
treachery and destruction. And yet, in the middle of
this raging storm in the spirits of men, there were
abundant examples of the most splendid fidelity and

courage.               all  Ithese facts, as did in the minutest
                       the
deFtaoilll,owI sinagw       folly and the danger of the furious cry
for vengeance which arose in England, and of the reckless
     cast on Lord                                 in the name
    to him in the                                 Canning.'
Iblame

given
                            Canning,   embodied
                            press of  ' Clemency
saw that whilst punishment of mutineers ought to be
Iswift, if possible, it ought above all things to be dis
criminate.             therefore took an active part in defending
ICanning against the attacks made upon him in the

House of Lords, and was gratified, at a later date, by
hearing from Canning himself that he had been struck
Iby the accurate knowledge of the detailed facts of the

case had shown in my replies.
    IOn the ; 27th of July, in reply to a speech from
Lord Ellenborough,          took occasion to expose the
opposite directions from which censure had been
cast upon our Indian Government, and to point

out how dangerous it would be to come to any
hasty conclusion on the real causes of the Mutiny,
Ior as to any changes of policy which would be

desirable. A few days later was able to contradict
Lord Ellenborough, when he attributed to Canning
procrastination in dealing with the first symptoms of
suspicion and alarm among the native troops. But

1867]         SIR COLIN CAMPBELL                                        83

all these  dsetrtuagilsglews e--reonseoofnorfotrhgeottreencapinturtehe   two tre
mendous                                                                 of Delhi,
the other for the relief of Lucknow. The only comfort
we had, during the dreadful months when those
struggles were going on, lay in the magnificent courage,
energy, and resource displayed throughout India, not
merely by the great soldiers whose names are for ever
memorable, but by individual officers and civilians,
who were taken by surprise in small stations all over
                                contrived  to defeat the
the country,  and who    often             cheered us all
mutineers or  to escape  from   them. It
beyond expression to see that the virtues of a governing
race had not departed from us, and that under the most
adverse conditions, our men and women showed in
domitable courage and resource.
At Delhi there was no garrison to be relieved, no
valuable lives to be rescued. On the other hand, we
knew that invaluable lives would be lost in the siege
and capture. But our dominion and Empire depended
on it, and we cheered our gallant countrymen when, in
the fiercest heats of an Indian summer, they undertook
the recovery of the capital of the Moguls. With
Lucknow it was different. There we had a gallant
garrison, with women and children,      tdoeartehs.cueItfrwoams
bloodthirsty villains and from a cruel
evident that the work of rescue would be most difficult.
We had plenty of heroic men, such as Havelock and
Sir Henry Lawrence and Outram. But we had no one
man to co-ordinate our separate forces, and to combine
all their efforts to supreme results.
To my intense relief, Palmerston and the Cabinet
determined to send out Sir Colin Campbell, as Com
Imander-in-Chief over the army of India.                                went to
Ihim directly, and, finding him at home in a small house

in Knightsbridge, told him of his appointment, and
asked him how soon he      w' Toou-lmd obrerowreaadfytertnooogno.'.     His
reply was instantaneous :                                               He
left England on the 12th of July, and on the 22nd of
November every one of the threatened victims of

                                           6--2

84    THE INDIAN MUTINY                   [chap. xxx

massacre in Lucknow had been redeemed from a
Idreadful death, and had been restored to safety.
       did not at that time know anything about Sir
Colin' s origin or his history, although his name indi

cated that he came from my own country. All this
Iknowledge came to me in a curious and very accidental
way.  was on one of my visits with my wife to my
estates in Mull, and one day we were in a boat with the
factor, who was a Campbell and a native of Islay. As
I Iwe were passing a slated house near the shore, which
   had not seen before, asked who lived there. The
reply was : ' An old man whose name is Macliver, who

Iis the father of Sir Colin Campbell.' ' The father of Sir

Colin Campbell !' repeated in great surprise. ' Do
you mean the General ?' He said he did, and explained
that Sir Colin' s real name was Macliver, but that his

mother was a Campbell, and an uncle had adopted the
boy at an early age, had educated him, and had
bought for him a commission in the army.
    We landed, and went up to see the old man. We
found him above eighty years of age, but very erect
and tall, with the dignified and courteous manners of
the genuine Highlander. The most remarkable feature
about him was a very large and rather globular head,

Iwith gray curly hair matted round his forehead.
Ileft the old man's house feeling that now knew Sir
I IColin as had never known him before, and that had
a kind of personal interest in his fame. Sir Colin
was extremely like his father. He was of shorter
stature, but the head was of the same character, and
also the curly grey hair, giving a general aspect not
unlike a West Highland bull. Lines of power coursed
across his brow, and ridged it up into a deeply corru
gated surface. With a gentle manner, there was a
fiery expression lurking in his eyes, whilst his whole
aspect and demeanour were soldierly in character.
He had a square and massive figure, giving one the
impression of a man capable of great physical endur
ance. The whole^aspect of the man inspired confidence.

1857]                   CLANSHIP IN SCOTLAND           85

He seemed the very type of a soldier, by profession, and
byIttheis                and   education of  a life of service.
           experience      in  my opinion,   to exaggerate the
            impossible,
combination of high qualities which Sir Colin exhibited
Iin this dangerous labour of duty and of love.         am

never tired to this day of reading the detailed account,
and wondering at the precision, the foresight, the
sagacity, the resource, the determination, and the
moral as well as        physical  courage involved     indethtaeilso.peraIt
tion as a whole,         and in   all its complicated
was a splendid piece of work, and for a prize of unspeak
able   value.
       is now  somewhere       about  a hundred and    fifty years
  It   the Supreme Court of       nLoawlonignerScaontlyanedxisdteecnlcaere--d
since  clans in Scotland had
that
that nothing could belong to, or be due to, any man as
member of a clan. And all that is true. But, though
dead as an institution, clanship survives as a senti

Iment ; and confess it made me proud and happy when
I found that a clansman of my own, born and bred in
Ione of those western isles loved so well, was standing
out before the world, not merely as the rescuer of
valuable lives, but as the subduer of a fierce enemy
Iand the saviour of India. When he came home as a

Peer of the Realm had the honour of being one of the
two    wmifeemabnedrsI  who introduced him   to the House, and
my                      made as intimate a  friend of him as his
retired habits would allow. On one occasion, when a

Ivacancy was about to occur in the county seat,
offered to exert all my influence to secure his election,
feeling quite sure that the county would have been
proud to have him as member. But, though pleased
and surprised, he declined absolutely, telling me that
he had never been anything but a soldier, and had no
Iinterest in ordinary politics.

   In September, 1857, was, as usual, for some weeks
Minister in Attendance on the Queen at Balmoral.
One day, when no members of the Royal Family were

Ipresent except the Prince Consort, it happened that

86            THE INDIAN MUTINY                     [chap. XXX

was sitting at dinner next the Queen. On Her
Majesty's other side was Lord Chelmsford, who had
come accidentally to Braemar with his wife, and had

been asked to dinner. A daughter of Lord and Lady
Chelmsford was the wife of an officer stationed at Luck-
now when the Mutiny broke out, and with her husband
formed part of the beleaguered garrison. Of course,
the Chelmsfords were both in a state of the most
anxious suspense, as to the progress of the relieving

columns. In the middle of dinner a servant came
behind the Queen's chair, and passed one of the well-
known red boxes into Her Majesty's hand. The
Queen at once slipped it under the tablecloth, so as to
be able to open it out of sight of Lord Chelmsford. He,
Ihowever, was a man of very alert perceptions, and,

although he gave no sign of having seen anything,
saw the strain under which he kept his countenance
unmoved. The Queen read the telegram underneath
the tablecloth, and then in a gentle voice of sympathy
said to Lord Chelmsford : ' Not relieved             In his
excitement he did not catch the word      '  yet.'
repeated in a suppressed voice of great      yet,'  and he

                                             alarm  : ' Not

relieved ?'   The Queen then laid special    stress on  the
word ' yet,'   and so mitigated as far as     possible  the

paIintfuwlasandxuieritnygotfhhisersgtauyesat.t Balmoral that I heard of
Palmerston's resolution to bring in a Bill for the
abolition of the East India Company, and the assump
tion by the Crown of the government of India. He

Ihad not mentioned it in the Cabinet before left
Itown, and in conversation with myself had never
Iheard him allude to it. do not think he cared much
about   it. But           hime pwreasssiojuns--t tvheerymiagnnotroantta,kebuut pvethrey
broad,   spporpeuadla--r  that somehow or other the mutiny of
widely
Ithe Sepoys was the result of the rule of the Company.

Although was disgusted with the senseless abuse
heaped by the Press upon the Government of India, and
especially upon the great man who had just left the

1857J   ATTACK ON LORD DALHOUSIE       87

Iscene of his labours, did not entertain any objections
'I Ito the change in form which Palmerston was going to
propose. On reaching London, wrote in my political         *>
                                                           

journal as follows :  have no belief that this "change
Iwirl render the administration much more successful

than it has been ; but think it necessary and desirable,
in order to remove the very gross delusion which prevails
at present in this country as to the real nature of the
Indian Government. There is no driving it out of
people's heads that the Company is not still a com
mercial body, or that the Crown does not really possess
already very complete control over the measures of the
administration. The result, therefore, is that people
are continually running on false scents, attributing
every evil to causes which have no connection with the
subject. Moreover, the Government at home is tempted
Inot to defend the Indian Government asit"

have frequently been warned in the House,
                                       ought.
                                       Oh, don't

commit yourself too much in defence of the Company,"
and this, not because any real fault could be found with
the action of the Government of India, but because
the directors and the Company are so unpopular that

it is considered best to keep, as it were, in a separate
boat.'
What troubled me most was the chorus of attacks
which were now directed against Lord Dalhousie.
He had done too many great things with a high hand
and a strong arm not to have offended and irritated
many people. His resolute character, too, had found
expression in minutes and despatches of brilliant
ability, but which were not conciliatory to his oppo
nents. Now that he was down, and an overwhelming
calamity had suddenly affected a great part of the native
army, all his enemies rushed upon him with their
weapons. As became the dignity of the great office he
had so long held with splendid results, he maintained
a rigid silence. He knew that ignorant clamours would
find their level. He had held that office, at the request
of the Government, longer than his broken health could

88    THE INDIAN MUTINY             [chap. XXX

bear. He had sent his wife home in anticipation of his
return. But she had died on the way, on shipboard,
almost in sight of England. The blow broke him com

Ipletely down. In the autumn after my return from

Balmoral, heard that he had taken rooms in the hotel
at Arrochar, at the head of Loch Long, about twenty

miles from Inveraray. Finding it impossible to hope

Ifor a visitjfrom him, drove over to see him.
I» foundjiim sadly changed from the happy day when
I sat beside him at the great meeting in Edinburgh,
whenjall political parties had united to rejoice over
his appointment. He was then a spare man, with very
fair hair and fairer skin. He was now very stout,
and he seemed unable to rise from his chair. There

only remained unchanged his large, splendid eyes,
and his thin, compressed lips, giving one the idea of
unbending resolution. An air of sadness and depres
I I Ision was only too apparent.
                                    was, confess, much
vexed to see so great a force so nearly spent. But
Idid what could to be cheerful with him, and, thinking
Ithe employment might be useful to him, spoke of
his answering in some form some of the attacks then
being made upon him. His reply was prompt : ' My
Idear Argyll, never will say one word in my own
Idefence until can say it in the House of Lords.'
IAlas ! knew and saw only too clearly what that must
Imean, and formed the determination to do for him
Ias best could what he never would be well enough to
Ido for himself.  left him with a heavy heart, and was
glad to refresh my spirit by that contact with external
nature which is an ever-living fountain for the weary
and   thleays--adG. lenTchroeemoanudntaGinlenpasKseyslet--hroarueghamwohnicgh  my
road                                                                           the

most beautiful in the West Highlands. They had been
familiar to me from childhood, with streams and rocks
and lakes and restful arms of the sea, and they made
me feel how little Nature takes heed of the infirmities
of men, and with what composure we must accept them,
whether in others or in ourselves.

1857]  FINANCIAL CRISIS  89

  I could not but remember the shouts of gratulation

with which Lord Dalhousie was speeded on his way to
take up that great office, the brilliancy of his administra
tive achievements, his uncontested supremacy above all
the ablest men in India, the widened boundaries of our
marvellous Empire ; and now, on the other side of the
picture, his return in ruined health to a desolate home,
made the target of every ignorant opponent whom he
had brushed aside in India, and whom he could have
brushed aside in England, if only he could but stand

Iand speak. All this passed through my mind as left

the inn at Arrochar with a sadness which was really

inexpressible.

  ILord Dalhousie lived till 1860, and after his death

had the satisfaction of writing and publishing in the
Edinburgh Review an account of his splendid years of
public service in the greatest office under the British
Crown, at a momentous epoch in the history of our
Eastern Empire.

   Cabinet office has one advantage in public life : that
it brings one into contact with a great variety of sub
jects about which otherwise one might never feel
called upon to £ think at all. This was my case in
December, 1857, when a Cabinet was called suddenly
to deal with a great financial crisis. When we met,
our Chancellor of the Exchequer had to tell us of a very
alarming state of things. Some of the largest houses
in the city of London were within a few days of bank
ruptcy. Even the soundest were in great alarm, and
would probably fall into the same condition unless
something were done to help them. To my astonish

Iment, George Lewis told us that some of the oldest

banks in Scotland, which had been accustomed to
regard as being as safe as the Bank of England, were
also in a very shaky condition. How could the Cabinet
remedy this condition of things, dangerously affecting
the credit of the commercial world all over the three
kingdoms ?

    Lewis told us we could ' suspend the Bank Act.'

90                THE INDIAN MUTINY               [chap. XXX

And what would that do ? It would enable the Bank
of England to issue more paper-money in the form of
notes than, under the existing law, it was allowed to do.
Peel's Act of 1844 had placed the issue of paper-money
under strict limitation, and the fact of that limitation,

if it did not cause, did at least aggravate the monetary
panic. George Lewis assured us that he had consider
able confidence in the remedy of simply for a time
withdrawing the limitation, and allowing the Bank of
England to exceed its statutory limits in regard to
paper. Of course, we agreed, because there was
nothing else that we could do. But it roused misgivings
lipanrwinmcbyieplmaesiwn--idswethhoiancteh--himacvopeuelrndaetivitveerbleybfeoneuenneddseeoddlvetoodn.breeCasoullusypldesontudhneaddt
when times of monetary difficulty came ? And as the
actual effect of suspending it was nothing whatever but
a larger issue of paper-money, were not the panic and
the crisis itself caused by an artificial restriction on
that issue which ought not to be restored ? Of course,
we could not of our own authority suspend an Act of
Parliament, without applying for an Act of Indemnity.
But hours and even moments pressed, and we did
authorize the Bank of England to issue notes beyond the
legal number, to a definite amount, and then summoned
IPaIrfliamweanst  to sanction what we had done.
                  surprised by the nature of the  panic  and
Iby the remedy proposed,
                        It  was  still more surprised by the
effect of that remedy.      was  immediate and complete.
IThe panic vanished like a nightmare when a man

awakes ; and yet, could not but remember, not one
farthing had been added to the wealth of the country
by what we had done. Not one single article that
money could purchase or represent, not one item in
the food or in the clothing, or in the miscellaneous con
sumption of the people, was increased in quantity or
in value by anything we could do. All that we did
was to tell the Bank  of England that   imt amniyg--htthveiollaawte,
a law on which great  value was set by

1857]  ABERDEEN AND PALMERSTON                                       91

namely, which forbids the issue of paper promises to
pay without a certain amount of gold or of securities
to back the promise. We told them that they might
issue such paper promises to the extent of two millions,
even although they had no gold to secure their sound
ness. This did  soefemtrutsot.meIttosbeeemaedstrtaongme eremmoerdey   for
a general want                                                       like
a new element of insecurity. But there is no arguing
against facts, and the follies of the human mind are

amongst the most powerful of all facts. All the people
that had been rushing for their money at the banks
were quite reassured when they heard that the Bank
of England had been allowed to issue paper-money,
which represented nothing but paper. This made it
Iall right, and the panic ceased.             wondered then, and
I wonder still, at the terms of currency and of banking
of which these transactions are the result. But it is

I Ia difficult subject, and am glad to leave it, as left it
Ithen.

       think that in the autumn of 1857 Aberdeen's
mind was a little under the influence of a most
Inatural irritation on account of Palmerston's sweeping

success at the polls. In no other way can account for
a sentence in one of his letters, in which he said that we

I' deserved to be turned out for India, as much as we

did before for the Crimean affair.' never allowed my
love for Aberdeen or my veneration for his character

Ito silence me on such occasions in our intercourse.
made this letter of his, therefore, an opportunity of
telling him my matured opinion on the Indian Mutiny,
at a moment when the public mind was still agitated
by angry and revengeful passions. After telling him
Ithat could not understand his sentence about our
I Ispulapcpeo,seIdnedveelirnqaudemncityt,ed,proceeded thus : ' In thefirst
                                                                     that
                and do not now admit,
we deserved to be turned out for the Crimean disasters ;

but in the second place, if we did, the Indian business
has not yet reached a stage at which anything can be
attributed to the Home Government, unless you refer

92                 THE INDIAN MUTINY               [CHAP. XXX

to Palmerston's request to send troops via Suez.
IThough it seems the best way, doubt if it would really
Ibe the
Ipassed
    tqouimckyest'    or the   most practicable.'         then
                   diagnosis  of the convulsion,'  which
wish to record here because it was so mature at a very

Iea'rlTyhteimIne.dian Mutiny is too horrible, but see nothing
to make me doubt that in the main it is a military
revolt. The part taken hitherto by the population has
been less hostile than might have been expected.
When order is suspended and licence reigns, all the
vagabonds and ruffians come out of their holes, like
other doleful creatures in the dark, and their deeds

Igive an aspect of general revolt, which other facts,
think, contradict. Still, the fanaticism of the Mahom-

Imedans has no doubt been roused outside the army.
have no fears of the result, not merely with respect to
the future Government of the country. People talk
very wildly about never having confidence in native
               when at  this  --mtohme eenftficwieentareheqlupe--llinogf  the
troops again,  by the   help                                              the
insurrection
native levies, and when the                  of    Bombay
and Madras seem -- as yet,    whole armies         faithful.
                                             be
                              at least --to
There is no doubt that the foundation of the revolt has
been laid in a relaxed military discipline throughout

the Bengal army, and it is not the first time in the
history of the world that the danger of the decay of
discipline in armies has been felt. You will see in the
Blue-book some very curious evidence as to the extent
to which a loose, disorderly, sulky spirit had prevailed,
and had been observed to      prevail during the last twelve
months --an aggravation       of the old inferiority of mere
discipline which has been notorious for years.'
  ISubsequent events have proved the correctness of

this view, but it was one in which was in a small
minority at the time.

                   CHAPTER XXXI

                                                  1857-58

              LORD PALMERSTON's ADMINISTRATION

The unfinished ' Autobiography ' of the Duke of
Argyll ends towards the close of the year 1857. He
was then a member of Lord Palmerston's Adminis
tration, in which he held the office of Postmaster-

General.

   Lord Palmerston had become Prime Minister
in February, 1855, before the end of the Crimean
War, which was terminated by the Treaty of Paris,
March 4th, 1856. In his Government, Lord Clarendon
was Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and Sir George Grey
was Home Secretary. Lord John Russell was ap
pointed Secretary for the Colonies when Lord Palmer
ston's Administration was formed, but he resigned that

office a few months later.

   The suppression of the Indian Mutiny, which had
broken out early in 1857, was practically completed by
the relief of Lucknow in the month of November, and
the work of restoring the country to order was only a
matter of time. In consequence of the Mutiny, the
question of the reconstruction of the Government of
India, which had been before Parliament a few years
earlier, now became urgent, and a proposal that India
should in future be placed under the direct control of
the Crown was under consideration.

94 LORD PALMERSTON' S ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

   The subject of Reform in Parliamentary Representa
tion was one which the Duke considered to be of
paramount importance at this period, and, as he
mentioned in his ' Autobiography,' he had already
urged on Lord Palmerston the advisability of bringing
the matter before Parliament at an early date. Lord
Palmerston, however, appeared to be inclined to post
pone the consideration of Home Reform, and to desire
to turn political attention to the question of the pro
posed change in the government of India. On this
subject, in reply to a letter from the Duke, Lord
Granville wrote, October 18th, 1857 :

  I' think with you that Pam's great object in mooting

the Indian question is to damp the reform of home
institutions.'

And in a postscript to a letter which the Duke received
from him a few weeks later, Lord Granville added

(November 7th, 1857) :                            It will

 ...I' have seen Pam's plan of Reform.

certainly not destroy the British Constitution.'

   The Duke was a steady advocate of moderate and
circumspect Reform, desiring always to forestall more
reckless agitators by means of some limited extension

of the franchise. Again and again he urged his anxiety
to have the matter at least provisionally settled ; but
it was in vain that he, with other members of the

Cabinet, impressed on the Prime Minister the necessity

of having a Bill drafted, so that he might be able, if

questioned in the House, to state that a measure was
ready to be introduced when opportunity should offer.
To Sir George Grey the Duke wrote as follows (Novem
ber 24th, 1857) :

1857-58]  LORD PALMERSTON AND REFORM                     95

I' think we shall meet a more formidable opposition
Ithan some of us seem to suppose, if we use India to
shirk the question of Reform.    have a very strong
impression that any measure which leaves all the
existing constituencies untouched (that is to say,
which involves no disfranchisement, and consequently
no enfranchisement of new places) will be fatal to the
union of the Liberal party and of the Government.'

   Lord Palmerston seemed so disinclined to treat the
question seriously, and thus remove it for a generation

from the political arena, that some of his colleagues,
and chiefly the Duke of Argyll, made repeated efforts
to convince him of the expediency of a well-considered

measure. On the 26th November the Duke had a long
interview with his chief, when Palmerston set himself

sedulously to persuade his loyal supporter that those
members of the Cabinet who were in favour of, and

had pledged themselves to, Reform, might be under no
apprehension that there was any intention of evading
the question. He assured the Duke that he was not
using the India Bill as an excuse for introducing a less
adequate redistribution and extension of the franchise

than he would otherwise have laid before the Cabinet ;

and he conveyed the impression that, contrary to a very
general expectation and surmise, he was prepared for
a substantial measure in this direction. The Duke,
in a memorandum to Sir George Grey on the following
morning, described this interview as follows :

' Palmerston expressed at first a very decided objec
tion : first, to the £10 for counties ; and, second, to any
Ilowering of the borough franchise. But, to my sur

prise, found him by no means equally decided against
some disfranchisement, though he evidently did not
Ihimself contemplate proposing   it.
                                 it would  be  a  great  thing
   ' then suggested to him that

96 LORD PALMERSTON's ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

if any plan could be devised which would enable him to
yield the £10 in counties without involving the dan
gerous consequences to the county constituencies which

Ihe feared. He said he saw no such plan, upon which
   told him what had occurred to me about the en
franchisement of the principal towns singly, and also
in groups, thus removing them from the county con
stituencies, and preventing the swamping effect of
I Ilarge town populations. We discussed for some time

the main objections, and urged all could in favour
of my proposal. He seemed to admit that the matter
was well worthy of consideration, and he has asked
me to go to his own house to-morrow at eleven to
show him the map of constituencies, etc. He told
m" etheatbrefiarskt-,upwiothf otuhte  Greosveervrnem, etnhtat"
                                                                he contemplated
                                                                upon Reform as

Iquite possible.

   ' strongly urged upon him the policy of at least
trying to settle this question, if possible, when he had
the power so much in his own hands, and when he could
I Igive to changes which are ultimately inevitable a safe
and constitutional direction.         told him that thought
his power and influence quite adequate to carry any
measure which would afford a tolerable ground of union
to the Liberal party, whereas his power would not be
adequate to arrest Reform if an obviously inadequate
Imeasure were proposed.
   ' was very much pleased by the way in which he
Iseemed really open to argument on all the main points ;

and if we are tolerably agreed among ourselves, think
he will be led to propose a fairly substantial measure.
He fully admitted that it might be desirable to add new
members to some existing constituencies, and to en
franchise some new towns ; he fully admitted also that
there was no fund from which to derive new seats,
except by disenfranchisement. He asked me what
ground there was for the assertion that 300 electors

Ihad been contemplated in 1832 as the minimum.
Icould not answer this, but pointed out that, if we are

1857-58]       PROPOSED REFORM BILL                                              97

to take numbers at all, we could hardly draw the line
Iat    lower figure.
    a   am now most        anxious              to be able to show that the
   '

£10 in counties will not materially affect the balance
of political power, if we give separate members to the
larger towns now represented. We then leave only the
small country places to affect the county constituencies,
and the inhabitants of such towns are all connected
with the agricultural classes around them.'

   After the meeting of Parliament, the Duke renewed
the discussion with Lord Palmerston, only to find that
he had made much less progress with the Premier than
he had imagined. Lord Palmerston was still inclined
to treat the matter in an indefinite way, and in a letter

to Sir George Grey the Duke expresses his concern that
his leader should show so little appreciation of the
critical position of the party.

          To Sir George Grey {January 15th, 1858).

   I' Before we broke up last evening suggested to
bPailllm--enrasmtoenly,thaRtefoitrmm--igphut t       well to have our other
                                                be   "thOeh,fotrhmereofwaill  draft as
                                                                               be time
                                                 in
soon as possible. He replied :
               for that ;  we cannot introduce it    before Easter !"
IeI nsoauidgh   thought    it extremely probable     that we should
not be able to introduce it at all if the India Bill made
heavy progress, but that it was important to be able
to say that it was ready.
   I' greatly fear that he may not have the importance
Iof this sufficiently before him.                    think that we shall
feel rather uncomfortable under the accusation of
insincerity about Reform, unless we can say with truth
that the measure is ready and prepared to be intro
duced whenever the state of public business gives any
hope of possible success. Pray, if you can, let this
necessity be put fully before Palmerston.'
   vol. n.
                                                                              7

98 LORD PALMERSTOn's ADMINISTRATION                                  [ohap. xxxi

To Sir George Grey {January 26th, 1858).
I' think you are to see Palmerston to-day at a
ICommittee.     wish you could find an opportunity of
                hIitmcathneeanseiclyessbietydoonfep;uattnindgnothwe  Reform
suggesting to                                                        that the

Bill in draft.
India Bill is virtually settled, it ought to be done if we
mean to meet Parliament in a position to defy insinua
Itions and accusations which must and will be made. . . .
   ' have refrained from raising the question in
ICabinet because this would have an antagonistic

appearance which should gladly avoid, and which,
indeed, would not be justified by Palmerston' s disposi
tion hitherto evinced to deal quite fairly with the
matter. But he is shy of the subject, and procrasti
Inates, and we must come to an understanding upon it.

   have already mentioned it. Your doing so would
have good effect.'

   Parliament had been summoned on December 3rd,

1857, to deal with questions arising from the commer
cial crisis to which reference is made in the ' Autobio

graphy.' The Queen's Speech, besides directing atten
tion to the question of finance, dealt with the subject of

the Bill for the transference of the government of India
from the East India Company to the Crown, and also
promised a Bill on the subject of Electoral Reform.

   All questions connected with India had an especial

interest for the Duke. He had devoted close attention
to the subject for several years, and had been charged
with the duty of answering for the Indian Department
in the House of Lords, as the President of the Board

of Control (Sir Charles Wood) was a member of the
House of Commons.

    On February 8th, 1858, a vote of thanks was pro
posed in both Houses of Parliament to the civil and
military officers in India for the zeal and ability which

1867-58]  DEFENCE OF LORD CANNING             99

they had shown in the suppression of the Mutiny. To
the Duke fell the task of meeting the attacks of Lord
Derby and of Lord Ellenborough on the Government
for its alleged delay in despatching troops to India,
and of defending his friend Lord Canning from the
insinuations made against him in consequence of his
policy. The Duke maintained that the Governor-
General had not shown any signs of weakness in his
administration, but that he had, on the contrary, given
evidence of the most statesmanlike foresight. The
following extract is taken from the Duke's speech in
the House of Lords, February 8th, 1858 :

  I' have taken some pains to examine almost all the
Icharges brought against Lord Canning, whether in

Parliament or in the Press, and venture to affirm
that there is not one of those charges of the least im
portance which cannot be clearly refuted from papers
which are already in the possession of the House.
Every one of them has emanated from the Calcutta
press, whose enmity has been incurred by Lord Canning
in consequence of those restrictive measures which at

at an early period of the Mutiny he considered it his

duty to adopt.'

   Comparing Lord Canning's conduct with that of Sir
John Lawrence in the Punjab and of Mr. Frere in

Scinde, the Duke said :

  I' am willing, my Lords, to enter upon that com
Iparison, and especially desire to direct the attention
Iof                                     in that comparison which is
                                        mean the proportion which
of
cthaerdHinoaulsiemtpoorotannecepo--int
the native bore to the European troops in the different

provinces of India. In the lower provinces, being
those more immediately under the command of the
Governor-General and under the influence of his per
sonal conduct, there were at the time of the outbreak

                                        7--2

100 LORD PALMERSTON's ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

about 29,000 native troops, against whom, in case of
disaffection, Lord Canning had to rely on only 2,362
European soldiers. Yet those are the provinces in
which alone      the  Mutiny            nreavpeirdlaysssuwmeelldedthoinseodthaenrgse. rouIst
proportions      to   which it
                 to say that in the     thIetnisanspoet cltesos f
is not enough    acted for the best.                                affairs
Lord Canning                                                       true to
say that all our knowledge of subsequent events does
but  confirm the wisdom                 Itanwdasprtuhdaetnfcoerbeoafrahniscemoadnedrathtee
and  forbearing policy.
confidence which, by means of it, he inspired into the
native troops, that they would not be harshly dealt
cwaiuthse--orit                to       be traitors without   sufficient
                 prejudged  alone       which prevented an   early out
                 was this
break in Bengal, and saved those provinces from the
f"eeanrfeurlgectiocnvmuelsaisounreswh"icwhhitcohokweprelacneoteltsaekwehnereb.y   The
                                                                                 Lord
Canning, and which were so constantly urged on him by
the Calcutta public, were, unfortunately, taken at Meerut
by men of inferior judgment, and instantly the Mutiny
swelled to the magnitude of a rebellion. In the North-
Western Provinces the proportion between native and
European troops was equally unfavourable (about
45,000 to 3,537), and there, assuredly, equal caution and
                 sqhuoaurldterh--avteo  been used. But now let us look
gentleness                              the provinces ruled by Sir John
to another
Lawrence. The Mutiny there broke out through no act
of his, but in consequence of the events at Meerut and

the capture of Delhi. But when it did break out, or
threatened to do so, Sir John was in a very different
position from Lord Canning in respect to European

support. In the provinces of the Punjab and the
Sutlej he had 12,424 European soldiers against only
42,000 native troops, showing an enormous difference
from the proportion with which Lord Canning had to
deal. Sir John Lawrence had also a warlike and well-
Iaffected native population, whom his own wise measures
had rendered heartily loyal to our rule.  hope it will
not be thought for a moment by any member of this

1857-58]  DEFENCE OF LORD DALHOUSIE                          101

IHouse that am seeking to detract in the smallest

degree from the eminent merits of Sir John Lawrence.

IBut since his conduct has been placed in invidious

contrast with that of Lord Canning, think it right to

direct attention to the essential difference between the
circumstances in which they were placed.'

   In the same speech the Duke fulfilled his expressed
resolution to pay a warm tribute to Lord Dalhousie :

  I' cannot omit this opportunity of expressing the
Ideep regret, which am sure must be shared in by every
member of this House, on account of the absence, and,
above all, on account of the cause of the absence, of
my noble friend Lord Dalhousie, who must take the
keenest and most painful interest in these events, and
who would have been so able to assist and inform the
          in the debates to which
House     inevitable, perhaps, that             they are     giving rise.
                                                this great   convulsion,
It was
occurring so soon after the close of his administration,
should subject him to many accusations from those
Iwho judge more from impressions than from reasoning

or from careful investigation of facts. But feel assured
that when the smoke of this contest shall have been
cleared away, the great reputation of Lord Dalhousie
will reappear in the eyes of his countrymen, who ought
not even now, during this very contest, to forget that
if one thing more than another has contributed to the
salvation of India, it has been the Government which
Lord Dalhousie organized in the Punjab, and the
admirable selection he made of the men by whom that
Government has been conducted. To them, and to the
other illustrious men who are to be included in our vote

to-night, the House and the country may well be grate
ful, not merely for the individual gallantry they have
displayed, but far more for the proof they have given
that  dtehcoasyeedq--uaalbitoievse  by which    we           India have
not                                  all, that  the  gained  and art of
                                                     power
converting to our own military use the people whom

102 LORD PALMERSTON's ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

our arms have recently subdued is not lost to our
military and civil servants in the East.'*

  ILord Granville characterized this speech as the ' best

speech ever heard Argyll make, right in tone, sub
stance, and length. He carried the House completely

with him, and most satisfactorily disposed of the whole

attack.' f
   In connection with the proposed Government of
India Bill, which was the subject of debate in the

Cabinet during the autumn, the Duke had written to

Sir George Grey (November 25th, 1857) :
I' feel somewhat anxious that we should be quite
Iagreed as to the reasons for our Indian measure, as well

as with respect to the outline of the measure itself.
do not think that the only      ditefe"nwceorkoefd  the present
system has been merely that                          well," and
therefore should be tolerated.  It has been kept up,
whether wisely or not, for the sake of some positive

advantage which it was supposed to possess, and to

avoid some dangers which a change was supposed to
involve.

   ' The main advantage was that it withdrew, or

tended to withdraw, the Indian Government from
Ibeing the direct object of party attacks and party

defence in Parliament. This was its main feature.
think that to a great extent it has actually had this
effect, and that the effect is in itself good.

   ' Vernon Smith \ expressly says that the Indian

Minister requires some support at his back, which he
expects to find in a nominated council, vice an elected
Court of Directors.

   ' In this respect, therefore, we cannot assail the

   * Hansard, vol. cxlviii., p. 843.       Edmond   Fitzmaurice,

  t 'Life of Ix>rd Granville,1 by LordX

vol. p. 290.i.,
       President of the Board of Control.

1857-58]        GOVERNMENT OF INDIA BILL                            103

present system as radically wrong, but only as need
lessly complicated and as involving unnecessary

Idel'aNyse.ither dodtehsitnrokyswethceanclsaaiymwoitfh"  justice that the
                                                         working well."
Indian Mutiny
I have seen no attempt to connect the Mutiny with the
Iform of government, nor do believe that any such
attempt could be made with success.
hit'hIenrtotho"swe orrkeespdecwtsell,i"n  which the Government       has
                                          it is continuing to work  very
much as it has ever worked. Even in the power shown
by its officers to train and mould to our own use the
native soldiery we have never had more brilliant success
than during this very Mutiny.
   ' For any sake, do not let us chime in, or appear to
do so, with those vague and illogical declamations
against the Indian Government which have proceeded
from Young India, and with which we shall be deluged
                             this session.
Iusq'uNeevadertnhaeulseesas,m think that    all the real  advantages   of
the present system may be preserved under a more
intelligible form of government, and that the use of the
Queen's name will be a source of strength. The sup
pression of a great rebellion, and the necessity of re
constituting our armed force, give us at least a plausible
occasion   for
          the
  I' But
                introducing the change.                   can  alone,
                very moderate reasons which
think, be urged with truth or justice for a change
which will                                  which will
forward as  appear so           great (and  will add to   be urged
                               very great)                the diffi
            if it were
culty of meeting the charge that we are really doing

it to escape from the question of Reform at home by
I Ian evasive measure.
   ' confess should be far better pleased to see
Palmerston set himself to settle, as he alone could settle,
this question, than ride off upon an Indian reform
which it would be easy to defer until matters were
more fully settled in India.

   ' You think it would be impossible to avoid expres

104 LORD PALMERSTON' S ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

sing an opinion on the form of government. So it
would be, if we admit the Mutiny to have resulted from
the form of government. But it would be easy to say
that the form of government ought not to be dealt
with until the country is again thoroughly reduced
Iand
    'pacified.  the  "  Company  "  will  show  more  power  of
      suspect
resistance than we expect, especially if they have such
a plea to urge.'

   The Government of India Bill was introduced by
Lord Palmerston on February 12th, 1858. The prin

cipal provision of the measure was the establishment
of a President and Council for the Government of
India, and it further included a proposal to place in
the hands of the Viceroy the appointment of the

members of the Executive Council in India. A very

elaborate Petition had been prepared on behalf of the
East India Company, and was presented in the House of

Lords by Lord Grey the day before the Bill was intro
duced. The duty of replying to Lord Grey was

entrusted to the Duke of Argyll, and, in writing to
Lord Granville on February 8th, 1858, he discussed

the best method of defending the proposed measure :

I' do not feel quite sure which is best for us : that
IGrey should put off or not.        confess that the notes
of V. Smith on the Petition increase my fear that his
Itone will be hostile, petulant, and recriminatory. He

cannot help it. Then, think Palmerston likely to
Itake some not very safe ground. On the whole, there

fore, have been rather glad that we should have to
Iopen in the Lords first.
   ' have been looking very carefully into the best way
Iof supporting our case on the mere question of time,
and yet without any allusion to details.              am con
vinced that it can be done, and be done effectively too,

1857-58]  PETITION OF THE E. I. COMPANY                                                             105

if one    can   execute     what                                     Itonies   intends.  But there is
          some   risk of  this.                                               sometimes
always                                                                                   an advantage
to be able to say that we cannot follow an opponent
into details, when the ground for saying so is so obvious
as in this case.

  ' If Grey opposes any measure on the ground of time,
and yet deprecates inquiry, he dissents from the
Petition, and opens himself to another reply. The
same arguments which he will urge against inquiry are
equally applicable against that agitation and discussion
which delay will infallibly give rise to on questions of

IIforganic change.                                                                       should

   ' the debate takes place in our House,
I Ilike to consult with you beforehand exactly on the line

which should take ; have sketched it out, and what

Iever line Grey takes about inquiry would make no

difference ; nor do think it necessary to indicate one
word of the proposed measure beyond the general
description already given of the adoption of the name
o"f    the Crown  and     the                                        abolition  of that  of the
     Company."
   ' Per contra, we                                                                                  of an
able speech from     mDuesrtbya--lways                                         consider the effect  really
                                                                              indeed, he knows
                                                                     if,

                                                                          I
much about the subject, which do not think he

does.'

   On the presentation to the House of Lords of the                                                 is
Petition, on the 11th February, the Duke spoke at

length and with effect. The following passage
quoted from his speech
'

                  a

                           ;

                                                                  :
     We may not, and we do not, think that the argu
ments of the Petition are very strong, far less that they
are conclusive we may, and we do, think that many of
them are of purely traditional kind, which have come
down from one generation to another, and which have
been repeated from mouth to mouth long after they
have ceased to be applicable to the circumstances of
the time. We may think that some of those argu

106 LORD PALMERSTON's ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

ments can be shown to be contradictory, while in
respect to others, the best and truest, we hold ourselves
at perfect liberty to accept them entirely and to assent
to them most cordially, but holding, nevertheless, that
they do not justify the conclusions in support of which
they are advanced. But on one point in respect to
that Petition we can agree with the noble Earl, that the
tone and temper of the document is worthy of the great

historical body from which it emanates ; that it is
Itemperate and dignified, and worthy of the subject to
which it refers.  can only express my earnest and
sincere hope that throughout the debates which take
place in Parliament upon this question we shall be able
on both sides to abstain from everything of a recrimina
tory character, and that we shall be  w--ilalindgestioregtivoe   each
other credit for what we all profess                            serve

this great country and its Indian Empire, and to pro
vide such a Government as may be most conducive to
Ithe happiness of the millions subject to our rule. And

as all public men will, am sure, admit the great obliga
tion which they owe to the permanent civil servants,

Iboth of the Crown and of the East India Company,
Itrust shall not be deemed guilty of any indelicacy
Itowards the directorial body of the Company if
express my anxious hope that the two eminent, able,
and distinguished men, who are understood to have
been mainly instrumental in drawing up this Petition,
may continue to give to any future Government which
may be provided for India that valuable assistance
which they have for so many years rendered to the
Government of the East India Company.'

   In a letter to the Duke a few days later, Sir Charles

Wood wrote :

  I I' In the first place, must tell you how much admire

your speech on India. You have taken the true and

Ionly ground on which we can justify our measure, and

   wish that you had introduced it.'

1857-58]          THE ORSINI AFFAIR                        107

   But the Duke considered that he had failed to
make one point against Lord Grey, and he wrote in
haste to Lord Granville, in order that the omission

might be made good :

Inig' ht--shaamll onnegveorthfeorrsg.ive   myself for one  omission last
                                          Grey abused the   stockholders
as a constituency, and regretted that they had not
been abolished in 1853. But the stockholders are the
Company. The directors are not the Company. There
fore, the very man who presented the Company's
Petition and deprecated the change, himself deplored
that the            had not been          abolished long ago.
What an   ICompany  not to hit him        on this capital error

          ass was
in his speech !'

   The India Bill, however, which was regarded as likely
to be a 'trophy for the Premiership ' of Lord Palmerston,
was not destined to pass into law under the guidance
of a Liberal Ministry. The defeat of Lord Palmerston' s

Government was brought about in a singular and most

unexpected manner. During the Christmas recess, an
Italian, named Orsini, made an attempt on the life of
the French Emperor. There was no doubt that the

plot had been hatched in England ; even the bombs
used were made in Birmingham. Popular indignation
was aroused in France, and the most absurd charges

were made against England. The French army, regi
ment by regiment, sent letters of congratulation to the
Emperor on his escape, some of which contained in

sinuations against England. These addresses were
printed in the Moniteur, which, being the organ of the
French Government, gave the impression that the
publication of the attacks against England had received
official sanction. Count Walewski, the French Foreign
Minister, addressed a despatch to Count de Persigny,

108 LORD PALMERSTON's ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

the French Ambassador in London, which, although

somewhat vaguely expressed, seemed to imply a cer
tain responsibility on the part of the British Govern

ment in connection with the machinations against
France of refugees from that country.

   Lord Clarendon, who was at that time Foreign Secre
tary, did not think it necessary to send any official com
munication in reply; but he privately instructed the

English Ambassador at Paris as to the opinion of the

Cabinet regarding the affair. There was every desire to
allay a natural irritation on the part of France, and to

ignore language, even if official, which was no more than

the expression of momentary passion ; and, after con
sideration, the Cabinet agreed to introduce a Conspiracy

Bill. The impression that this Bill was introduced at

the demand of France gave some offence, as suggesting

the idea of dictation from that country. The first read
ing was passed by a large majority. When, however,

it came up for the second reading, on the amendment

of Mr. Milner Gibson, censuring the Government for not
having replied officially to Count Walewski's despatch

before submitting the Bill to the House, the Govern

ment was overthrown (February 19, 1858).
   Thus, the second Administration of which the Duke

had been a member came to an end, and with it all the

Liberal projects for reform at home and in India. The
Prime Minister placed his resignation in the hands of
the Queen, who immediately called upon Lord Derby

to form an Administration.

   On the subject of the resignation of the Government,
Lord Aberdeen wrote to the Duke as follows :

  I' The propriety of              was
Iunquestionable, but
your resignation,        suppose,    It
had not taken it     for granted.
is, however, certainly comical that a man who for so

1857-58]    DEFEAT OF THE GOVERNMENT              109

many years had upbraided me for unworthy concessions
to Foreign  Powers should  at  last  have been overthrown
for an act  of this kind.      is a  lesson to be careful in
                           It

making such accusations.'

   A few months later the Duke received the following
letter from Lord Palmerston :

                               '94, Piccadilly,
                                     ' mh Aveu*t> 185a
' My dear Argyll,
          I' did not answer the very handsome letter
Iwhich received from you some time ago, because you
were going to wander on the Continent, and the event
Ito which it related was not likely to happen.
                                                  myself
never thought that the majority in the House of
Commons which so unceremoniously turned out our
IGovernment would be in a great hurry tolput it in

again ; and saw no prospect of stability for our

Government, if immediately restored, because the same
combinations which had overthrown us in February
Iwould probably have thwarted us in June, July, or
August.     was therefore prepared, and am so still,
to see the present Government stick in much longer
Ithan many people expect.

   ' With regard to yourself, however, all can say is,

Ithat if at any future time the Queen should call upon

me to construct a Government, should consider that
Government wanting in a most essential element if you
did not consent to become a member of the Cabinet.
            ' My dear Argyll,
                               '     Yours
                                                  sincerely,
                                               '
                                                  Palmerston.'

   When the new Ministry entered office on the 1st of
March, Lord Clarendon had an opportunity of vindi

cating the policy of the late Government, which he did
in an able speech. The Duke wrote the following day

to Lord Aberdeen :

110 LORD PALMEESTON'S ADMINISTRATION [chap. xxxi

  I'    dare say some of our friends will           finladstount ingehwt--canueswe
        censure in Clarendon's speech
for
dangers to the cause of liberty. But it made a great
effect on the House in the opposite sense. Derby sent
Malmesbury across to express his astonishment that
so good a case had not been brought forward in time,
adding that if Clarendon had made that speech before,
there would never have been any defeat.
' The truth is that Palmerston mismanaged the
Ho'uDsee.rbyH'se  did not        argue at all.
                  plan of        waiting for    legislation  till he gets
an      aCnasmwpebr ewllounlodwbesaryisdicouurlouBsillifisituwneexrecenpotitondaabnlgeero! us.I

     '

must say Gladstone's peroration in the Commons seems
to me directly the reverse of the truth on this question.
The reaction he speaks of in Europe is in a great
measure due to these crimes ; and if they can be
cfrheeecdkoemd,--inalfwinaityes  good will be done to constitutional
                                 supposing, of course, that the Bill is
in itself just, and within       Itthecrleualersly  of our  evidence. Who
can deny that it is ?                                 and   indisputably is,
and his assertion that it is in the slightest degree
I Iretrogressive is mere misrepresentation of its provisions.
   ' prefer a fall on this, where think we were clearly
right, to a fall on such things as the Privy Seal.'*

   * On which Lord Palmerston's appointment was likely to be
challenged.

                  CHAPTER XXXII

                                                 1858-59

                     THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION

Lord Derby was faced by considerable difficulties in

forming a Government, and, as he was in a substantial
minority in the House of Commons, he had to frame
his policy accordingly. The Conspiracy Bill was
quietly dropped, and the intention of the Government
to introduce an India Bill and a Bill for the Reform of
the Franchise was announced.

   The India Bill was introduced by Mr. Disraeli on
March 26th. Like Lord Palmerston's Bill, it provided
for an Indian Council, but with a larger number of
members, only half of whom were to be nominated and
the rest elected, partly by certain British constitu
encies, and partly by residents in England who had
interests in India. A letter to Lord Granville shows
what the Duke thought of this Bill :

                                                        ' Clieveden, Maidenhead,
                                                         'March 28<A, 1858.

  ' I am boiling over --foaming at the mouth --about
Ithis new India Bill with its Council, and shall
Ispeedily perish unless get out a speech for the assault
Ithereof.

   ' have seen nobody but Grey, who agreed with me
on the mischievous nature of the proposal, but thought
it should not be opposed on second reading. We in

                                  in

112        THE DEEBY ADMINISTRATION        [chap. xxxii

the Lords have nothing to do with that question, but

we cannot possibly wait till July in silence on such a
Bill ; and what occurs to me is to move, as soon as the

House meets again, for certain returns, which will
open a discussion, that is to say, that would serve as a
peg for a speech upon the general question.'

In reply, Lord Granville wrote :        'March 28th, 1858.

' Very many thanks for your letter. How little
Ione must believe accounts of predictions ! The India
Bill seems to meet universal reprobation.           believe
you are more thoroughly versed in the subject than
anyone, therefore one should be slow of offering counsel
to you. Abstractly one should say that it might be
questionable policy to raise the question in the House,
where, with Derby and Ellenborough for speakers, they
would probably cut a much better figure than in the
other House. You will naturally, however, confer
Iabout this with others.  wonder what the result will
Ibe. As to future arrangements, think that naturally
Palmerston is head of the position ; if he is sent for, he
ought to offer Johnny the next place to his own, and
if it is not accepted, it cannot be helped.'

              From Lord Granville.

                                        ' London,

' My Argyll,                            'March 29<A, 1858.

     I' This beginning is unintentional, but rather
     it !
     Lord
Ilike                  the Chancellor,  Clarendon,  Labou-
     '
           Lansdowne,
chere, G. Lewis, and met at Pam's. They were
all against anything being done in the Lords till the
second reading of the Bill in the Commons. There was
a division of opinion as to rejecting the Bill, which is
detestable, on the second reading : Palmerston, Vernon
Smith, Gladstone, and Chancellor for rejection ; Lans

1858-59]    THE NEW INDIA BILL                     113

downe, Clarendon, Labouchere, and I doubting the
expediency of it, unless we   were   cueprtoanindeoffeaat.maIjtorwitays,
and that Derby would not     resign
I Iresolved to settle nothing till the end of the holidays.

When got home, found G. Byng, with a message
from Ivanowitch.* John the son of John had first
thought it would not do to oppose the India Bill, but
now thinks it imperative to do so. He is inclined to
move the rejection himself, but will not commit himself
till he knows whether he would be supported by the
late Government.

  I' called on Pam, over whose noble countenance a
Ishade had passed when first mentioned the proposi
Ition ; but he agreed that it was the best way of doing it,

and am going to write to that effect to G. Byng.'

          From Lord Palmerston, 31st March, 1858.

'  My       dear Duke   of Argyll,

         '  Lansdowne,  Cranworth, Clarendon,  Granville,

Lewis, Labouchere, Vernon Smith, met here yesterday.
We all agreed in an opinion similar to yours about the
Government India Bill, and our conclusions pointed
towards rejection on second reading, dependent upon

communication with Lord John Russell. After our
meeting, Granville saw young G. Byng, who came
with a message from John Russell to ask whether
we would support him if he were to move rejection of
the Bill on the second reading upon the ground of in
surmountable objection to the new constitutional
principles which it would introduce. This seemed to
me an offer which we could not refuse without implying
either personal objection to John Russell or predilection
for the Bill. Granville, Lewis, and Lansdowne con

curred (we were not able to consult the others), and we

agreed to send word to John Russell that we are ready
to support him. Such a combination will insure defeat

                        Lord John Kussell.

vol. n.                                        8

114        THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION                              [chap. xxxii

of the objectionable measure, and combined action
between us and John Russell will please the Liberal
party in the House of Commons. My belief, however,
is that the Government will not wait to be attacked,
but that, hearing how universally their scheme is
laughed at and condemned, they will of their own
acc' oIrddowinthodt rabwelieavned  alter  it.
                                   that   even  if  they  stood  by  their

measure and   were beat            they would       ifonI  that account
              should not           be uneasy               thought they
Iresign, but
Iwould. Till lately thought that there would perhaps
be an advantage in their remaining in till next year,
so that they might bring in and carry a moderate and
reasonable Reform Bill ; but the specimen we have
now had of their absurd and fantastic style of legisla
tion leads me to the opinion that it would be better
that the              session should be their last.
           present     that we should say nothing                about  our
  ' It is  desirable
arrangement with John Russell for the present.'

                      To Lord Granville.

                                                'Clieveden, Maidenhhad,

' My dear Granville,                                       185S-

         ' Have you yet heard anything more of Johnny's

Iintentions on the India Bill ?

   ' have heard from pretty good authority that the
Government means to give up the city-election.*
Indeed, the tone of Derby's speech leads one to suppose
that they mean to give up anything and everything
that may be requisite to           secure a majority.
   ' We must be cautious           what we do, else there         can    be
no doubt that the Bill, in spite of future promised
concessions, should be opposed on second reading.

Because it is not as if no other Bill were before the

   * The Bill provided that the elected members of the Indian
Council should be partly chosen by five constituencies -- viz.,
London, Manchester, Liverpool, Glasgow, and Belfast.

1858-59]         THE NEW INDIA BILL                                      115

House. There is another Bill, and wherein No. 2
differs from No. 1 it is essentially wrong in principle.
IPam sent me a letter from Bethell, in which that legal
dignitary took,    think, rather too high              Iground against
any mixture of   the elective principle in
                                                       the Council.
prefer greatly pure Crown nomination, but we should
use no argument which would preclude us from adopt
ing, if necessary, some mode of election other than
Ellenborough's.

          From Lord Palmerston, 6th April, 1858.

    '  MI yow' dInehIaargvoeDthureekceweihvooelfde  Argyll,

but                                                  your letter of the 1st inst.,
                                                    length of Bethell' s arguments,
and think that it would be at variance with a funda
mental principle of our constitution that any persons
who form part of the executive Government of the
country should be appointed by any authority except
Ithat of the Crown, or of some officer appointed by the

Crown ; and see nothing in the nature and circum
stances of India which would require or justify a
dep' aTrhtuereonflryomdiftfheraetnceelembeentwtaereyn  principle.
                                                        India and  any   other

beyond-sea possession of the Crown is that peculiarities
of races, habits, and religions render necessary on the
part of the Cabinet (that is to say, the executive and
responsible Administration) local knowledge which can
scarcely be possessed by persons who have never been
to India ; and therefore the Minister for the Indian
Department ought to have advisers to furnish him with
such local knowledge, and with opinions founded on
that knowledge, to be submitted for his judgment and
for that of his colleagues.
   ' For this purpose the Crown should have the power
of appointing a Council ; but as that Council is to advise
the responsible advisers of the Crown, it is right that
the choice of those advisers should rest with the Crown
and its responsible Ministers, and should not be vested

                                                                   8--2

116          THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION                       [chap. xxxh

in other persons, who have a less interest in choosing
good men, and less means of judging who would be the
fittest  for the  duty.
          giving   to the  Crown    the  appointment        of the
   ' In
Councillors, we are not only conforming to the prin
ciples of the British constitution, but we are following
exactly the precedent of the hitherto existing state of

things.                                                     It
   ' The directors are appointed, and not elected.
is a complete mistake to consider the directors as an

elected body in the sense in which it is proposed that a

portion of the Councillors should be elected. The
Crown gave to the East India Company a lease of the
Sovereignty of India, and during that time the Com
pany became the pro tempore Sovereign of India. The
Company would not as an aggregate body administer
and govern. The Company, therefore, was empowered
by law to appoint an executive and administrative
body to govern India ; but the only way in which the
Company could make such appointments was the
way in which      all associations                      of  a number of
persons must      necessarily act   --conthsaisttinisg  to  say, by the

majority of  the votes of the  members of the association
or Company
             itself. It was,   then, the Sovereign of India
for the time being that appointed the directors ; and
now that    the Queen is   to become     the direct ruler of
           is the Queen    who ought     to appoint all the
India, it
          concerned in the administration of Indian
persons
affairs.  If the Court of Directors, or any part of them,

had been appointed by election by any other body,
such as the voters of great towns, or the holders of
3 per cent., or the shareholders of canals or railways in
England, then, indeed, such a state of things might
have formed a precedent (though one to be avoided
and not to be followed) for continuing a similar state
of things when India is transferred to the Crown ; but
the precedent and analogy go quite the other way.
   ' Nor can the arrangement of 1853 be quoted in favour
of the elective principle, because what was done in 1853

1858-59]            THE INDIA COUNCIL                                  117

was  simply  othf isIn: dTihae--Cthroouwgnh--  that is, the  owner of  the
fee  simple                                    it continued    during  the
pleasure of itself and Parliament the lease of India to
the Company, yet introduced into the governing body
an additional element of its own, over and above the
control of the India Board, and obtained the right of
appointing a certain number of the directors. But
the change then made went in the direction of nomina
Ition by the Crown, and not in the direction of election
by any third party.  shall certainly be prepared to
argue strongly against giving to any extraneous body,

constituted as it may be, the power of deciding who

shall be the persons whom the Crown and its Ministers
shall look to for advice to assist them in performing the
duties for which those Ministers are to be responsible
to Parliament.
                             ' Yourg s'inPcaelrmelye>rston.

  I' P.S. -- believe Ayrton will move the rejection of the

Government Bill, but the Government will not go out
merely because their Bill is thrown out.'

                To Lord Palmerston.

                                               ' Clieveden, Maidenhead,
I' My dear Lord Palmerston, ' April 8th, 1858.

       ' am so entirely satisfied that Crown nomina
tion is by far the  tbheestInadnidanalmCooustncitlhethoant lyI  practical
mode of selecting                                               am very
little disposed to question
many which may be urged      any argument among                        the
                             in favour of that plan.
                                                                        If
you can succeed in convincing the House of Commons
that, besides being useless for any one purpose and
injurious in many respects,                    plan of  election is also
unconstitutional, so much    the               better.
                             the                        It is of great

advantage in this argument that the only constituency

Iwhich has been proposed is manifestly absurd. All

mean to say is, that if there were any body of men whose

118         THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION                         [chap. xxxn

choice would probably tend to secure fit selections for

the Council, you might find it difficult to prevent their
being employed for that purpose on the somewhat
                       of constitutional principle.
abstract   argument    you point out between election                 as
   ' The  distinction

applied to the present directory and election as applied
Ito any part of the new Council is very important, and

   quite agree with you that election in the latter case
wo'uTldheinfvuonldveamqeunittealaenrreowr  principle.
                                           of these schemes  is  the  idea
that the Indian Council is to check and control the
Minister, whereas the only                       oMbjiencistteisr.thatIfthtehiCsouwnecreil
should advise and assist                   real
                                            the

clearly seen, the clamours for election would cease,
unless it could be shown that better advice could be

secured for the Minister by some mode of elections. If
that could be shown, Parliament might be disposed to
waive the strictly constitutional argument which
Bethell urges, on the ground that the Indian Council
partakes of a legislative as well as of a purely executive
character.
' The intrusion of any sort of popular election by
English popular constituencies seems to me perfectly
monstrous. This would clearly imply a total miscon
ception of the whole object and functions of the
Council, which is not to represent either home interests
or English             but                 to afford Indian experience
and Indian  opinions,                      the intention of the Govern
            advice.    It is
Iment, know, to throw over the plan as to the city
Iconstituencies ; but can't well understand how they
are to go on if they are beat on the second reading.
That vote will imply that in all respects in which their
scheme differs from ours it differs for the worse. Surely
Ino Government can go on with any honour or credit
after such a vote.     am glad to know the line of

argument, as well as the line of action, you propose
to take, as we shall soon have discussions in the Lords.
Many persons were till lately disposed to look favour
ably upon some kind of selection for a part of the

1858-59]   INDIA BILL PASSED                        119

Council, without having considered how or for what

purpose.

  I' Ellenborough's absurd scheme will have done much

to diminish this feeling, and think we can attack the
principle  of election  from      many
                                  Yours  different sides.
                               '
                                         very sincer'eAlyr, gyll.'

   The India Bill met with general disapproval. At

the meeting of Parliament after the Easter recess
(April 12th), Lord John Russell brought forward a
proposal to proceed with legislation for India by way of
Resolutions. This afforded the Derby Government an
opportunity for withdrawing their own Bill, and the
India Bill, as amended and reconstructed in terms of

Lord John Russell's Resolutions, finally became law on

August 2nd, 1858. The subject may be fittingly closed

with an extract from a letter to the Duke from Mr.

Gladstone (June 21st) :

' The political sky looks quiet. The Government,
after obtaining strong majorities against nomination
in the Indian Council, has ended by proposing what very
little  differs from  itw. hoThseayyst,hu"s         a fair handle   to
Lord     Palmerston,                          give   for so small    a
                                             Why,
matter, depart from the common practice ?" Lord
John, on the other hand, says it is so near nomination
that he will take it as a substitute.'

   On May 25th the Duke started for Carlsbad, where
he had been recommended to go, in order to take a
course of the waters. He travelled with the Duchess
by Antwerp and Brussels, and broke his journey at
Heidelberg to visit his friend Baron de Bunsen, of
whom he wrote to Lord Aberdeen from Carlsbad :

    ' Bunsen especially desired to be remembered to you.
He has grown older : his hair is now quite white, which

120           THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION    [chap. xxxii

it was not when he left England ; but he seems tolerably
well,   andI   very busy with   his new   translation of the
Bible.        am always struck  with the  amazing amount of
his knowledge, and with its variety and accuracy, in
contrast with which the vagueness and theoretical
character of his opinions on all practical questions is
not less remarkable. On this account he was very
little appreciated in England, but he is surely one of the
most remarkable men of our time.'

Turning to home affairs, he continued :

I' am not sorry to be away from England just now,
              is little  in  public affairs to give anyone
...where there               Gladstone had joined them,        any
                         If                                    the
satisfaction.
Derby Government would have become really good
Ienough for all practical purposes.       rather shocked
IBunsen by telling him hoped Gladstone would join
IDerby. He thought it would be a great fall on Mr.

Gladstone's part. But hold that whatever injury to
himself Gladstone might do in this way is done by his
Isupporting Disraeli ; and if he supports him, cannot
Isee why he should not serve with him.    am indeed
amazed at Gladstone's high moral sense of feeling
being able to bear with Dizzy. But he does so, however
Istrange it may be.          can only account for it on the
Isupposition, which suppose to be a true one, that
personal dislike and distrust of Palmerston is the one
absorbing feeling with him, and that he is willing to
sacrifice every other consideration to keeping him, if
he can, out of office. Admitting all that can with any

Ijustice be said of Palmerston, hold this feeling to be
Inot even rational. have no hesitation in saying that,
comparing Lord John with Lord Palmerston, the latter
is, in very many respects, the safer man of the two,
Iinasmuch as he is more amenable to the opinion of his

colleagues. During the last three years have several
times   differed materially  frIomhavPealhmaedrsotcocnasoionn  several
points  of importance, and                                      to ex

1858-59]      PARLIAMENTARY REFORM                                121

I Ipress that difference to himself ; and must say

have always been struck with his willingness to be guided
by the common opinion of the Cabinet, with his
candour and his perfect good-humour. Now, with
Lord John, though he is superior to Palmerston in
knowledge of most home politics, one never can be
sure for twenty-four hours that he will adhere to what
has been agreed upon, or that he will not be guided

Irather by personal advisers than by his colleagues. In

short, see no good ground for the violent personal
prejudice which is the sole ruling motive of Gladstone
and Graham's course.'

  The Duke left Carlsbad on July 12th, and spent a

few weeks travelling in Germany and Austria, returning

to London on August 6th.
   For some time negotiations had been going on

among the members of the Liberal party with a view
to determining upon some united policy, especially
with regard to the question of Parliamentary Reform.
On March 15th, 1858, Mr. Sidney Herbert had written
to the Duke as follows :

    I I' What wish is that disagreements should cease.
Ilook forward to a gloomy future.         had rather make
no contrasts between the faults of possible Prime
Ministers. There is too much material of that kind
    make it   either difficult or pleasant.
to  ' In the  moeuatnbwidhiltehethLeibperreaslenpt aprteyo--plea  seem inclined
to   try and                                                      course which

will be justly fatal to themselves, and, what is more
important, will be fatal to the  ccoaupn. tryIftoDoe. rbyWhgoaetsevfeorr
they propose our friends must
universal suffrage, Palmerston or Johnny will produce
the women     and children.
              require cautious  steering  on the part of
  ' It will
those who prefer the interests of the country to the
interests of the party to prevent mischief being done

122             THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION     [chap. xxxii

Ibetween them all.    look upon you as one able and
willing to take an important part in so regulating
Imatters ; and I, though wearied and disquieted with
politics  and   dpeosliirtaicbilaensb,utw, oIufledarc, ounntaritbtauitneabwlehaotbjecct.a'n
towards   this

   The Duke's thoughts were at this time much
engrossed by the consideration of some scheme of
domestic reform which he believed would forestall the

policy of the extreme Radical party; but he was willing

to accept an adequate measure even from the Con
servative Government, in preference to leaving the

question to be dealt with by the extremists. On the
9th of August he wrote to Lord Aberdeen :

I I' have spoken to no one on this subject yet, and
Iknow many would consider

wished Palmerston to settle it,
                      it a sort of        Itrseaawsoan.way

                      and believed
Iof doing it ; but now that we have lost the opportunity,

  rather wish to see it settled by Derby, if he can with
such colleagues produce an honest measure.'

          To Lord Aberdeen {August IQth, 1858).

  I' know Grey's hostility to Reform. But it must
Icome, and am not afraid of it, provided the Govern

ment which deals with it is united and the measure be

an honest one.

  I' took an active part in the late Government on
Ithe question, and with some success.
                                          have a plan
Iwhich am satisfied would be attended with many
advantages, especially this : that it carries within itself
a tendency to render  omf uscehatsfu--rtahemr ocshtanimgepoimrtpaonstsioblbejeacst
regards distribution
to aim at.

   ' But every scheme propounded and not carried is
Ione added to the list of schemes damaged and rendered

impossible, and am not willing to see this plan proposed

1858-59]         NEW REFORM BILL                               123

Iat all unless under such circumstances as are likely to
secure success.  would far rather help Derby against

Ithe Radicals than work with the latter, by whose help

  fear some of our Liberal friends would seek to recover
power at any sacrifice of their principles.'

   A rumour reached the Duke, who was then at

Inveraray, that Lord John Russell and Sir James
Graham had been drafting a Reform Bill, and on
August 31st he wrote to Lord Aberdeen :

  I' It is all very well to feel one's way to what each

other would support, but am against any sort of move
oiGmnnofeivnntetihtrein"smepesvruonilbpt mjoemscaientyagnbusewnthtdoiaol tnpwerooetpbhoyessrehsa.al"wl iCIlhfloanhDvsaeiezvrezvsyeatetohinvabsewidhGhisaoutvpwetarthnyoe,,

if not beyond. But we can't now help this. Such is
the position of the Opposition that the evil would only
                 hbeyaraLnoyrdprGemreaytuisre"  move on our     side  o"f
Ibe aggravated                                  all over of a  shake

the House.
as to what will happen when Dizzy has Reform in his
            But we must not      foofllgorwandGr"eyc'osmlpineen.satHoery i"s
hands.    nervous, and too full
far too
Istohcfheemomriyneosoritwthieehsricw,"hisewwhiiltclhhannevrereercaosbolleneaccbtaleyrr.oieud,c"aRltlheeodpuraegsh"encntooanttuioninn
drum," is one of such items. The English people are
Itoo practical and unideal ever to understand that sort
of thing.        am persuaded, which is more important,
that it is not necessary, and that the advantage aimed
at can be otherwise attained.

  I' wish to have some communication among our

Iselves, yet hardly know how to set about it. You
can advise better than anybody else.'

   Some political significance had been attributed to a

visit which Lord John Russell had paid to Lord Derby

at Knowsley, but the Duke, being himself willing to

124     THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION                                             [chap. xxxii

co-operate with the Conservatives to secure a moderate
measure of Reform, did not disapprove of the idea of an
approach being made to their leader. He alludes to
the subject in a letter to Lord Aberdeen on 12th October,

1858 :

I' Lord John going to Knowsley is like him.                                   dare

say he is indignant at the Morning Post article, and
would go in spite of the world. This is just his kind of
pluck. But, to say the truth, although the form in

Iwhich the report is put is absurd, suspect there is
Isome sort of foundation for a suspicion. Nor can
Isay that object. For the public interest, this Reform
question ought not to be made the shuttlecock of
party ; and if  Lord John  Isees his way                        to any       combina
                                                                see no       blame to
tion that may    secure a  settlement,

Ihim. He is free of his former party, as they seem to
have loosed themselves from him.                                "haspopmeen   to know
tphaarttieLs o"rdasJonhenceshsaasryb. eenButtaltkhinisg                      fusion of
                                                           of
                                                         is in  confidence.'

On the same subject the Duke wrote to Sir George

Grey (October 21st, 1858) :

I I' My dear Sir George,                                        'Inveharay.

        · As far as can make out since came home
from abroad, we are still   in
an end to this condition   of    chaos,                  "anwdithnooutprofosrpmectanodf
void."                          things

' Lord Aberdeen seems to think it more than possible
Ithat the Government may decline attempting Reform

altogether. But this do not believe. They will
propose something ; and after our experience of the
India Bill, it is impossible to say how far it may not be
an extremely Radical Reform in at least some things,
while aimed in others at strengthening the Tory
Iinterests.

   ' am not in the least disposed to wish that we should
play into Bright's hands by proposing democratic

1858-59]       PARLIAMENTARY REFORM                125

Iamendments, if the Bill of the Government is a tolerably

fair one. On the contrary, should be glad to see the
                settled, at least for     time, by them.
que' sBtuiotn  in any case, whether    a  for moderate changes

                                                                or
for total opposition, we ought to have some under
standing among ourselves as to the line we should take,
and in order to do this we should have some definite
Iidea of what we should ourselves aim at as regards the

principle of any measure. am all against making any
definite proposal or propounding any definite plan
when we have no prospect of carrying it into effect
with the authority of a Government. But this is
quite a different thing from basing our opposition, or
our criticism of actual amendments, on definite views
as to the object to be attained, and, so to speak, the
direction of our fire.
   ' We know perfectly well the main conditions of the
problem which every Reform Bill must deal with. We
know that to some extent both county and borough
franchise must be dealt with, and we know, too, that
the existing distribution of seats must undergo modifi
cation.
   ' That
I  regard      the latter should be well  and wisely dealt with
               as even more important     than the first, and if
we are agreed on the outline which we had sketched for
ourselves, we have, to a certain degree and in an im
portant respect, a base-line of operations.'

               To Sir George Orey {October 25th).
   I' Many thanks for your letter.
                                          agree very much
with you, save that, though no Reform Bill can, or
ought to be, aristocratic in tendency, it may be essen
tially Conservative as regards the great principles of
Iottohuer' tIhrpfeerpowprweeoosserkitdneiotean"ptiodftneihrmma;ot acharnaondcyldya,Bs"oilflalrtgh"eaemmmguersaetaganabtiinengmsdtsiedaamdrsleesoecanrctattliaatnsicgcsh.e"todof
constituencies which lie between those purely city

126                    THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION  [chap. xxxn

(commercial or manufacturing) and those purely agri
cultural, we shall keep what will save us to a great

Iextent from mere democracy. But shall write more
Ifully on this subject afterwards. Meanwhile, write
Ichiefly to say that feel sure Lord Aberdeen will give
Iyou every information in his power. He is on the move
just now.              don't quite know the day he is to be in
London, but he is going there immediately. He
writes as clearly as ever, though perhaps the manual
part  Iofshitallmtaeyll  be sometimes     a little fatigue  to
But                      him that you      have thoughts    of  him.
sulting him. '                                                  con

   In the autumn Mr. Bright had been very active
delivering speeches throughout the country -- speeches

which the Duke characterized as containing ' some

fallacies, but marked by considerable oratorical power ;

speeches that will, no doubt, do some mischief with

t"hetheigrenoisraannt   and unreflecting  ;   and, as Carlyle   says,
                       immense plurality     of blockheads." '

While on a visit to Lord and Lady Kinnaird at

Rossie Priory, the Duke performed the ceremony of

opening the Dundee Corn Exchange and Public Hall.
His speech on this occasion was a direct answer to

Mr. Bright's attacks on landowners and on the House of

Lords. It is impossible to give an adequate idea of

this speech without quoting at too great length, but

an extract is added here :

' Mr. Bright was good enough the other day to turn
his eyes northwards to this poor naked land of Scotland,
and he mentioned as one of the great evils of our con
dition  that there       were various persons in this
whose    mainstay          was oatmeal porridge.            Ncoowun, tryI
remember Dr. Johnson, who always hated Scotland
and Scotsmen, used to talk about that kind of grain
which was food for horses in England and for men in

1858-59]           SPEECH AT DUNDEE                                                                          127

Scotland, and Mr. Bright seems very much to partake

Iof the same feeling. Now, can only say to Mr. Bright
Ithat wish he had one-half the chance of good health
and long life and vigour of many of those healthy

Imountaineers whom have seen bred up on oatmeal
Iporridge. But freely admit that, without counting
oatmeal porridge among them, we have many evils
                our social state.
Iaff'ectisnege  that the various       ...      of society  are                                              uniting

                                       classes
Itogether, as see them united here to-night, for the
purpose of rectifying those evils and of endeavouring to
Imeet them. . . .

   ' The distinguished orator to whom lately referred,
Ispeaking in the name of peace and progress, and taking,

as think, these great names in vain, has been en
deavouring to raise animosities which are now extinct,
and to divide those whom the good providence of God
and the course of events have year by year been
Ibringing       emmaoronrreeesaatlnnyxditomruuossrltye----cnlotohseamttaofnogretttrhhueesrt.psum.rpo.ors.ee
    ' do                                                                                                     earnestly
or hopes                                                                                                     of prose
cuting those great works of social and political improve
ment in this country we may long continue to enjoy
Ithe'blessings of
       repudiate   peace. . . .        which has been                                                        held by
                   the doctrine
Mr. Bright that the wars of this country have been
Imainly

appeal
          toduheimtsoelfa--nywaosneit  class   of  the community.
                                       not    but  three or four weeks
ago that he directed his observations against the
working classes of this country for those generous
sympathies which made them unite heart and soul in
the late great war with Russia ?

           *****

  I' hold it to be a false and narrow philosophy which,

whether in domestic or foreign politics, sees no hope
for the future except in a wild and indiscriminate de
nunciation of the past. How different is the feeling
with which our history and our institutions are re

128            THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION                               [chap. xxxii

garded by foreigners, who are earnestly longing to
Ienjoy some portion of the liberty which we have so long
enjoyed.       remember some four years ago being
present at the opening of the British Parliament at a
period of great excitement, and standing close beside
olivneedofinthoeurmcoosut ndtirsyti--ngouniseheodf   foreigners who has ever
                                                    the many who is longing
to impart into his own some part of those noble institu
tions under which we     have so long flourished as a                 nation
-- and as he saw that     great spectacle, all orders                 of the
IState represented in the assembling of the British
Parliament, heard        ohf imdeespaye, mfaortiomnor:e"toHahpimpyselifs  than
to me, in language                                                        that

people between whose past and whose present no gulf
of forgetfulness has been fixed, whose progress has been
                         under the                              and protection
a steady       progress                              guidance  element of life
of their       ancient   laws --no                  national
Irejected, no national memory forgotten." And such,
               be our  progress still.
say' ,Itmaisy  one of  the many evils               of  violent       language,
addressed either to one section or to another section of
the community, that, acting by irritation upon the
minds of some and by timidity on the minds of others,
Iit induces some men to doubt the end and others to

mistake the way ; but see in such evidences as this
great meeting a clear proof of the social progress of our

people.'

   This speech was received with enthusiasm through
out the country. Congratulatory letters poured in
upon the Duke, and an extract from a letter of Lord

Clarendon's (November 27th, 1858) may be quoted
here :

' I read with great pleasure and admiration your
speech the other day in answer to Bright, who, it must
be admitted, has done service by                                      how little
steam is to be got up for Reform.                       shItowminagy  be said of
him, as Lord Byron once said of his mother-in-law,

1858-59]                     LAURISTON CASTLE        129

Lady Noel : " She has been dangerously ill--she is
now' Ddearbnygertoaulksleyd  well   again."
                              to   me in glowing  gratitude of the
service Bright had rendered him at Birmingham, and
said that, though there was no such man as a real re
former, and though no one wanted a measure of
Reform, yet that a measure there must be, and that it
must not be a sham one, which would only irritate

Iand lead to extensive demands.

   ' heard that you were very unwell after you re
turned, and am rejoiced that you can now give a good
report of yourself.'

       From Lord Aberdeen {November 2Uh, 1858).
   ' You have taken the field with good effect against
Bright, and the Press of all degrees seems to be with
you.'

   The Duke refers to this speech in a letter to Lord
Dufferin, written from Lauriston Castle, in the neigh

bourhood of Edinburgh, which he had taken for the
winter :

                                             'December 12th, 1858.

  I' We often                                become of you and the
                                             preserve her, dragged
little mother
          --wobnledsesr            what has
                                   her and
about by a wild Irish boy ! know no sadder fate in
the wide range of ills which flesh is heir to.
   ' Here we are, all in a pie, in a castle overlooking the
Firth of Forth on one side, and the regal towers and
outlines of Edinburgh on the other. Our great first
parent, the mother of us all, and the Duke are here,
soon to disperse, they to Trentham, we to Rosneath,
for Christmas. We return when the boys go to school
Iagain. They are getting on very well. . . .
    '  aSlilnocweanycoeu--leaftsptheeesceh  shores have been spouting at
                                            de omnibus rebus at a new hall
no
in Dundee, which was rather a success, and another on
vol. n.
                                                  9

130      THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION                  [chap. xxxii

IIndia here, which think will have been useful in its
Iway. am next going to lecture on geology in Glasgow.
IWe shall remain chiefly here, to be with the boys,

till Parliament meets, when must go up to be present
at the general scrimmage which doubtless will be.

IHow envy you the blue skies and the bluer seas of
Ithe Mediterranean ! used never to tire looking into
Ithat wonderful water, its softness and intense colour.

But it can be an angry sea, and should like to hear
of you safe, not having implicit confidence either in
the machinery or in those who manage it. There's
for ye !
   ' Have you heard of the infamous behaviour of Uncle
Graham, the big Baronet of Netherby ? Last autumn
Johnny Campbell came to Inveraray and reported the
big Baronet as having, along with him, landed at the
pier and gone to the inn without saying one word to me,
Ian old colleague.  walked down, fuming. He had
Igone out walking ; followed and chased. At last, in
Ithe deep dusk of the evening, looked down the long
I Iavenue ; no one but or a bat could have seen, but
did fancy that far, far down in the shade of the old
I Iabenec"heasmplecouplrdesdeinscceer"n;what,nearer,must have
                    so                    walked   down, and  been
                                                              sure
enough came on the delinquent walking with Lady
Hermione. He had no good excuse, but about clothes

IIannesd'xhItoaumhlpedoialrgrntreiivnmlalgratigohweueesmnttoliatotAlllferfwd--krboviintnesggrlyaoisffb.gaIodswSsceoioprnehdaeutnocdcta.tmsrcye.a.,n.daan. ld,trbuthusett
to the little mother's correspondence to keep you going
on that            ?H--asthsahte   really  got all her dogs and
parrots  subject.                 odious,   deceitful beast of a
         with her
Ipoll that invited the end of my finger, and then bit it.
  Ihope it is drowned ; give it my malediction.    As for
                                                   Let us
the mother, tell her how sorry am for her.
hear from'you.
                                           ' Ever th'inAer, gyll.'

1858-59]   LORD JOHN RUSSELL ON REFORM        131

   On November 24th, 1858, the Duke received a letter
from Lord John Russell on the subject of Reform :

I' believe we should agree very well on the important
I Isubject of Reform ; but while agreeing in Bright' s ends,
cannot approve of his means.     know not, however,
that any measure can be devised which shall prevent a
Ifurther extension of it twenty years hence.  shall be

Iglad to know your views upon this.
' My view is a very simple one.      wish to amend and
preserve the Reform Act, not to build up a new system

Iof representation. The Bill of 1854 was consistent

with this opinion, but must own that the necessary
omission of the minority clause would change its aspect

Ivery considerably.

   ' imagine Bright has no expectation of carrying his

measure, and that if he introduces it, or tries to intro
Iduce it, he looks to the future and not to the present.

He admits, understand, that the best he can expect is
Ito have no legislation next year. Thus, the field is

open to Derby, who, hear, is working upon the details
himself. When we have seen his scheme, we can nurse
Iit or strangle it, as the majority may think proper.

Any previous action would, fear, be time and trouble
I Ithr'oWwhnenawaysa. y this, however, by no means intend to
Isay that it will not be useful to exchange views on the
subject on terms of perfect reciprocity.  have been

Iin correspondence myself with G. Lewis and C. Wood
on this subject.  shall be delighted to hear anything
Iyou can suggest. Other issues will rise up before

Parliament meets, and cannot imagine that the
present Ministry will be able to dodge through the

session.'

     From Lord John Russell {December 1st, 1858).

  I' think with you that it is very desirable to turn

our minds to the consideration of some substitute for

                                                                                 9--2

132  THE DERBY ADMINISTRATION            [chap. xxxii

Derby's measure, in case his Bill should not prove

I Iacceptable to the House of Commons or to the country.
   am sorry to say, however, that those with whom
have communicated show in general an indisposition to
discuss what they call details. Graham, Gladstone,
and G. Lewis are all of this mind. C. Wood alone has
intimated an opinion similar to yours, and founded on

Ithe same reason-- viz., the prospect of permanency.
Icannot say have at all made up my mind ; but,

Iagreeing in the object you have in view, have my

doubts whether you will attain it by the proposed
method. For (1) the small boroughs themselves hate
their neighbours most intensely, and would generally
prefer a place in Schedule A, in which case they belong
to the county at large. (2) One of my main reasons for
preserving small boroughs is that Tamworth, Tiverton,

IMorpeth, Midhurst, Huntingdon, etc., have sent some

of the best members, and fear that in destroying local
influence you would lose such men. The canvass of
four or five small towns leads to intrigue and com

promise. (3) In Scotland, though clusters of boroughs

Iexist, do not believe they are popular ; you know this,
Ihowever, better than do. (4) Roebuck's objection

Iof the expense of agency goes for something.
    ' Of course, with opinions so unfinished as mine,

Iexpect to be to a great degree guided by the nature of

Derby's measure and the reception it meets with.
will only say, therefore, that your proposal is a better
one than mine of 1852, for the reasons you give. . . .
Gladstone says Reform cannot be blinked.'

   The Duke was inclined to take a favourable view of
the intentions of the Government, but he began to
doubt the ability of the Ministry to produce a satisfac
tory measure, and on 29th December he wrote to Lord

Aberdeen :

  I' So you

Reform Bill
     think    theIf  Government will     carry  their
     easily.         it is a reasonable  Bill,  hope

1868-59]  DISRAELI INTRODUCES THE BILL                                                               133

IotBhpueetyn,Iwofielrl,,arfaostrheDeaGrmboyvneorcntamlalenedxnitoiut,sis"tiondcasaenpegaltibnhlgeis  "quaensytionlonkgeepr.t
                                                                                                      of producing
anything but some cross between Toryism and Radi
calism, and that won't succeed.
   ' Charles Howard the other day met Bright on his
return from the Scottish campaign. He was in great
ntWgthhooehoothiudgDig-nshuhgurtmhtoaLaotomucrra,dolpml aJveoatitnhoednlfreonnrpowt!ru--eagtrheIudtnrsgduteeaopddnpdwotshtreoie"tedhotoehpainpmnooiktetrhateunhhrntaeintrldyeahsttaothfdemoerrre--stta"hhoideen;
Ircfaeumcltoioelluesscto,fCPhoerisnel psoLaasiidwtio"nled."tidtenrLootfrrdotemnJodhEtnod,indIbimuhroingpihes,,h
                                                                                                     which,
                                                                                                     the diffi
                                                                                                     will keep
quiet and watch. That is clearly his game, and not bad
cards in his hand, either.
Iesbtnarco'lilenoTsght.--erf.eeIe. limisn. egaa--HnrauvmtotehouinymrokautkhaeahstetiartDordneogrbptythoiiopsmnina?eiloannIws aihttlhoasove--acllooaanwgsavtiinetthsureyt
the ballot. . . . The motives under which men act in
secret are, as a general rule, always inferior to those
Iunder which they act in public.

   ' see no sort of reason to suppose that this rule will
rbeeasroenvienrgsecdlasisnesr.espIetctseetomsthteo  more ignorant and less
                                                    me that it might succeed
in counteracting some of the most legitimate influences
exerted by one class of society over another, but that
it will leave the poorer classes open to all the influences
of corruption by which they can be moved.'

   The Reform Bill was introduced on the last day of

February, 1859, by Mr. Disraeli, the Chancellor of the

Exchequer. It had the effect of reuniting the Liberal

party in a common cause, and Lord John Russell,
Mr. John Bright, and the Duke, from different points of

view, were equally opposed to it. On the 8th of March

the Duke wrote to Sir George Grey on the situation :

134         THE DEBBY ADMINISTRATION                           [chap. xxxii

' Your letter, which from some mistake at the P.O.
Idid not reach me till this morning, was a great relief ;
for,  foronmMwonhdaatyP, aIlmwearsstionnghreaadt  said  to me   when     saw
him                                               fear  that   he had  made
up his mind to oppose Lord John and support the
Government. Nothing but the folly of the Govern
ment in insisting on the forty-shilling clause would
have saved us from this, because Palmerston made no
secret to me that he dreaded any course which might
lead to Lord John being called on to form a Government
which he could not join, and should be obliged to
oppose. So far as this is founded on a personal feeling
that he could not serve under Lord John, there is
Inothing to be said ; but as regards the public question,

   urged that there need not be any insuperable diffi
      b"ectahuese,greinatspbitoedyof  Lord John's alarming words
                                      of the working classes,"
Iculty,

about
believed him to entertain moderate opinions as to the
Ilowering of the borough franchise, as well as on the dis

franchisement of seats. On the first point thought an
£8 occupancy would probably satisfy him, and on the
latter that he would not insist on more than we ourselves
had half agreed to propose ; but that if Lord John were
Iopposed by his old friends he might be easily driven

into Radical hands. Palmerston, as have always
Ifound him, was straightforward and reasonable enough,

but could see that, behind, there lay a settled resolu
tion that, if possible, he would checkmate any move
ment for the overthrow of the Government on the
question of Reform. He spoke, however, in decided
opposition to the forty-shilling clause, and this now
Iturns out  to be virtually the principle of the Bill.
    ' feel  convinced that the Bill will be thrown                     out.
The secret or half-avowed desire of many of our friends
to help the Government in passing a Bill less Liberal
than we ourselves could have ventured to propose, is
a feeling which can never be brought into successful
action on such great Parliamentary questions in the
face of public discussion, especially when the main

1858-59] LORD JOHN RUSSELL'S AMENDMENT                             135

objection is one so formidable and affects so large a

part of the constituencies. In one or two it is nearly
one-half ; in a great many more one-third ; and in a
Istill          number one-fifth.
    '   larger  the paragraph in   the  Times  about               Lord
          hear
IJohn's resolution, or, at least, his meeting, is not true.

Yet it sets forth a course of action which think good
and safe.'

   On the second reading of the Bill (March 21st), Lord
John Russell brought forward an amendment, to the
effect that freehold franchise in counties should not be

interfered with, and that the £10 household suffrage
in boroughs should be lowered. The Duke wrote to
Mr. Gladstone (March 22nd) :

   ' This Government can't possibly     survive long--             aIt
least, such is my firm belief-- and     however glad
Ishould be, as would many others, to see Reform settled

at once, can see no reason in pretending that Lord
John's resolution is more directly aimed against the
Government than any amendment would be, which the
                                   "LloicrkdedJo"hnin'tso
Government cannot admit.                                   opponents
                                                           any shape
argue as if the Bill could be
in Committee. But concession on the part of the
Government must find some limit. They have pretty
clearly indicated a line beyond which they dare not
and cannot go ; and if the amendments which people
assume might be carried in Committee are really
admissible, then the Government might as well accept
the resolution at once.  andSothtehaBt,illinmtursutthfa, llt--hea  result
comes to be the same,                                              great

opportunity lost irrecoverably as regards this Govern
ment, and perhaps as regards every other.'

   After a debate extending over several nights, Lord
John Russell's amendment was carried against the

Government by a majority of thirty-nine (April 1st),

136  THE DEEBY ADMINISTRATION  [chap. ixxii

and on April 5th it was announced that the Ministry
would dissolve Parliament and appeal to the country.
At the General Election which followed, the Conserva

tives gained some seats, but when the new Parliament
met, the Derby Administration was again in a minority.

In the meantime the Liberal leaders had sunk their

differences, and were acting together loyally. The
first effect of this reunion was the defeat of the Govern
ment. Lord Hartington, on the meeting of Parlia
ment, proposed an amendment to the Address, which
was virtually equivalent to a vote of want of confidence,
and it was carried by a majority of thirteen. Lord
Derby resigned office, and the question of the choice
of a Liberal leader was in the hands of Her Majesty for

solution.

   The compromise concluded among the members of
the Liberal party had been to the effect that either
Lord Palmerston or Lord John Russell would be willing
to serve under whichever of them should be sent for

by the Queen. Her Majesty endeavoured to evade
the difficulty by sending for Lord Granville, and he, as
in duty bound, tried to form a Government, and failed.
The Queen then sent for Lord Palmerston, and Lord
John Russell loyally accepted the decision, and took

office as Foreign Secretary.

          CHAPTER XXXIII

                        1859-60

          LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY

The new Ministry formed by Lord Palmerston in June,
1859, was a very strong one, representing as it did all
sections of the Liberal party. The Duke had accepted
the office of Privy Seal ; Sir Charles Wood was Secretary
for India ; Mr. Gladstone Chancellor of the Exchequer ;
Mr. Cardwell Irish Secretary ; and Lord Granville
President of the Council.

   The affairs of Italy had engrossed public attention
since the beginning of the year 1859. Considerable
excitement was aroused in Europe when it was known

that, at a reception of Foreign Ambassadors on
January 1st, the French Emperor had remarked to
Baron von Hiibner, the Austrian Ambassador :

  I' regret that our relations with your Government

are not so good as they have been hitherto.'

   The feeling of apprehension was further increased by
the unconciliatory nature of the speech made by Victor
Emmanuel at the opening of the Sardinian Chambers
on the 10th of January.

   On January 12th, 1859, the Duke wrote to Lord

Aberdeen :

I' I need hardly ask you what you think of the Sardinian
speech !  imagine it to be unprecedented for one

          137

138 LOKD PALMERSTON's SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

Sovereign to speak of the  subjects  coafusaenottoheurttSeorvaere"igcnry,
at peace with himself, as  having
of anguish." This is, of course, a direct incentive to
rebellion, and would justify a demand for explanation
Ifrom  all the other Italian Sovereigns.
    '  feel all this to be true, and yet  the  peculiarity   of
the case accounts for (for it cannot justify) so strange
a departure from the ordinary obligations of inter
national conduct. The total and absolute want of
any sort of amalgamation between the German rulers
and the Italian people, notwithstanding so many
centuries of possession, constitutes a state of things
which is a perpetual source of disquietude and alarm.'

  It soon became apparent that the intention of the

French Emperor was to join the King of Sardinia in
an attempt to free the Italian provinces of Lombardy

and Venetia from Austrian rule. Events were pre

cipitated by the conduct of Austria in demanding the
disarmament of Sardinia, which resulted in a declara

tion of war on April 23rd, 1859. Hostilities commenced
two days later, and were terminated, after a duration of

three months, by the Peace of Villafranca, on July 11th.

   After the publication of the Italian Blue-book, at the
conclusion of the war, the Duke, under the name
' Investigator,' wrote two letters to the Times dealing
with the subject, in which he criticised the conduct of
affairs by Lord Derby's Government, which had been in

office at the time of the outbreak of the war :

, gm                                      'Jubf 25th, 1859.

       ' The Italian Blue-book has not been discussed
in Parliament. Before it was published, the Minister
who conducted the diplomatic correspondence on behalf
of England had been removed from office. Thus,
hostile criticism was disarmed before it could be

1859-60]              ITALIAN AFFAIRS                    139

brought to bear. It is the common talk of the par

tisans of the late Government that if this Blue-book

had been published sooner, the verdict of Parliament
on the question of confidence would not have been the
verdict actually pronounced. Many who are not par
tisans of the late Government have received a general
impression that Lord Malmesbury* has come well out
of the correspondence, and that no very definite justi
fication is afforded for the mistrust with which he was

Iregarded by the public.
    ' am one of those who have derived from the corre

*****spondence a very different impression.
' Those whose sympathies lie mainly on the side of
Austria are accustomed to attribute the war entirely
Ito the conduct of the Sardinian Government.
      of the conduct   of that Government                speak
        its nature    and constitution.
here                                        as           distinguished
from                                                     must be ad
                                           It
mitted by all parties that the mere existence of such a
Government in Italy, with a free Press and a free con
stitution, was one of the main causes of the war.
Without any direct action on the part of that Govern
ment beyond its own territory, it was necessarily a
standing cause of excitement and agitation among the
adjacent Italian populations which are subject to
Austrian rule. But no one blames Sardinia for having
been in this sense a cause, and a main cause, of the
agitations which led to war. What she has been blamed
for (I do not now say whether justly or unjustly) were

her direct efforts to produce revolt in the Austrian

and other States.
' The speech of the King at the opening of his Parlia
ment on the 3rd of January was the first public act of
this nature which arrested the attention of Europe.
B" ugtrotahnes eoxfpreItsasliyon"s  in that speech were  vague. The
                                    might refer, not to  the internal

administration of any State, but to the system of

* Minister for Foreign Affairs in Lord Derby's Government.

140 LORD PALMEESTON'S SECOND MINISTBY [chap. xxxiii

foreign intervention which has been so long an ad
mitted grievance, and which the King of Sardinia had
a clear right to denounce. But no such limited inter
                              another act of the          Sardinian
                              after followed--            mean the
Ipretation could be put on

Government which soon
framing of the memorandum of the 1st of March.
That document openly
Austrian dominion in any      assailed      the         existence of
                              part of
                                           Italy.         It declared
that no measures for the relief of Italy could be more
than  mere palliatives        which  left   any part of         Penin
sula  under Austrian          rule.        is impossible  the    exag
                                     It                     to
gerate the gravity of such announcements by any
Power, in respect to the legal dominion of another over

its own hereditary possessions. In the circular ad
dressed by the Austrian Government to its agents at
other Courts, justifying itself for going to war with
Sardinia, special reference is made to the issue of this
memorandum by the Sardinian Minister, as of itself
justifying an appeal to arms (Blue-book, p. 389).
Similar language has been held in our own Parliament,
and that, too, by men who in the next breath eulogized
Lord Malmesbury for his exertions in the cause of peace.
Yet one of those exertions was to elicit by direct request
*****from the Sardinian Government this famous memo
randum, and to give it, also by direct request, the
Ispe' ciahl advierecsteieonn  so obnoxious to Austria.
                              with astonishment that    this  fact  has
never been alluded to in Parliament, and has hardly
been noticed in the Press.

   ' It was in compliance with the demand made upon

her by the English Government that Sardinia drew up
the famous memorandum of March, which Austria sub
sequently declared to be of itself a sufficient justifica
tion of war. Lord Malmesbury was not responsible
for what that document contained, further than that
common-sense might have led him to anticipate what
its general character would be. But he is responsible

1859-60]          ITALIAN AFFAIRS                                    141

for such a document having been issued at all, and it is
tIhf isshwehiwcherecotnostigtuivteedhtehre  complaint                Sardinia.
                                            opinion at      against  Austrian
                                                             all on
dominion in Italy, that opinion could not be different
from that which was set forth in the memorandum
with distinguished ability and force. But the issue of
such a document at all, in reference to the legal dominion
of another Power, was undoubtedly an act not justifiable
Iby the ordinary rules which govern international rela

tions. For this, repeat, Lord Malmesbury is directly
responsible, and it is difficult to understand how he
could afterwards scold Sardinia for not having confined
herself   to her own affairs,               "ainndvokfoerd  having by inter
ference   with her neighbour                                the storm."
' This is one instance in which the best intentions
have not saved Lord Malmesbury from a serious
blunder, or England, under his guidance, from a serious
responsibility.'

            To the 'Times' {July 26^, 1859).

  I' am not one of those who think that the mere fact

of Austria having been the first to begin hostilities is
sufficient of itself to throw on her the whole responsi
bility of the war. There is much to be said in favour
of the position that Austria was justified in considering
war to be inevitable, and in holding that she herself
was not bound to wait until the preparations of her
enemy were complete. But whoever else may hold this

language, Lord Malmesbury cannot. In one of the

most careful of the documents he has laid before
Parliament, Lord Malmesbury has recorded it as the
solemn judgment of his Government that this act
rendered Austria responsible, not for the whole con
sequences of a conflict which, so far from being in

evitable, was then actually on the eve of being averted.
. . . No man ought to have known better than Lord

Malmesbury that no possible change or modification
of form could prevent the proposed measure of Austria

142 LORD PALMERSTON's SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

from being an irrecoverable declaration of war. He
knew that Sardinia had been, and still was, unwilling
to allow her own disarmament, even as a part of a
                       hpaaHnretdsoou"fgwhAtaussttotrhiaehavv"eertyoknthtoawinknge  that
general arrangement.                                                                this
any attempt on the                                                                  that
question into her own
the war-party in Sardinia most desired to see. No
h"oacsuksi-npgoc"usraothf erantyhasnort"  or kind, such as calling it
                                          summoning," could conceal
the import of such an act from the sharp eyes of Count
Cavour.'

   Among the first questions to be considered by Lord
Palmerston's Ministry were those which arose out of the
Italian war and the unexpected Peace of Villafranca,

which had been concluded between the Emperors of

France and Austria on July 11th, 1859.

   The Duke, who as Lord Privy Seal was free from such

duties of administration as might have kept him in
London, had spent the autumn at Inveraray, and was
therefore not present at a series of Cabinet meetings
at which the Italian question generally and the

Emperor's suggestion of a congress were discussed ;
but he was kept well informed of the course of events
by Mr. Gladstone and Lord Granville. Mr. Gladstone
wrote to the Duke on August 31st, 1859 :

' The Cabinet parted for the vacation, after you
had left for Scotland, on the 17th. We had then no
idea of any early proceeding of importance with
respect to the Italian question. But on the 21st it
seems that Lord John presented to the Queen a draft
despatch with something like a new map of Italy.
The    Qauteoennceo--bjencotevde,ryansidgnathl eprMoionfisotferthewidthedlibreewratitohne
draft
with which it had been prepared. He then substituted
a proposal to communicate to the French Government
an important despatch of July 25th, written in answer

1859-60]         PROPOSED CONGRESS                                   143

to the French invitation that we received to state
our views respecting a congress or conference. This
despatch, it seems, went off with a closing sentence
desiring Cowley not to make it known to the French
Government until after the proceedings at Zurich
should have been completed. This prohibition Lord
John had specially mentioned to the Queen as sug
gested by the Cabinet and approved by him. The
truth, most of us thought, was this : that the Cabinet

had simply thought there should be a passage inserted
in the despatch reserving our liberty to decide about a
ctoonagnreesnsda. fteBr utht eLoZrudricJ.h
                                            proceedings should have   come
                                            had understood them to   desire
a prohibition, and had so put it, and so stated it to the
Queen. This being so, she, on receiving his second pro
posal (at least the second ; we could not make out quite
*****consulted and reverses too."
clearly whether there was not                          "soTmheis  other or others
between), not unnaturally said :                                  prohibition was
dI ecliabnenraottelyrevaedroseptemd ybyapyporuovaalll
                                                       and approved by me ;
                                                       unless the Cabinet is

' It was agreed to summon a Cabinet to consider this
affair. There was a general opinion when we met that
the despatch might very properly be communicated, for
the prohibition was never intended to enforce secrecy,
but merely to reserve our freedom about a conference
entire ; and, besides, we then thought affairs at Zurich
would be over in a few days, whereas they were now
threatening to extend almost to months. But mean
time Lord John had brought down, in lieu of the pro
posal he had made to the Queen, a new draft with a
                 of fresh
goo' dWedeaalll   agreed   matter.          ...        draft.     Lord John
                           against
                                            the new

was then very desirous to know what he was to say to
France after Zurich, if she proposed a conference, as
he wished to go for five weeks at least to Abergeldie,
distant 550 miles ; whereto we answered that in such

case there should be a Cabinet. . . .

144 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

   ' The conduct pursued has been hasty, inconsiderate,
and eminently juvenile ; one is led to fear that it may
have left behind disagreeable recollections. Sir G.
Grey, we trust, will prove highly emollient.'

   The Duke replied to this letter on September 3rd,
1859:

I' have only time to-night, having just got your
letter, to say that it, with another from Granville
giving very much the same account, has filled me with
great anxiety,  only in some    Idegree relieved by  finding
that you take   the view you                         doubt,
                                do, which cannot
from the facts you and G. concur in relating, is the

Icorrect one.
   ' have been amazed lately to observe that (either)
the decision of the Cabinet in respect to drafts is not
given effect to, or it is misunderstood, and that what is
said seems to leave the vaguest possible impression on
Lord John's mind. Then, we are kept in entire ignor
ance of what is going on until the last moment. Why
should not the state of the negotiations be laid before
us, by printing the despatches up to the latest possible
Idates ?
gifoew' sAeswineftalelrrifnearseItdalcytaon--o mbaecattktieevre,olyup.trofbrIotambsleyet,hmetshnateonwmistpeawptoheuarsltd,   all
                                                                                                                              do
                                                                                                                             the
Icourse of events is leading naturally to the results
which are most to be desired.        object altogether to
our                             of   Italy.  --Oouthrerdsoinwghosseo
will  constructing new  maps    the
      encourage others  to do          same

Imaps will be constructed on a different principle.

   ' look much to you to keep the peace, because your
position in reference to Italy will render it very difficult
for Lord  John     to           in any line you
          But   I  do  persist  fear that with so   may  dis
approve.               greatly                     much  new
impulsiveness and so little desire to take his colleagues
along with him, there will be some unhealable breach

soon.

1859-60]  ITALIAN AFFAIRS                            145

I' agree with you in my recollection that the Cabinet
Idid

the
was
call
ndiotone, tesptioasmutcphfhfoaiscveieoefnsbteJeluycerlney"cycn2oo5man, s-mcwaouhmniccichmoa,ntitdetadiastilo,"fnaatrainsoanstcrheeef. erYreeacInontclkleeweceatto,ss
merely reserving to ourselves our decision as to a
congress, but rather implying that in certain events
we had no insuperable objections.'

          To Mr. Gladstone {September 9th, 1859).
' Your letter the other day was very interesting as
regards what had been going on, but you said little
Ias to your own view or opinion of what is going on in
Italy.    see no European objection whatever to a
Ikingdom embracing Sardinia and all Central Italy.
Do you ?  conclude that nothing short of force will
Inow suffice to make either the Tuscans or the Lega

tions give up their desire, and would fain hope that
Iour most timely protest, determined on at the last

Cabinet attended, will have served to decide the course
of France against the employment of force, or will, at
least, have so increased the difficulties of her allowing

it as to render it practically impossible.'

From Mr. Gladstone {September 12th, 1859).
   ' As to Italy and the F.O.,
your former letter and of this  the  asreentmimineent--s nbootththaotf
                                one
Iyou have stolen, but that adopt and countersign.
IAbout F.O. am fearful, from former recollections,
that what has happened will happen again. About
the Duchies and even the Legations my hopes now, as
well as all through (unless at Villafranca) have been,
to use Longfellow's words, overmastering my fears.'

England declared for a policy of non-intervention,

and the Duchies, notwithstanding the Peace of Villa

franca, refused to take back their rulers, and unani

mously voted for annexation to the new kingdom
vol. n.
                                     10

146 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxui

which was forming itself in Northern Italy under the

King of Sardinia.
The British Cabinet was divided in its sympathies,

and on the question of intervention there was a differ

ence of opinion. Lord Palmerston and Lord John

Russell were credited with having formed public

opinion in this country in favour of Italy, notwith

standing the opposition which they had to meet in their

own Cabinet. The Duke advocated the doctrine of

non-intervention, and, as the event showed, that was

the wisest course. Towards the end of 1859, speaking

at a banquet given in Edinburgh on October 26th, in

honour of Lord Brougham, the Duke said :

I I' will only say that trust we shall be able to
maintain the interests and the honour of the country :
that, on the one hand, we may be preserved from the
great error of undue interference, when neither these
interests nor that honour is concerned ; and that, on
the other hand, we      shall be preserved from that other
error -- the policy     of selfish isolation, which would

deprive us of our just influence in the counsels of the
world ; and, lastly, that when that influence is called
for, and when it can be exercised with propriety, it will
be given in favour of those principles of justice, of
humanity, and of freedom, which are the mainsprings
of all our blessings.'

   An important consequence of the Italian War was

the annexation by France of Nice and Savoy, which

were claimed by the Emperor, practically as a reward
for his active assistance to the Italian cause. These

provinces, the transfer of which had been agreed upon
at the Secret Treaty of Plombieres, in 1859, were

finally ceded to France by the Treaty of Turin, March
24th, 1860. Lord John Russell protested, but without

avail, against this transaction, which had a profound

1859-60]  DISPUTE WITH CHINA  147

effect upon public opinion. A warlike feeling was

aroused in Great Britain, where the possibility of
invasion called forth a Fortification Scheme and

revived the Volunteer System.
   While Lord Derby's Administration was still in office,

a difficulty with China had arisen, out of the somewhat
too rigid instructions given to our Envoy, Mr. Frederick
Bruce, by the Foreign Secretary, Lord Malmesbury.
Mr. Bruce had been sent to Pekin at the same time as

the French Envoy, to ratify the conditions of the treaty
negotiated the previous year by Lord Elgin, at the

conclusion of the preceding war with China. It had

been arranged that the Envoys should ascend the
Peiho River, as far as Tientsin, in a British man-of-war.

This was designed to impress the Chinese with the power
of the European allies ; but the Chinese, unfortunately,
were not impressed in the way desired, and believed
that they had a right to indicate the route by which the

Envoys should approach the capital city.
   Admiral Hope, who had been instructed to support

the Envoys, demanded that obstructions, which had

been placed in the Peiho River by the Chinese, should
be removed. This demand was refused ; an attempt to
force a passage was repulsed disastrously, and Britain
had another little war upon her hands.

    Opinions at home differed regarding the situation.
The Cabinet could not approve of the instructions
issued by the late Government, and disliked even more

the way in which those instructions had been carried

out ; but it was impossible to repudiate the Envoy, and
it was necessary to vindicate the honour of Western

civilization.
    The Duke sought information on the subject from

Lord Elgin, who replied on September 29th, 1859 :

                                                                                          10--2

148 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

' That we should have suffered ourselves to be beaten
Iby Chinamen is indeed one of the saddest of occurrences,

but do not think we are yet in a position to answer
all the questions you put as to what may have been the
intentions of the Chinese Government in respect to
Ithe ratification of the treaty. After what happened

last year, suppose that they were anxious to show
that they could cut off access to their capital by way
of the Peiho River. The Admiral told my brother
that                     with perfect
tions.  he  Itcoisulda  bad business.'                              ease  remove  the  obstruc

The Duke thought that Mr. Bruce had ' acted

foolishly, and the Admiral with stupid bravery.' He

wrote to Lord Granville :                                                 ' Inveraray,

, ,M,y dear G,, ranville,                                                        ' September, 1859.

        ' We were very sorry to hear of Lady Granville's
illness and of your sudden call on that account to
Carlsbad. Pray write me a line to say how she is ;
address here.

  I' have been kept from attending any of the late
ICabinets, but have heard of them in tolerable detail
Ifrom Gladstone. Not trusting very much to German
Impporiustttdsae,lnstpeshepcoehled--chma--tywAbpheearatdceete.hne.  Johnny has made a very
                                                                     Yankees call a non-com

                                                                       In respect to the Chinese,
am all against submitting to any nonsense such as they
seem to have practised on the Yankee Minister, who
was sent up to Pekin caged in a van, like one of Womb-
well's wild beasts.     Better to have none at all                                     than
                        is supreme nonsense to talk                                    as if
submit to this. It
we were bound to the Chinese by the same rules which
reg' uGlalatedstionnteernahtaios nalal terelylatiboenesn            in Europe.
                                                                      writing a   review             of
            new hpaoveem.b*eenBuwtrithinegf--indysoutimweouflodr
ITennyson's                                                                            doing
                                                                                       never
everything.

* ' Tennyson's Poems ' {Quarterly Review, No. 212, October, 1859).

1859-60]          DISPUTE WITH CHINA                                           149

guess on what subject --" Navigation of the Air " !
IBu'tTelal mmeattwehnodinagre  also a little to
                               at Carlsbad.         sublunary affairs.
I Iof England ?                                     Are you in the King
                  think shall be back there some of

Ithese days.                                                           trust we
   ' My Duchess goes on perfectly well.
jshall have a good account of your wife, and with
kindest regards to her,                       '     am>  yours         eAverrg>yll.'

                                                                    '

Mr. Gladstone wrote to the Duke on September 18th,

1859, giving some account of a meeting of the Cabinet :

       ' In the Cabinet yesterday we had a satisfactory dis
cussion. There was not the slightest indication any
where to treat the present question,                     which is      --entirsealyy
                                                          the last
In"etwra, diatciocnorsd,"ingbetcoautshee
                                traditions of            not legitimately
                               opinions are
transferable from one to the other. There was a
unanimous disposition to send a powerful force, and,
I Ion the other hand, a great deal of doubt about Bruce' s
hpirsocveeerdyingdsif.ficultwiwshork.couIltd  feel  sure that he       was up         to
                                              was    determined        to get         an

opinion as to the principles of law on which he acted,
and it remains in reserve to what extent and in what
form satisfaction, as well as obtaining ratifications,
       to be  made the objects of
are    Lord   Palmerston, with                the   force.  for        discussing
    '                                         his   taste

military measures, opened a little the question what
they might be, but himself proposed the adjournment
Iof decisions (beyond directions for sending force and

what have stated), and behaved with much tact and
fairness.'

To Mr. Gladstone the Duke replied on Septem

ber 23rd, 1859 :

I I' see a Cabinet is called for to-morrow. China,
Isuppose. We must,             suppose, fight those rascals.
IBut at the same time don't think our proceedings

150 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

will stand the test of international law, as applicable

between civilized States. But it would be madness to

be bound on our side by that code with a barbarous
people, to whom it is unknown, and, if known, would
not be followed.'

   The war did not last long enough seriously to dis
organize the national finance. Lord Elgin was sent
out, accompanied by Baron Gros, the French Pleni
potentiary, to secure the ratification of the treaty he
had negotiated, and the allied forces took possession of

Pekin. A new treaty was concluded, by which Tientsin

became a ' Treaty port,' and the right of having repre
sentatives at Pekin was conceded to France and Great

Britain.

   Mr. Gladstone conveyed the news of the ratification

of the treaty to the Duke on December 15th, 1860 :

I' It is with joy that snatch a moment to tell you
Lord John has just brought in to us, after the Cabinet
had ceased   to sit, a   telegram come this   day from  St.
Petersburg.              news from Pekin to  November   9th
               It gives
(our mail was only to October 14th). Peace had been
concluded, and the ratifications exchanged on Octo
ber 26th. The allied army left Pekin November 9th.
This really seems to be sure ; let us thank God for His
goodness. We had just before determined to take
another million in consequence of the winter occupa

Ition ! This is gone ; and never did get a million with
Igreater pleasure than surrender the chance of this
one.'

   To this letter the Duke replied :

  I' Your note was the first announcement we had of

the Chinese Peace, and cordially rejoiced with you on
the news. But the accounts of those horrible murders

Iand barbarities have made my blood rather boil against

the Chinese authorities, and wish to hear that some

1859-60]                  REFORM                 151

of the villains who perpetrated these crimes have been
Imade due

   ' What
          examples   of.        of the kindness  of the
          a curious    account

Chinese criminal prisoners ! suppose there is a great
difference of character between the native Chinese and
the ruling Tartar race.'

   Towards the close of the year 1859 the Cabinet was
engaged in the consideration of another Reform Bill.
Lord John Russell, who had particularly associated

himself with the interests of Reform, reinforced the

arguments of the Duke of Argyll and others, who had

long urged the importance of such a measure, and a

Cabinet Committee was formed to inquire into the

effects of a reduction of the borough franchise. As a
member of this Committee, the Duke was in frequent
correspondence with his colleagues. To Sir George

Grey he wrote on November 10th, 1859 :

I' think it clear that no step taken now can be a
resting-place, even for a few years, which leaves wholly
untouched the existing distribution of seats. Those
who propose a Bill of this kind do so avowedly on the
ground that by means of a lower franchise they will
Isucceed better in securing a sweeping disfranchisement
of existing constituencies.     don't feel quite sure that
*****half the question only.
they would succeed in this so easily as they expect,
Ibecause the small constituencies would be somewhat

strengthened. Still, think it would be a great evil
to bring in a Bill which is avowedly one dealing with

  I' If we could, should be disposed to go much further
Iin the redistribution of seats. am convinced that such

a redistribution might be made on a much larger scale

Iwith immense advantage to the character of the repre

sentative body. . . . But fear that Parliament is
not prepared for any extensive schemes of this kind.'

152 LOED PALMERSTON's SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxra

   On November 16th, 1859, the Duke wrote to Lord
Granville, who was then at Carlsbad :

' We had a first meeting of our Committee on Reform
                 Lewis*   hparsintta--keant   the sensible plan of
                                             least, an outline Bill,
             Bill put in
Iyesterday.

having a
which makes discussion more definite ; and think we

shall probably do pretty well, although there are some
strange symptoms of uncertainty, not to say infirmity,
of purpose in the Richmond direction. The character
of the present Parliament makes any good plan doubly
difficult.'

   The Duke appreciated the difficulties in the way,
not only of framing a good measure, but of passing any
measure ; and, as the event proved, his fears were
justified. He was active in promoting the Reform pro
posals in the Cabinet, and his correspondence at the
time showed how thoroughly he worked out the subject.

   The Bill when brought before the House proved

to be a moderate and simple scheme of Reform, pro
posing to lower the county franchise to £10, the borough
franchise to £6, and to make a redistribution of seats.

   The introduction of the Bill on March 1st by Lord
John Russell excited little interest.

   The second reading was moved on March 19th, when
Disraeli condemned the measure, which continued to
be debated languidly for a month or two. Finally, on

June 11th, Lord John Russell announced that the Bill

was to be withdrawn, but stated at the same time his
intention of dealing with the franchise at the earliest

possible period.
   Mr. Gladstone's Budget of 1860 was a very important

one, comprising as it did the repeal of the paper
duties and the removal of taxes on several articles of

               * Sir G. Cornewall Lewis was Home Secretary.

1859-60]     MR. COBDEN AND FRANCE                                   153

food. The financial arrangements for the year in
cluded a proposal for a commercial treaty with France,
which had been the subject of negotiation for some
months previously. The Duke was strongly in favour
of this project, as he considered that a commercial
arrangement would add to the mutual interests of the
nations and diminish the chances of war.

  I' should be inclined,' he wrote to Mr. Gladstone

(September 9th, 1859), ' to hope a good deal from any
measure which largely increased the commercial
dealings between France and England ' ; to which
Mr. Gladstone replied (September 12th) that the letter
had come in good time, for he had just had a visit from
Mr. Cobden on the same subject, and added :

   ' We have had a long walk and harmonious talk, and

I Ihe stays for the evening. Well, confess greatly

cling to the idea that something may and should be done
next year when the annuities fall in.'

   Mr. Cobden's visit to Hawarden resulted in his pro
ceeding, with the approval of Lord Palmerston, to
France, where he had a meeting with the eminent
French economists and Free Traders, Michel Chevalier,
M. Fould, and M. Rouher. He was also commanded

to St. Cloud, and in an interview with the Emperor

was successful in convincing him that such a treaty
would be beneficial to France and an ornament to his

reign.
   On December 24th, 1859, Mr. Gladstone wrote to the

Duke :

   ' Cobden  sheacsrerteainllythme acdleoswesatysiennsFer.ancIfe.he  This, you
know, is a
                                                                     succeeds,
what a service he will have performed ! Would you
object to his being made a Duke for it ? You see the
itch for nonsense is incurable.'

154 LORD PALMERSTON's SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

The mere rumour of the proposed international ar

rangement surprised people of the most various political

opinions, chiefly on the ground of its inconsistency

with our general policy towards France. The Duke
wrote to Mr. Gladstone on February 3rd, 1860 :

    ' There  is     amest--ory    going about town which has been
repeated     to                   that Gladstone now expresses un
                                   in
bounded      hcoisnftidraeinnce"  --a  the Emperor, even to acting
stoker in                              weak invention of the enemy,
but showing the direction of attack, and indicating the
danger, in the present state of the public mind, of
defending the treaty in any degree on a defence of the

Em' pIehroorl.d the two questions to be wholly irrespective
of each other.       The treaty is good                 in   itsoerlf,gowodh.etheIrt
the intentions      of the Emperor be                   bad
tends, in course of time, to found the relations of the
two countries on the felt interests of their respective
populations ; and the more precarious are the present
relations between the Governments, the more anxious
we should be to found those relations on a more solid

Iand durable basis.
    ' Therefore     saysho: ld"   Graham's antithesis        to be non
sense. He                         The treaty implies         confidence ;

your estimates and preparations imply suspicion."
   ' The treaty, in my view, is perfectly consistent with
tahninygsa.mouItnt    of  distrust in the               present condition of
                                                        imply confidence in
                    does  nI otthinnkecewsesasrhilayll  run considerable risk

the Emperor, and
Iif we do not steer entirely clear of this line of argument.
   ' don't mean to deny that the fact of the Emperor
signing such a treaty, and exposing himself to consider
Iable risk in France, does give me some confidence that he

means peace ; but would not rest a feather's weight
of 'aHrgauvmeenytouuproenadthaisreams aarkdaebfelencearotifclteheotnretahtey.treaty
in the Revue Contemporaine ? Violently hostile, it

makes some very important statements as to the pro

1859-60]  mr. Gladstone's bctdget                     155

tectionism of the Corps Legislatif, and, consequently,
of the danger the Emperor would have run if he had
not avoided their hostility by adopting the treaty
form.'

   On February 10th, 1860, Mr. Gladstone introduced
his Budget, in a speech of great eloquence. The Duke
had had frequent interviews with the Chancellor of the

Exchequer on the subject, and his opinion, expressed

long before the Budget was presented, was that it would
add greatly to the reputation of its author. A day or

two after the great Budget speech had been delivered,
Lord Carlisle wrote to the Duke :

' How right you were about the Budget ! I felt sure
I Ithat you were.think the whole thing a great glory,
and now, perhaps, have a foolish want of any mis
I Igiving. How envy those who heard G. ! was not
Iso wrong when told you he must be the next Premier,
perhaps after Johnny.'

   The Duke's opinion of the Budget is conveyed in a
letter to Mr. Gladstone :

I' You managed your task with infinite skill last night,
Ias all testified who heard you.  hope you are none the
worse. Already hear of members saying they would
Iprefer to keep the paper duty and get off the penny

income-tax.* But, as a whole, think the Budget will

Ibe carried. At the same time, the paper duty did not

tell in the House much. don't think that in the House
it is the most popular remission, despite the vote.'

   No one could have been more hearty in his congratu
lations than the Duke was, and no one was more zealous
in support of the whole project. The Budget and the
treaty were subjected to severe criticism in both

   * In the Budget it was proposed to add Id. to the income-tax.

156 LOED PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

Houses, and in the House of Lords the burden of their
defence fell mainly on the Duke, who spared no effort
to make himself master of all the details.

   In the debates that followed the Duke stood by

Mr. Gladstone throughout the thick of the fight.

Speaking on the Budget, he said :

I' am not willing to speak with bated breath either
Ihere or elsewhere of the  financial policy  opf rtihnecipGloev.ernIt
                           to be sound in
ment, which believe
proceeds, not on matter of experiment, but on the result
of actual experience. Measures precisely similar to
those which we are now recommending have contri
buted, in past years, to the comfort and contentment of
the people, to the simplicity and productiveness of the
financial system, to the creation of new rewards in
every branch of industry, and, by adding to the wealth
of England, they have likewise increased her military
power. We are therefore prepared to recommend these
measures to the adoption of the House, though we do
not at present ask for the expression of an opinion upon
them.'

   Replying to Lord Cran worth's attack on the com
mercial treaty with France, the Duke said :

   ' There are many prejudices against the Budget which
are connected solely with misapprehensions in respect
to that treaty. There is, especially, one great mis
understanding as to what has been called the political

aspect of the French treaty. In the earlier debates of

this session we were accused of sometimes denying
and at other times admitting that the treaty had a
political bearing. The simple truth is that, though it
had some political bearing, yet that was not of the

Ikind or nature which some noble Lords supposed.

say distinctly and emphatically that in drawing up that
treaty there was no intention to express any opinion,
nor even any feeling, in regard to the foreign policy

1859-60]  DIRECT AND INDIRECT TAXATION                                                157

either of the existing Government                ofItEnisglatrnude,  or of the
existing Government of France.                                         indeed,

that the private opinion of the remarkable man who
Inow presides over the French Empire is in favour of

Free Trade, but beyond that, say the opinions of the
French Government have nothing to do with the objects
of the treaty. The object of the treaty, in so far as it
was political at all, was simply to increase the commer
cial relations between the people of England and the
people of France, without the slightest reference to the
political relations between their respective Govern
ments, or to the foreign policy of either the one country

*****or of the other.
   ' Whatever may be the result of our policy as regards

the two Governments, we earnestly trust it will be the
foundation of more amicable relations and feelings

bet'wIteewn atsheontewoofpothpeulaotbiojencst.s  ...    right   honourable

                                                 of my
friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to gain a
revenue, not merely by the imposition of new taxes,
Ibut also by effecting a saving in the establishments of

the country. Now, have been informed by the officers
who preside over the Customs Department that, of the
duties which necessitate the employment of a skilled
and expensive class  of officers,                the silk duty  stands far
above all others.    And this                     for obvious   reasons --
because a large class of skilled officers have to be em
ployed in protecting the silk revenue by watching other
fabrics into which   silk enters,                bItutisodf ewsihraicbhleittodogeest  not
constitute the sole  material.                                                        rid
of that class of officers, but their services cannot be

Idispensed with unless the silk duties are repealed.
mention that as only one instance of the manner in
Iwhich these taxes have         selected. .
                         been   importance              .     .
   ' come to a point of  great
to the question of direct versus indirect                  with reference

                                                           taxation. It
is a very common error to suppose that because there

158 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

are many items in our Customs tariff, they have the
effect of dispersing the revenue over a great number of
Iarticles, and of thus broadening the basis on which our

indirect taxation rests. hold in my hand the amended

tariff of Mr. Gladstone's Budget. It has greatly
Ialarmed some noble Lords. There are only forty -eight

articles altogether retained in it. That fact, believe,
em"naHdk.oews "tihtWeehhnaadtairnagoef rrsemvatohnlueytiwoofnhaomlreyy  noble friends stand on
                                                                         measure !" they say.
                                                                        system of our indirect
taxation ! But have those noble Lords considered
from how many of the existing articles the great bulk
Iof our revenue is raised ?  have inquired into this
I Imatter, and the result, confess, surprised me.                       took
the whole Customs revenue for the year before last,
I1858. There were then about 420 articles on the tariff,

yielding a revenue of £23,299,570, and found that the
whole of that vast sum, with the exception of only
£850,000, was raised from eleven articles alone ! Is it,
then, very revolutionary to sweep from a long list of
articles some 370 which produce on an average very
little more than £2,000 apiece, and yet add in no in
considerable proportion to the total cost of collection ?
INow, how has Mr. Gladstone treated the eleven articles

which, as have shown, contribute all but a fractional
part of your entire Customs revenue ? He has
abolished    only two    of them, and                                   these among    the
             butter and   silk ; while at                               the same time   he
smallest --

has made one not unimportant addition to the number.
Among the various reductions made in recent years,
that which appears most to have failed in respect to
the replacement of revenue was the reduction of the
duty on coffee. Several reasons have been assigned
for this, but the principal one is that coffee has become
adulterated to a very large extent with chicory. Now,
so careful has Mr. Gladstone been, not only to strike
off unproductive duties, but to select for retention those
which really pay, and to build up others which appeared
to decay from causes capable of being removed, that

1859-60]               THE PAPER DUTIES                        159

he has endeavoured to aid the revenue from coffee by
                                 cahiyceoaryr ,--caanlcualmatoeudnt,toasyiethlde
imposing a new         duty on
from £90,000 to        £100,000

House will see, that will fully compensate for the dis
Iappearance from the tariff of many dozens of trumpery
articles hitherto included in it.  mention this case,
my Lords, as an instance of the care and the knowledge
                       Mr. Gladstone in his revision   of the  tariff
--disaplcaayreed   by  knowledge which stands in      marked    con
                  and
trast with the vague fears and loose assertions with
which my right honourable friend has been assailed.'

The central attack of the Opposition on the Budget

was directed against the proposed repeal of the

paper duties. This proposal, in accordance with the

procedure of the time, was made the subject of a
separate Bill, which passed the House of Commons,

but with dwindling majorities. When the measure was
sent to the Upper House, Lord Monteagle immediately

gave notice that he would move its rejection ; and on
the motion of the second reading by Lord Granville on
the 21st May, the Bill was rejected, after a long debate,

by a majority of eighty-nine. The Duke made an able

speech in its defence, from which an extract is given :

I' am not going to deny the legal power or right of
this House to refuse any Bill which may be sent up
Ifor your assent. Unlike, perhaps, most members of

this House, have never had the honour of belonging
to any other assembly, and my own feelings are as
warmly interested in maintaining the powers and
Iprivileges of this House as those of any other member
can be.           fully admit you have the legal power and
the legal right to refuse your assent to any Bill that
seeks it. But surely   legal power and   plreagcatilcer.ightItaries
wholly different from    constitutional
vain to deny that many, perhaps most, of those who
will support the amendment to-night are aiming at

160 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

the condemnation of a policy of which this is but a
single and almost the last remaining step. The repeal
of the paper duty stands on precisely the same grounds
Ias the repeal of the soap tax, the repeal of the glass
duty, and of the duty on bricks.        contend, therefore,
that you are aiming at the condemnation of a policy
which has been eminently successful, and which on
repeated occasions has received your own assent. But
Ithere are objections applicable to the paper duties

which did not apply to the other taxes to which have
alluded. Unlike almost any other tax, the paper duty
Ihtas                                   House of Commons.
        been twice condemned   by  the  abstract resolution,
       has been condemned     by   an
and afterwards by a Bill passing thruogh all its stages.
Surely this is a very strong reason why, in the exercise

of a wise discretion (to put it on the lowest ground),

Iyour. Lordships should not exercise your strictly legal

right. But there are grounds somewhat higher.
fully admit that there is no technical distinction be
tween rejecting a Bill imposing a tax and a Bill repeal
ing a tax. But every noble Lord must feel that it
does make a very serious substantial difference in
respect to an unusual exercise of power whether it
be exercised in relief or in the imposition of a burden
on the people. The very gist of my objection to such
a course is that the danger of it does not lie on technical
grounds ; it lies on substantial grounds. In opposing
the repeal of this duty you are going to the very heart
and root of the constitutional powers of the other
House of Parliament. You are not invading their
technical privileges ; you are not transgressing your
own technical privileges ; but in truth and in substance
you are striking at the very root of the constitutional
usage which has hitherto                          the   relations
between the two Houses.       Itregisulanteodt  that   this is a
money Bill merely. We have rejected many Bills
which involved taxation. But there is a plain dis
tinction between a mere money Bill and a Bill of supply.
There are money Bills of every kind and degree, from

1859-60]    SPEECH ON THE BUDGET                                    161

those partaking of the nature of a "tack" -- against
which this  oHwonuseprihvailsegaelswa--ysto              as an  invasion
of your                                      protested  which,    though
                                               others
Iinvolving taxation, involve also questions of general
policy.     believe if you examine the precedents
brought forward to-night by the noble and learned
Lord, it will be found that, although they were all
money Bills, not one of them was, in the proper sense
Iof the word, a Bill of supply.                     happened last week
Ito see the same list.               went with some care over each
I Iof them, and believe am correct in saying that not
one of them was in the nature of a supply Bill.
  I' The noble Lord made rather light of another circum

stance, which, though fully admit it has no technical
force     ionblitghaistionH.ouseIt,   constitutes
moral                                is true that,  surely a   very strong
                                                    as far as  the Govern

ment is concerned, they did not set the penny additional
income-tax as against the repeal of the paper duties ;
but it does so happen that in the House of Commons a
distinct motion was made on this subject by a distin
           member of  the            Opposition, and           important
guished    was taken   on             that occasion.    aInt   was then
division
decided that the additional penny of income-tax should
be imposed rather than that the repeal of the paper
duties should be abandoned. But if the House of

Commons had foreseen the decision your Lordships are
now called upon to pronounce, they might have taken
another course from that which they did take, not doubt
Iing that the usual practice of Parliament would be
observed.   do not say that is a technical objection to
your proceeding, yet surely it is but fair, when the House
of Commons came to a distinct and decided vote against
one tax as compared with another, we should consider
it as an additional obligation to decide the question
before us with very strict reference to the constitutional

practice of the two Houses.
             *****

'The noble and learned Lord who spoke at the
commencement of the evening indicated that the
vol. n.
                                                                11

162 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

popularity of the financial proposals of the Government

Iwas now somewhat on the wane. In answer to that

statement am perfectly prepared to admit that there
has, naturally enough, for some weeks past, been a
cessation of those songs of triumph which were chanted
throughout all the commercial cities of the country when
the scheme of the Government was first propounded,
                   from   the almost
        resulted          change in   universal apprecia
        value.    If any              public opinion with
Iandwhich
of its
tion
respect to it has since taken place, can ascribe that
Ichange only to misinformation as to certain failures

which, it is industriously circulated, though believe
without any foundation, are likely to arise in connection
with the commercial treaty with France. My own
belief, however, is that no such change has in reality
been brought about, and that if there be any apparent
difference in the sentiments now entertained by the
public as contrasted with those which at the outset
prevailed, in regard to the proposals of the Government,
that difference is to be attributed to the fact that the
people at large were confident that the passing of the
Budget was a thing perfectly secure. They were
animated by that confidence because they placed reliance
on that constitutional usage through which we are now
invited to break, and because they were actuated by a
spirit of faith in the proceedings of the Legislature,
Iwhich am afraid we shall, if we reject the Bill, be doing
Imuch to turn into a spirit of distrust.    may add, in
Ireply to the remarks of the noble and learned Lord

opposite, to which have just alluded, that during the
last week or two time has been afforded to individual

interests, some of which are injured by every great
scheme of reform, to work their way to the surface,
and to exhibit that apparent change in the current of
popular opinion in relation to proposals of the Govern
ment to which he has drawn our attention.'

   The rejection of the Paper Duties Bill by the House of
Lords was received with mingled feelings. The repeal of

1859-60]  FINANCIAL QUESTIONS  163

the duty was by no means a popular measure, but
the action of the House of Lords raised the important
constitutional question of the control of the House of
Commons over money Bills. The rejection of a proposal
to repeal was, Mr. Gladstone was ready to demonstrate,
equivalent to a reimposition. He protested against the
rejection of the Bill, in a speech in which he foreshadowed
the discomfiture of the House of Lords at no distant

date. This he accomplished in the next session, by
consolidating all money Bills into one measure, and

thus ingeniously offering the House the alternative of

accepting or rejecting the whole Budget.

   It was not only in this instance that the Duke afforded

Mr. Gladstone powerful assistance in matters of finance.

There were long debates between Lord Palmerston and

Mr. Gladstone on the subject of the increasing expendi
ture, and, in particular, expenditure on armaments.
Regarding the question of national defence, the Duke

endeavoured to bring about a compromise between
Mr. Gladstone and the Prime Minister, though not
altogether with success ; but his influence was of service
in keeping the Chancellor of the Exchequer from resigna
tion on more occasions than one.

   A Royal Commission, appointed in 1859, had reported

the following year that extensive works, involving large
expenditure, were necessary for the protection of our
arsenals, and it was proposed that the expenditure, some
nine millions, should be met by a loan to be repaid in

twenty years. Mr. Gladstone objected both to the pro
posed fortifications and to the manner of meeting the cost.

   During the whole session the Duke accepted the role
of peacemaker. He had many opportunities of dis
cussing the matter, as he and Mr. Gladstone frequently

met at Clieveden. In the Duke's diary he mentions some

                                                                                11--2

164 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

of the attempts he made to influence Mr. Gladstone on
these points :

   ' Walked with Gladstone . . . trying to persuade
him to some yielding.'

   ' Wrote to Palmerston about a compromise on fortifi
cat'ioDnrso.v' e with Gladstone towards home, trying to
persuade him to yield on the fortification question.'

   When Mr. Gladstone threatened to resign, the Duke
wrote to protest strongly (June 19th, 1860) :

MyI'
         dI ehaorpeGtoladbestaobnlee,to  attend the  next  Cabinet --
      '

a prospect which, under existing circumstances, do
look     forward   to with
The      more     think of
not                         pleasure.       matter,        the more
                            the whole
  I'
Ikeenly anxious am that your individual secession
Ifrom the Government should be avoided.                    do not
I Ithink speak merely selfishly when say this, although
it would undoubtedly deprive me of far the largest part
Iof my own interest and pleasure in the Government.

But feel much more strongly its injuriousness, not
so much to yourself individually, but to your position
Iand usefulness in public life.             ventured to say to you
Iat this place last year how strongly felt that your
powers were to a great extent thrown away and lost

Iwhen you were out of office, and never can tell you
Ihow invaluable have always felt them to be when
Iharnessed in the public service.

   ' The moral, of course, wish to impress is the duty,
if not to yourself, at least to others, to make every
concession which you feel to be at all within reach, to
         a compromise on this question.
Ieffect  have            written to         Palmerston   in the same
    '       He  again    to the one      I  showed you,  that fortify
sense.          replied

ing two only of our great dockyards was like bolting two

1859-60]  FORTIFICATION PROPOSALS                  165

Idoors and leaving half a dozen others open : to which
phasaovinethtserepodlfioecdaktyttahacrakdtstihnaertechaesnmeosstealr"veedsnoo--otrstahn"aatlooftghoeiunrsve,asiwnioaensr,emub5c0uh0t
other doors of invasion better for that purpose than the
dockyards ; but that, as the fortification of each dock
yard is a complete operation in itself, it cannot be said
that the immediate fortification of Plymouth and Ports
mouth falls short of the complete attainment of a most
important object, diminishing the remaining risks, and
limiting them to points comparatively unimportant ;
that with respect to Chatham, etc., the plan is con
fessedly but an incomplete one as regards all the
approaches to the capital, and not one in respect to
which we could say, The plan, the whole plan, and
Inothing  but the  plan."
          to make  any such  plan  of  compromise  possible,
   ' But
do hope you will come down with very definite pro
Iposals, and include Plymouth as well as Portsmouth.

In fact, suspect Plymouth is now far more open than
Portsmouth. You also once told me that you did not
entertain the same objection to the purchase of land
by loan that you entertain to defraying the cost of

works by loan. But if you ride a high horse, objecting
to the whole principle of making the great dockyards

Iinto strong places, am satisfied you will not be sup
I Iported by public feeling ; at least, own that cannot
see my way to any objection to such fortifications,
which would not tell against a slow expenditure from
votes, as strongly as against similar works executed
mo'rPerraaypiedxlycu. se my bothering you with such a screed,
and attribute it to my anxiety that you should not
again be lost to that position in the Government

I Iwhich regard as peculiarly your own, and which

consider it as a public calamity that you should
leave.
                                       ' Ever yo'uArsr, gyll.'

166 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxm

   In the end, a sort of compromise was arrived at in

the matter of the fortifications, under which the cost

was to be met by annuities extending over thirty years,

and the House sanctioned an immediate expenditure

of two millions in one year.

   The success of the Budget was imperilled by the great
expense of the Chinese War, which threatened entirely

to disorganize the finance of the year. The opponents
of the Chancellor of the Exchequer openly rejoiced at

his discomfiture, and even Mr. Gladstone himself wrote
to the Duke in a fit of depression, as if the whole scheme
of reduction had been a failure. The Duke, with a

truer perception of the proportion of things, replied on

September 8th, 1860 :

  I' was very glad to hear from you, and much inter
Iested in your retrospect of the session ; but think you

judge yourself with unnecessary severity on several

Ipoi'nItns. the first place,  do not think that either the
expense of the China War or the expense of the fortifica
tion scheme, even if both of these had been fully fore
seen, ought to have stopped your proposed remission
of taxation. These remissions were founded on a prin
ciple whose operation has now been fully tested and
ascertained, that operation being remunerative in
respect to revenue ; and if the two millions which fell
in from the long annuities afforded an opportunity of
Icarrying to completion a financial policy which has

proved to be so beneficial to the revenue, cannot see
why that opportunity should have been allowed to
Ipass because two extraordinary and temporary causes
of expenditure lay immediately ahead of us.  still
think that even if you had fully foreseen both these
causes, your course was right.'

   The war eventually proved less expensive than had
been anticipated ; the Chinese had to pay an indem

1859-60]              PROFESSOR OWEN                                                                 167

nity, and the Government had the substantial satisfac
tion of applying the excise duty on paper (renewed for
one year only) to meet the expenses of the war.

   On December 3rd, 1860, the Duke delivered his opening
address as President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Four years later Professor Owen wrote to congratulate
him on his closing Presidential Address to this Society,

quoting in his letter some sentences of the Duke's on
that occasion which he had especially admired :

                                                                  'Biutish Museum,
                                                                  ' 23rd December, 1864.
' My dear Duke,
          ' Your experience of the official demands for the
winding-up works of the year at this session in such an
organization as ours will      mofaktheeeximcupsoertfaonr tth"e Asdhdorretnssess"
of my acknowledgments
Iwith which you favoured me by an early copy. read
it carefully and comfortably by my fireside last night,
and felt under great obligations, as all equal students of
Nature will feel, to the clear and deep thinking writer.
Asesn' t"ehnaWcpeposerdnfssallwttohhiacsthucbshehcoowumlrdeitin"bgeaptiohntehemsgemarvtsuarn"ittsy:  of power,
        ""toTEohvoeefrrteyetnhariinetsgnmotahfisacttteiorsins.s"                                     of thought

are                                                                in Nature --no  jokes."           to  be
                                                                  done in Nature
     '                                                                              seems

    '

Idone, as it were, by knowing how to do it."

   ' But must refrain from jotting down much that
your address suggests, and conclude by confessing that
the only adequate end conceivable by me of the busi
ness of this planet is the evolution of powers and con
ditions available for the purposes of their Creator in
another and higher sphere of vital and intellectual
forces. One true soul, like one seed of corn that grows
--andforon"e  egg of           that develops, is a rare
              narrow  spawn                                                                          exception
                       is the  gate." But it pleases                                                 the Great
First Cause so to operate, and to our minds very slowly,

168 LORD PALMERSTON'S SECOND MINISTRY [chap. xxxiii

tghreadu" aflalyilu, rwese  m" ahyavseay,thpeatifeantetlyr.eseWrvheedthfeorr,  however,
                                                                               them by
Pusey may be another question.

   ' A happy Christmas to the circle at Rosneath is the
wish of your Grace's
                            ' Always truly,

                                  ' Richard Owen.'

                    CHAPTER XXXIV

                                                  1861-62

                      THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR

The outbreak of the American Civil War occurred early
in 1861. The feeling in England as regards the contro
versy was largely in favour of the cause of the Con
federate States. There were some, however, whose
sympathies were entirely with the North. Foremost
amongst these stood the Duke of Argyll, who main
tained throughout the whole course of the war his
strong conviction of the righteousness of the Federal
cause. This was based not only on his detestation of
slavery, but also, more profoundly, on the essentially
' unionist ' political principles which in later years led
him to oppose Mr. Gladstone. ' No Government,' he
said, ' had ever existed which could admit that right to
renounce allegiance to it which was claimed by the
Southern States.'

    The Duke, as he mentions in his ' Autobiography,'
had corresponded with several of the leading American
Abolitionists for some time previous to the date when
the victory of Lincoln at the polls became the signal for
the revolt of the slave States.

   On May 14th, 1861, the Duke wrote to Mr. Motley as
follows :

  I I' Since saw you last night have heard that the

French Government entirely concurs in the absolute

                                                                      169

170  THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR  [chap. xxxiv

necessity of admitting your " rebels " to the position

Iof "belligerents"; and reminds us of a curious fact,

which have not had time to verify, that when the
American colonies revolted from England we attempted
to treat their privateers as pirates. But we very soon
found this would be out of the question, and the English
Government acknowledged its own revolted colonies, as
they were then considered, as entitled to the rights of
a b' eTllhigiseriesnta. strange case. The truth is that the rights
and interests of humanity demand that the rules and
principles of some admitted law should be immediately
applied to all such contests, and the rules affecting and
defining the rights and duties of belligerents are the
only rules which prevent war from becoming massacre

Iand murder.

   ' don't think the neutral Governments of the world
have any choice in this matter. But how far the system
of privateering may be modified is a separate question.
Why should not your Government agree with the Paris
Convention, and abolish privateering ?'

   After the fall of Fort Sumter, President Lincoln de

clared the Southern ports to be in a state of blockade,
which he proceeded to enforce. This raised for the

consideration of the English Government the question
of the recognition of the Confederate States as belli
gerents, which is alluded to in the letter just quoted.
On May 6th, 1861, it was announced in the House of
Commons that this right was to be conceded to them.
The fact that the blockade cut off the supply of raw
cotton, on which Lancashire depended, helped to excite
a strong feeling in England in favour of the recognition
of the independence of the Southern States ; but the
Government declared its intention of maintaining ' a
strict and impartial neutrality '-- a resolution which

displeased both parties in America. The North, relying

1861-62]       QUESTION OF NEUTRALITY  171

on the traditional attitude of Great Britain towards

slavery, had looked for active sympathy ; and the

South, relying, on the other hand, on the expressions of
public opinion in this country, had confidently ex

pected recognition as a sovereign and independent

State. The North forgot that as yet war was only being
waged to prevent secession, and the South failed to

realize that rebels cannot achieve a position of indepen

dence until they are successful.
   At first success seemed to crown the Southern arms,

and the rout of the Northern levies at Bull Run on
July 21st, 1861, increased the desire in England for the
recognition of the South. The feeling soon became so
strong that some members of the Cabinet wavered in

their opinion as to the advisability of maintaining a
strict neutrality. Chief among those who stood firm
upon this point were Lord John Russell and the Duke
of Argyll. Lord John wrote to the Duke on Septem
ber 13th, 1861 :

  I' have no intention of recognising  ItfhetheSoUutnhieternd

Confederacy for a long time to come.
IStates utterly fail in subduing them, a question will

then arise as to what is to be done. should think that
in April of next year we shall be able to judge on
which side, conquest or independence, the probabilities
lie. . . .'

  In a letter to Mr. Gladstone of August 23rd, 1861,

the Duke alludes to the grounds of his adherence to the

cause of the North :

I' Have you seen a letter from Mrs. Stowe to Lord
Shaftesbury ?  think it good ; but she fails to see,
what is surely obvious on her own statement, that the
North is not entitled to claim all the sympathy which
belongs to a cause which they do not avow, and which

172       THE AMEKICAN CrVIL WAR                 [ohap. xxxiv

is promoted only as an indirect consequence of a contest
which, on their side, at least, is waged for other objects

Iand on other grounds. Still, agree with her that that
Icause is really and substantially at stake, and take

my side accordingly.'

     From Mr. Motley, Boston {June 2&th, 1861).

I' My dear Duke,

       ' remember that you expressed a wish to hear a
Iword from me as to my impressions on residing in this
country.  consider it a privilege to be allowed to do
so. . . . You will perhaps not have forgotten that on

Ithe last occasion when had the pleasure of seeing the

IDuchess and yourself at Campden Hill expressed my
fears that a rupture between our two countries was not

Ian impossible event, and that regarded such a con
Itingency with greater horror than did even the civil
war already existing at home. . .
   ' There is no need of my saying  .  word  to  you  of  my

                                    a

love and veneration for England, of my deep respect
for the English character, for the very name of Britain.

A war between the American Republic and the British
Empire seems to me a calamity too awful to contem
plate. Ruin and desolation to at least one whole
generation of men would be the results to my own
country ; triumph to the lovers of despotism and
to the despisers of national self-government, despair
*****to the hearts of all who cherish human freedom, would
be the consequence to the world at large. Its dis
I I IkanstorowustheaftfeIctsamupaodndrEenssgilnagndone
          will not discuss,                           for
           in whose heart                               can
find entire sympathy on this great occasion.

  I' Never did feel more intense gratitude for the friend

ship, very far above my deserts, which has been accorded

I Ito me in England than do now, when, perhaps,

may be the instrument, in however limited a degree, of

promoting a more friendly feeling between the two

*****countries.
1861-62]         LETTER FROM MR. MOTLEY                         173

    ' Men did not wish assistance. They would have scorned
material aid. But they did expect sympathy. They
           thtoatsasoym, e"  voice in high  places would have been
thought                      We are sorry   for your trials ; we are
lifted up
compelled to look on with folded arms, but your cause
is noble.   Our  hearts are  --wfiitrhst,yotou.     You         right in
resolving  upon  two things                               are    farther
                                                 prevent   the
extension of the system of African slavery, which you
had the constitutional power of doing ; and, secondly,
to maintain your nationality, your unity, which is all
that saves you from anarchy and barbarism. We know
that the conspirators and traitors, although noisy,
dangerous, and desperate, are comparatively few in
number, and that they cannot hope long to cope with
*****Government. . . .
the overwhelming power of the Government." Instead
of  all this, there came denunciations of        the wickedness
of                                               forced upon the
    civil war --as if the war had not been

    ' The cause of this rebellion is slavery. Already one
great step in advance has been taken. Slavery will
never make another inch of progress on this continent.
Slavery is dethroned for ever from the dominion which
it has                     over American affairs for
          eIxtermcisuesdt  remain a local, municipal      these forty
years.                                                     institution
henceforth, and the attempt to make it national, to
spread it over the territories and over the free States,
has been completely and for ever foiled. But there
is no intention of interfering with it in the States
where it constitutionally exists, because to confiscate
£400,000,000 sterling of property would be a stu
pendous crime, and to make such a compensation
would be an impossibility. We have gone to war to
maintain the constitution in its integrity, because we
believe that, with a few trifling modifications, it would be

174            THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAS                             [chap. xxxiv

difficult to improve upon it at present. But if the
question be death to the republic or death to slavery, if

the conspiracy makes a foreign alliance or protracts the

anarchy and civil war into which it has plunged us beyond
a reasonable time, then the great law of self-defence
will cause that sword to be drawn, the unsheathing of

which causes us all to shudder.

  I I' Observe that am not giving my own opinions, but

am communicating to you what is the deliberate con

Iviction of the most intelligent and the most influential

men with whom speak as to the necessary sequence
of causes and effects. . . .'

   In a speech to his tenantry in October, 1861, the Duke

compared the secession of the South to the habits of

I' a curious animal in Loch Fyne which have some
times dredged up from the bottom of the sea, and which

performs the most    extraordinary,     innocent                   and able
acts of suicide and  self-destruction.                            a peculiar
                                           It is
kind of star-fish, which, when brought up from the
bottom of the water, and when any attempt is made
to take hold of it, immediately throws off all its arms,
its very centre breaks up, and nothing remains of one
of the most beautiful forms in nature but a thousand
wriggling fragments. Such, undoubtedly, would have
been thefate of the American Union its Government
had  admitted  is iswhatsis called the.right^of secession.
We   ought to  admit, in fairness to the Americans,                   ...
                     if
                        it                                            that
there are some things worth fighting for, and that
                         is I

                                  a if
                                                             ^if
national existence one of these. And then, we look
                                                                  if

                                                                     I

                                                                                is
at the matter from the Southern point of view, difficult
as may be for us to do so, must say also that am
it

not surprised at their conduct, they believe, as they
loudly proclaim that they do believe, that slavery
not an evil which to be tolerated only and brought to
an end as soon as possible, but divine institution for
the benefit of mankind, to be maintained and, possible,
                                                                  if

extended, and which,  assailed even in a single

1861-62]          SPEECH AT INVERARAY                         175

outpost, must be defended to the death-- then, even
though the citadel of slavery be not assailed, but only
an important outwork, it is but natural that the South
should rise in its defence. But, of course, in this, as in
all other revolutions, those who take part in them must
be judged finally by the moral verdict of mankind upon
the justice of the course which they have risen to assert.
   ' But, whatever may be our private sympathies, we,
as a nation, must take no part whatever in the contest.
Most earnestly do we trust and pray that it may be

Ibrought to a speedy end ; yet confess that there is
Ianother wish which, think, in our minds ought to
stand even before this one, and that is the wish that
the end of this war, whenever it does come, be it soon or
                            as shall be worth the sacrifice
late,  comsat--y  be such  shall tend to the civilization of  and
the               such as                                     the

world, and promote the causes of human freedom.'

This speech was very heartily welcomed by many in

the Northern States, as an assurance of sympathy and

as a sound expression of opinion on the political principle

involved. The Duke received many letters of thanks.

Of these, the following from Mr. Motley is of chief

interest :

                           'Legation of the United States

                           of America at Vienna,
                                              ' mh November, 1861.
I' My dear Duke,
          ' The day after my arrival in this place had the
great pleasure of reading your admirable remarks in
regard to our affairs in the course of your eloquent
speech to your friends and tenants at Inveraray.

   ' You may imagine with what a thrill of delight we

*****read such noble words coming from such a source.
   ' As you so well        ssaaiyd--ita--nd"  alone   among English
statesmen you have                            there  are some things

worth fighting for, and national existence is one of

176  THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                   [chap. iiht

Ithese." It is a pleasure to me to write to you on the

subject, because know that you look upon this dread
...epoch in America  wyoituhr "stpNheeoecmhe,aorrn"eewsttrenereemsseenvdeaornusdsubirsmessuitpeteescd,"t

which it deserves.

to quote again from
to the dread arbitrament of war than those which are
now submitted to it upon the American continent."
For observe, this word "secession" is a sham. The
South, foiled in its attempt to frighten the Free States
out of electing the  --iat nnotoinst laitnvheeorrydbeaersxitstoenogsfeitosnolautvceaorfnydt.hideaAtUelnliloatnhset,
November, seceded
but to reconstruct
States were invited to join the new confederacy, whose
corner-stone was slavery, and it was confidently ex
pected by the South that all but New England would do
so within six months. Thus, in place of the old Union
was to be a new United States, with slavery for the law
*****of the whole land, and all of them slave States ; while

the hated New England was to be thrust out into Canada,
or held as a conquered province, as might seem most
advisable to the slave-holders. To accomplish this
great scheme the slave-holders went to war.
I' firmly believe that all that is noblest and truest
in the noble English heart feels for America in this the
hour of its fiery trial. We shall go through the ordeal
and come out purified, but we shall sacrifice vast
treasure, and drain much of our best and dearest blood.
But the prize will be worth the sacrifice, and a people
     only be redeemed by suffering.
     Meantime, earnestly trust and
Ican'                                believe  that  your
                               acnadlamtailteiensts--wailwl abrebuestewdeetno
own great personal influence
prevent that most dreadful of
America and England.'

   The Duke started for the Continent on Novem

ber 22nd, 1861, with the Duchess and some of his family.
Travelling by Boulogne to Paris, and breaking the

1861-62]             MENTONE                                         177

journey at Lyons, Avignon, and Toulon, they arrived
at Cannes on December 3rd. After a few days spent

there, the journey was continued by carriage to Nice
and Mentone.

   From Boulogne the Duke wrote to Mr. Motley as
follows (November 22nd, 1861) :

' We are on our way to Genoa to escape the depth of
Iwinter in England.  received your very kind letter
Ilast night before left the old country, and am very
glad to hear that my speech has afforded you any
Isatisfaction.  considered many of the speeches made
Iin England so unfair that thought it was due to
America to point out that the war, whatever may be
the prospects of its duration or of its success, was at
least a war for important objects, and, indeed, a matter
of necessity for the Federal Government. . . .'

          To Mr. Gladstone {December 10th, 1861).

                                                    ' Mentone.
   ' What a delicious place and climate we are now
enjoying ! Mural precipices of limestone rise high
overhead, falling down into lower hills covered with
olives of noble growth, and gardens of orange and lemon.
We have just returned from a drive to Monaco, the

King of which we met on the road. It is quite a place

of fairy beauty. The road to it is along the almost
precipitous sides of a mountain, but every inch of soil
Isupported by terraces growing the finest olive and

carrouba trees ever saw, with immense quantities of
lemon and orange. Below, one looks into the clear blue
water of the Mediterranean. On the little promontory
which supports the town the precipitous sides are cut
into little walks, steps, and terraces full of the aloe,
Icactus, and red geranium in full flower.           think this
Iplace

coast.
by far    itshebomreodst--cahtarlmeainstg,    have  --yebtysetehnis  on this
   One                                      we are                     bit of

purely Italian country being now French. The people
vol. n.
                                                    12

178  THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                             [chap. xxxiV

shrug their shoulders when one asks them if they
approve. At Nice the popular language seems to be
French, but here it is pure Italian. . . . We intend
to go to Genoa on the 14th and to Turin on the 17th.
Next day we hope to be joined by our boys from Eton.

I had intended to go home with them slowly along this
I Idelicious coast, but now think can do no more
than accompany them to Genoa, and then go back
over the Mont Cenis to England, leaving the Duchess
Ito take the homeward route at leisure along the coast.

   have had a very bad cold for the last two or three
Idays, but hope to be fit for the journey home from Turin.
   should not like being away when the discussions arise
on the American reply. Pray write to me either to
IGenoa or Turin, telling me how matters stand, and
your own impression.        am relieved to hear to-day
from the Duchess of Sutherland that you seem in good
heart as to averting war.
   ' War with America is    sIutchinvaolcvaelsamniotyt   that we must
do all we can to avoid it.                              only ourselves,

but all our North American colonies.'

   The second critical difficulty with which the English
Administration was confronted, arising out of the
American Civil War, was what came to be known as
' the Trent affair ' --the seizure of certain Confederate

Envoys on board an English vessel. These men, Slidel
and Mason, had been charged by the seceding States
with a mission to the European Powers, from whom
they were to attempt to obtain international recog
nition of the rebels. Having embarked on the Trent
at Havanna, they were taken prisoners on November 8,
1861, by Captain Wilkes of the U.S. sloop San Jacinto,
in contempt of the fact that they were sailing under
the red ensign. The action of Wilkes was at once

pronounced illegal by Britain, and immediate apology
and release were demanded.

1861-62]        THE ' TRENT' AFFAIR                                     179

Unfortunately, however, the excited Americans did

not at first see the matter in the same light. Captain

Wilkes was thanked by the House of Representatives,

and became a popular hero. The British Government
therefore thought it advisable to prepare for war, and

troops were hastily despatched to Canada.

The Duke was at Avignon when the news of the

Trent affair reached him. He immediately wrote to

Mr. Gladstone (November 29th, 1861) :

  I' am all against submitting to any clear breach of
Iinternational law, such as can hardly doubt this has
been. Even the doctrine of contraband of war, as
applicable to civilian passengers, would surely not
apply in the case of a vessel going away from both of

Ithe belligerent Powers.     that  you  will  send  me  a               line
    '  write chiefly to beg
to say how it is decided that we are to act.'

     From Mr. Gladstone {December 3rd, 1861).

I' must write to you in haste, and let all antiquities,
scenery and the like, and all good wishes and even
inquiries about health and well
   ' The Cabinet determined on     doing, stand over.

                                   Friday to ask repara
tion, and on Saturday they agreed to two despatches
to Lord Lyons, of which the one recited the facts,
stated we could not but suppose the American Govern
ment would of itself be desirous to afford us repara
tion, and said*****seven days if the demands are not complied with.'
Commissioners   thraetstoinredanytocasBeritwieshmupsrtotheacvtieon(,1)  the
                                                                        and
(2) an apology or expression of regret. The second of
these despatches desired Lyons to come away within

          To Mr. Gladstone {December 1th, 1861). ' Nice.

  ' I got your letter yesterday at Cannes. The tele

grams in the English and French papers have made

                                                                                         12--2

180                      THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                 [chap. xxxiv

me sure as to the course which the Government would
take, and must take. The latter reconciled me in

Isome degree to my absence, because, so far as can
Isee, we could not possibly submit, and do not think
that our resistance could  tIafkesuacnhyamn iladcetr   or more pro
crastinating expression.
mitted by the San Jacinto be allowed,                 Iassetehantotchoimng
which would prevent any European Government
seizing on board of our ships any refugees from their
revolted provinces, who might be coming to England
(as so many do) to excite popular sympathy with their
cause. Kossuth,          BfroitrishexamMpeldei,tercraanmeeanfromsteaHmuenrg.aryI,f
probably in a
Captain Wilkes be right, an Austrian frigate from
T"rcieosntterabmaingdht  have taken  him       of the packet
                         of war." '       out                   as

To this letter Mr. Gladstone replied on Decem

ber 11th :

I' am very glad to hear that you mean to come
home    amftoemr enCthriasfttmerasC. hrisLtemtasmeDaayd.viseIt  you not to
lose a                                                          is perfectly
Ipossible, indeed, that we may not have the reply of

the American Government until (as far as under
stand) about the last day of the month. But this is
on the supposition of their not sending the reply until
the term of seven days has expired.'

   On December 20th the Duke wrote to Mr. Glad
stone :

  ' It is quite clear that if the American Government

are carried by the votes of popular passions around
them into a war with us on the Trent affair, it will be
against their wish and desire. Seward desired Adams
to say that Wilkes had acted without orders, and the
Government had given no approval, waiting to know
first what we thought of the transaction.

   ' Could anything show more clearly that they desired

1861-62]  THE ' TRENT ' AND ' SAN JACINTO '                  181

to avoid collision,   to keep open a   door for their own
                      door has since                         it will
retreat ? If that    by the action of  been  pecolopsleed,"
                                       the                   out of
have been closed
doors." Yet, of course, we have to deal with ultimate

decisions, not with half-formed intentions. Neverthe
less, the clear absence of any previous intention to
offend ought a little to be remembered in our action,
in any way consistent with the maintenance of an

essential principle.'

          To Mr. Gladstone {January 1st, 1862).

   ' No one  feels more strongly than I      daoct.theIntdoetaeld,imI
possibility
             of submitting to Wilkes'
have all along taken a stronger and less technical
objection than the English Press generally, agreeing
with the French argument that a vessel plying between
neutral ports cannot contain contraband of war at all,
and that packets such as the Trent must be held free
from seizure   by any                Power.
   ' The news   by the  belligerent  good.   Congress        seems

                         Africa is
to be alarmed, and though voting thanks personally
to Wilkes on the score of zeal and good intentions, has
Ideclined to pledge  itself to the legality of  his  act.    This
   apprehend to be    virtually the meaning      of  what    they

Ihave done.

   ' rejoice, of course, not merely in the prospect of
peace, but specially in any loophole of escape out of a
war in which nolens volens we should have been the
ally of the Confederates.'

   To Mr. Motley the Duke wrote from Cannes (Decem

ber 5th, 1861) :

I' We have heard this wretched news of the San
Jacinto and the Trent.  have always told you that,

however unsympathetic the English people and Press
may have been to the American Government, there
was no danger of a quarrel coming from us, but that

182          THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR            [chap, xxxiv

the danger lay in your Government doing something
at variance with the law of nations and rights of
neutrals. So it has been. As regards municipal law,
the Government has perhaps been compelled by sheer
necessity to override it by military force ; but as
Iregards international law, Seward ought to have been
more than usually scrupulous.  can't conceive that
your Government will be so foolish as to drive us into
a quarrel about this absurd seizure of men whom it
will have done them no good whatever to have caught.'

   Wiser counsels, however, soon prevailed in the

United States. The action of Wilkes was recognised
to be wholly indefensible, and the Confederate Envoys
were released on New Year's Day, 1862, and sailed
immediately for Europe. The Duke on January 8th
wrote to congratulate Mr. Motley on this fortunate
release from the menace of war :

*****' A few hours ago we received, to our great joy, the
I Itelegram giving us assurance of peace with your
Government.  am sure need not tell you how
sincere our joy has been, and all the greater as the
previous accounts had seemed very hopeless.

  I' As regards the merits of the Trent affair, hear

that Sumner had early expressed privately his agree
ment with the verdict at once given by the Prince de
Joinville that the arrest was wholly illegal.

IAthve'igFnrFooremnn, cIthhae--lwftiahrysastt
             moment, when wrote to you from
             took the broad ground adopted by
              a neutral vessel going from one
neutral port to another, bond fide, cannot be subject to
Iarrest at all, else no refugee would be safe anywhere

in the world. This is so clear that cannot conceive
any American disputing it, because the American
Government would never have allowed its own vessels

1861-62]  DEATH OF THE PRINCE CONSORT                         183

Jttoooionbkeviivlnlieomlatytoeoldektutnepdrreetrcoisseyimloyuil--atrhtechiercsuacmamseestaoinlflcueKssot.rsastuiotIhnhepatahrsatshtinagtI

from Hungary in a Mediterranean packet. Under the
principle of Captain Wilkes he would have been
arrestable by an Austrian             ship of war.
   ' And  nI owfindwitlhl eitidbeea  peace, or only a
truce ?                              rooted in many     temporary
                                                       minds here

Ithat

Such
your      Gisovienrcnomnceenivtabmleea--nt  to force us into  a war.
 folly                                      mean the folly    of be

Ilieving this ; but the converse belief is quite as strong

on your side of the water, and hold it to be equally
groundless. There is much in the popular language

Ihere, as well as there, with which have no sort of
Isympathy ; but have all along said that the only
danger of war arose from the possible recklessness of
the American Government in a time of intense excite

Iment.            don't write to scold either my own

   ' However,
countrymen or yours for their respective follies, but
Ito tell you what a relief the news of to-day has been

to us, and how sincerely trust and pray that this
Isharp passage and narrow strait of danger may remove
many dangers for the future.                see that your Press
for the most part denounced us, and declared that
vengeance is only postponed. But when the American
Ipeople have had time to know the unanimous verdict

of impartial Governments, have no doubt this feeling
will pass away.'

   The Duke's return from the Continent was accele

rated by the sad tidings of the death of the Prince
Consort on December 14th, 1861. This unexpected
blow which had fallen on the Queen and country was
deeply felt by the Duke, not only on account of his
intense sympathy with his Sovereign, but because of
his high appreciation of the great abilities of the Prince,
and the admiration he felt for his beautiful character

184              THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                [chap. xxxiv

and stainless life. In a letter at this time the Duke
wrote : ' The whole nation is mourning as it never

mourned before '; and referring to his last interview

with the Prince, which had taken place after a Privy

Council at Windsor, shortly before he left England, he
writes of the ' great kindness of the Prince Consort's
manner ' to him on that occasion, and adds : ' The

extraordinary beauty and sweetness of his parting

smile will remain engraved on my memory for ever.'

The Duke often spoke of the many interesting con

versations he had enjoyed with the Prince, which

had greatly impressed him with the extent and ver
satility of His Royal Highness's knowledge and in

formation. The Prince had also corresponded with
him on a variety of subjects --literary, scientific, and

political. From these letters the following extracts

are taken :                                   ' Balmoral,

I' MY DEAR DUKE,                     'September 20th, 1858.

     ' have to thank you for the kind transmission
Yof your article on Hugh Miller, the perusal of which
has given me the greatest pleasure.           ou have enabled
your reader quite to identify himself with your hero
and to appreciate the peculiarity of his talent by the
jud' icI ioaums  extracts from his   works.
                 glad to hear that  you were  pleased  with  your
visit to Berlin. The Princess had spoken to us of the

pleasure it had given her.
                 *****
                 ' Believe me always, yours truly.

                                                     ' Albert.'

                                              ' Balmoral,
                                              ' 0ctober m> 1859-
' My dear Duke,
     ' The paper which you have sent me has very
much interested me. You seem to have absolutely

1861-62]                                BALMORAL                            185

mastered the nature of the birds' flight, and the causes
which stand in the  way of              afeorlilaolwneda.vigaItioanmsuncocet edsiunrge
on the principles   as yet
whether the flight of some insects would not throw
baededtilteios--naflorliignhsttanocne,                   Take the heavy
                                        the question.    etc. Their wings
                                        the cockchafer,

are very small in proportion to the body ; the body is
very heavy ; they have no tail, no plumage, nothing to
support them in the air but muscular action ; their
flying-wings carry, when expanded, very heavy cover
ings, and yet they fly very fast and with great force.
The action of their wings is certainly perpendicular,
but their power is obtained by velocity of stroke.
Yo'uWsehoaurled   follow up             your
                 starting in            half  theory.    for  the  top  of  Ben
                                              an hour
Muich-Dhui ; the weather looks promising. We cannot
rise much higher in these isles, unless we are supported
by an aerial machine !
                                              ' Ever yours truly,

                                                              · Albert.'

   Early in May, 1862, the Duke went to Balmoral as
Minister in attendance upon the Queen. Shortly after
his arrival he wrote to Mr. Gladstone in answer to his

inquiries about Her Majesty :

  I I' thought the Queen more low than when saw
Iher in February at Osborne. When first went in
Iand asked Her   --Mmaejeresltyy         how             was,      she seemed
                                        shook     she    head.
unable to speak                                   her               But in the
course of the hour was with her she was able to talk
with even some eagerness. She spoke of the many
Ithings sent to her with the kindest intentions which

were but poor comfort, and hear from others that
one may easily say things which go against her, even
when one least suspects it. This makes one's work in
talking difficult and delicate. Out of doors here she
says she feels soothed, but the house is most trying

186             THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR         [chap. xxxiv

to her, associated solely with days of happiness, and
of his happiness especially. She says she feels borne
down by its very atmosphere. How can one get oil
or   wine to  pour into such wounds    ashethr essepi?ritsT--hethree
is   but one   thing which tells upon

hope of reunion ; and all that may enter in by that
            along with   that                                  with
           She said one  thing                                   am
Idoor, and

pleasure.
                                hsoopet,ouicshirnegcleyiv:ed"
sure they [the dead] see our sorrow, but they see it
Ias we see the sorrows of children. They see the end
at the same time."  spoke to her of the infinitesimal
shortness of our life as yet compatible with its reality
iaInnhdMavagecremsaeitnlnlatenshse,frrottomo-wdMahyrics.hsoBmshreoewvrneeirsnypgo'snstdrie"kdinLagvsetlirnyPeosheemqausrot"tiel--yd.

"De Profundis," the lament of which is exactly the
language of the Queen, and ending by a beautiful
verse of thanksgiving. After all, what one gives her
must have some relation to her own present frame of
mind. . . . Dr. Robertson (the factor here) has just
been to me, saying that he hears the Queen has had a
day of the deepest waters to go through, and the
Princess Alice is quite knocked up. The Queen is
now, however, out driving, and when out, the Duchess
of Athole tells me, she seems to enjoy it. How humble
and truthful she is ! Surely the comforts and consola
tions of His Spirit will come in time to this most
broken heart.'

     To Mr. Gladstone {May 1th, 1862).
  ' When I saw the Queen on Saturday last she spoke

to me of the Countess Bliicher as one who was the
greatest comfort to her, and said she would show me

Isome things sent to her by the Countess. These
was anxious to see, it being clear from the way she
     that     the influence was considerable.
     was       therefore with the greatest
Ispo' kIet
                                               pleasure
found that the papers the Queen sent me were quite
excellent. One was simply a transcription of a passage

1861-62]     QUEEN VICTORIA                                187

from Butler's " Analogy," but the other was apparently
by the Countess herself, and was thoroughly simple
and thoroughly Christian, founding all it held out in
respect to the future world on our Lord's words, direct
or indirect, and not on metaphysical reasoning of any
Isort or kind.

   ' returned them to the Queen with a letter ex
pressing pleasure and gratification in finding that these
papers had afforded her so much comfort.
   ' Last night, after dinner,                   sent for
                                the   QIueheand  yet seen  me,
Iand thought her far better     than                       her.
I did not wait to let her talk about herself, but led the
Iconversation at once to the hills, birds, and waterfalls

   had seen during the day, and in a few minutes she
was talking quite cheerfully, with interest and (at
least) momentary enjoyment, constantly referring to
her husband, the birds he liked, the roads he had
made, his speeches, etc., but all as if he were still
Iwith her, and with the sweetest smiles of              grateful
memory -- a most enviable power !                never  saw it,

even among the poor, in the same degree.'

          To Mr. Gladstone {May lift, 1862).

  I' have been with the Queen for upwards of an
Ihour to-day, and do think there is perceptible im
provement. She was much moved after the service,
but was calm and even cheerful in her long conversa
tion with me. The talk with the country people and

Ihis favourite gillies, and the country itself are, think,
soothing to her. Her health, Dr. Jenner tells me, is
much better than when she came. She was very
nervous before the journey. This is why she felt
she could not see Canning. She was both unwell
Iand low.
    ' Since  wrote to you, besides my talks with her,
Ishe sent me down one day a long and most touching

letter, which shall show you when we meet. Part
of it is an injunction to make her views known on the

188            THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR  [chap. hut

Iimpossibility of ever joining in the " frivolities of a
Court."        replied to her in a way to indicate that
the love borne to her by her people is one so un
common, and so valuable to them and for them,
that a response to it, in some form or other, by allow
ing her people to see her and testify their feelings,
would be some day one of her public duties. This
was very guardedly expressed, but the drift was clear,
and she sent me a message which showed that she
liked being reminded of a sympathy and affection of
which the Prince was proud, and which she herself

appreciates.'

   A letter from Mr. Richard Cobden to the Duke is

an evidence of the sympathy felt for the Queen by
her subjects of all shades of thought and opinion, and
shows a touching appreciation of Her Majesty's posi
tion in the years following the death of the Prince
Consort :

   ' Never was Her Majesty more beloved than now by
those whose devotion is her real strength, and the

knowledge of which, if made known to her, ought to

I Ibe her great consolation. For myself, the most dis

interested of courtiers, never knew how loyal was

Iuntil saw the Queen, in her great sorrow, visiting

hospitals and poorhouses, offering sympathy to indi
vidual suffering and rebuking cruel amusements,
whilst all the while she is unequal to the pageantries
of her office, which a less earnest nature would, under
the plea of duty, have flown to for distraction.'

   During the spring and summer of 1862 the
American Civil War continued to engross attention.
The Southern States were, on the whole, victorious ;

but they were unable to follow up their successes, and
the final issue remained uncertain.

   The success of the South was received with acclama
tion by the majority of the British people, but it

1861-62]           EFFECT ON BRITISH INDUSTRIES                         189

gradually became evident that the struggle was one
in which the mastery would fall into the hands of the

side which could longest support the dreadful waste
in blood and treasure of a devastating and protracted
civil war. As soon as it was certain that the conflict

could not be decided by a few critical engagements,
there remained the inevitable conclusion that the

resources and population of the North must eventually

overwhelm the Confederate cause.

   In a letter to Mr. Gladstone, April 29th, 1862,

referring to the destitution in England caused by the
war in America, the Duke points out the effect of the

war on British industries :

  I' How

war tells
             oddly the American     (just    and righteous              i!t)
             in different ways !   heard     yesterday that
Iwas telling severely in lowering the price of cheese.
supposed           by the withdrawal of the  Naorertheeartnenm"ardkoewtn?
NSooutthat"           The Northern cheeses
             all.                            be so eaten now.
              in    general, but they can't
          --Ncooratrhseernbuctheeloswes-praicreeds, enctheoavper
So the                                                              to  Ennagsltayn--d
instead                                                           and
and so they lower the price of the products of our
good rainy pastures.
   ' Not even this sad effect, any more than the loss
                                   for a new                      nation whose
o"f   cotton, makes    me anxious
     corner-stone is  slavery."
  I I' By-the-by,

read it what
                   youhacvoeuldbeemneawnonbdyerisnagyingevetrhastinc"ewe
have no confidence in free         institutions being estab
                                   seems to me that free
lished by the sword." It
institutions have hardly ever been established except
by the help of the sword at some stage or other. They
Iwere so in this country, as well as in many, many
others ; and       have a firm conviction    Athmaet ritchae--swwoorrdk
is doing good      and solid work now in
which it behoved to be done, as Carlyle would say.'

190         THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                             [chap. xxxiv

   In spite of the terrible privation caused by the
cotton famine, the working men of Britain were

generally in favour of the North. Among statesmen

there were, besides the Duke of Argyll, some warm

champions of the anti-slavery cause, such as Mr.
Cobden, Mr. John Bright, Mr. John Stuart Mill, and

Sir George Lewis. At the same time, the South had
many sympathizers, and it was not until General Lee

had surrendered to the Federal arms that many of
them would admit that the North was really vic
torious. Prior to that event the Government was

constantly petitioned to acknowledge the independence
of the Confederate States, but the Ministry was firm,
and maintained a strict neutrality. To Mr. Gladstone,

on May 13th, 1862, the Duke wrote :

'Your corrected speech in re America has nothing
in it which is not true, in a sense ; but then that sense
appears to me to be irrelevant, and to pass by altogether
t"heFreeesseinnstitaitlutiisosnuses   of the                   in America.
                                     imposed  great   contest   unprepared
                                                on   a people
to receive them": all such phrases have a very distant
application to the position of slavery in the United
States.

   ' That this war is having a powerful, a daily increas
ing effect on the hold of slavery over opinion in America
is, in my judgment, a fact so evident, and is so natural
Iand so necessary a consequence of the whole circum

stances, that cannot understand its being questioned.
The war, however, is not waged directly for this object,
neither does it need this as a justification. The doc
trine of secession is simply the doctrine of anarchy;
its hand is against every Government, and the hand of

ietv. ery"  Government    must be, and               ought  to be,  against
            Them's my   sentiments." '

1861-62]                 England's position           191

          From Mr. Gladstone {August 3rd, 1862).

    ' I came away from the Cabinet yesterday with
rather a bad conscience, seeing that the question to
move or not to move in the matter of the American
Civil War was still in discussion ; and, like other people
Iwho visit upon others the consequences of their own

shortcomings, want to now beg you of your charity
to  let me know          at  what  point the matter was left.
    ' My opinion         is  that  it is vain, and wholly unsus-

tained by precedent, to say that nothing shall be done
till both parties are desirous of it ; that, however, we
ought to avoid sole action, or anything except acting
in such a combination as would morally represent the
weight of impartial Europe ; that with this view we
ought to communicate with France and Russia, to
make with them a friendly representation
                                                 (if  they are
ready to do it) of the mischief and the hopelessness of
prolonging the contest in which both sides have made
extraordinary and heroic efforts but they are not
                                   is ;      if

ready, then to wait for some opportunity when they
may be disposed to move with us. The collusion of
other Powers would be desirable                  does not en
                                         if
                                             it

cumber the movement. Something,              I   trust, will be

done before the hot weather              over to stop these
frightful horrors.'

   Early in August, 1862, the Duke received a long
letter from Mr. Motley, which contained the following

passage
    I'
                   :
        thank you for your very kind and cordial ex
pressions both with regard to us and to the UnitedI
States, and cannot but think that you will always
rejoice as long as you live (and sincerely hope thatI
that will be very long) for the noble words that you
have publicly spoken on the great subject of the age,
and the unwavering attitude which you have main
tained in regard to the merits of the controversy.'

192                    THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                  [chap. xxxiv

   Replying to this letter, the Duke wrote on August
10th:

I' I have maintained unshaken my opinion of the
merits of      the contest  ; and      told       Tennyson     th"e   other
day that       my motto     was    taken         from him   :        Better

...to have fought and lost than never to have fought
at all."       At least, the war will have established the
doctrine that secession is revolution, to be maintained
only at the cost of war, and this is the doctrine which
has always appeared to me to be essential to your

Iexistence as a nation. . . .
    ' One      result  boef entheabcuonndteasnttlywhriecahlizedha--veviza.l,wayitss
foreseen        has

Iincreasing and intensifying anti-slavery character.

But on this subject must say one word in explana
tion of what is so commonly and so foolishly said in
England, that slavery has nothing to do with the war.
IPeople

assert,
          who  say this are denying,               not what you       or  is
          but  what they suppose                 us to assert.
                                                                     It
always supposed in England that we who sympathize
with you on    the subject mean                  that the war is carried
on as a war     against slavery.
                                                 It is this which is so
commonly denied in England in language which goes
timsinuctchtheprfcouaprutosheseitroi.of ntsBh--eutvwizpa.,er,ot"phleeanpdhroeprtehoesictpoiornnofpoou" sntidhtiaottnwsol"avtdheiarsyt
Ithe abolition of slavery is the object of the war."

But have generally found the first proposition ad
mitted when it was clearly explained that the second
was    Inaomt            or supposed to be involved.
               intended  Ithhaatveyoaulwwayilsl  be satisfied with   me on
    '          not sure                           freely admitted    to my

this point. But
opponents that the anti-slavery character of the con
test is, and will be, the result or development of events,
rather than the consequence of any principle of policy
Iconsciously entertained by the Federal party.

   ' On the other hand, have always found that the
most effective argument in support of the view that,

i86i-a2]       mr. Gladstone's sympathies                         193

"Ion the whole, the cause of the Government is the
cause opposed to    slavery is   this :             am content    to
accept this on the  testimony    of those       who know best
                                                                  --

viz., the Southern States themselves. They have
declared that, in their opinion, slavery was in danger.
IThe                              indirect and                But they
                                 so real that                  them in
tell
danger must          b--e                        distant.

us it was real                                  it justified
               have never found any answer to this.
seceding."
But in justice to the vulgar view in England, it ought
to be admitted that the sympathy which may be
claimed on behalf of a policy consciously entertained
is different from the sympathy which is due only on
account of indirect
                                 and unintended effects.      extent,
   ' In my opinion               sympathy is due, to some
on both grounds. But to appreciate this, more
accurate knowledge of the history of American parties
is required than our people generally possess. So

Imuch say in explanation of a state of feeling and
Iopinion in this country which have much regretted.'

   The Duke of Argyll and Mr. Gladstone, as their
correspondence shows, held diametrically opposite
views on the American question, and in later years
the Duke used to say that he had never been able to
understand Mr. Gladstone's sympathy with the cause

of the Southern States.

          To Mr. Gladstone {September 2nd, 1862).

cha' rAascterre,garIdsretthaein  origin of the  war and its   essential
                                  my opinion    unchanged     that on
the part of the Government of the United States it
was just and unavoidable, and that no war which we
have ever waged during the many centuries of our
existence has been more just or more necessary.

I' dissent, also, from the view you express as to
the conduct    of Americans in   respect to     their
inconsistency    on the subject   of revolts.                     alleged
vol. n.                                            It             is not

                                                              13

194        THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                   [chap. xxxiv

inconsistent to sympathize with revolts which are just,
Iand to fight against other revolts which are unjust.
   confess this is my own state of mind. Who ever
heard of anybody supporting, avowedly, revolts as
such, without reference to their cause and object ?

If Americans ever did so, they were wrong ; but no
American would admit that they ever did so, apart
                                         case in
                                         opinion    hand.
                                                    which
*****Ifro'mAptahert,suhpopwoseevder,mefrriotsmof the       you  or
                     any
may have on the merits of the quarrel, there are
many considerations which make me most reluctant

to interfere with it. To my mind it has all the marks
of one of those great events in history whose issues
lie beyond and above the intentions of the parties

fighting.

I"
' You sometimes tell me, as see                    others  saying,
For the anti-slavery cause nothing so             good as  separa
Ition," an

may not
           opinion  --wahnichopminaioyn  or, quite  as probably,
           be true                        which     may receive
as a matter of speculation, but which would be utterly
Iunjustifiable as a basis of any action in the direction

of interference. When see a great contest going
on, one of the parties in which represents, if any
cause ever did, the very impersonation of all that is
corrupting, my wishes and my opinions are not affected
by the assurance that it is much better that the devil
should succeed, for he will all the sooner be hanged

Iafterwards.

   ' do not think that the English people are now as
alive as they ought to be to the moral aspects of this
contest, nor to the terrible effects which the slave
system is producing on the character of the American

people. My firm conviction is that it is rotting the
very heart and conscience of the whites, all over the
Union, in direct proportion to their complicity with
it. This war can't go on without intensifying the
antagonism which has arisenj out of these causes, and
the more intense that antagonism becomes, the better.

1861-62]  SPEECH IN EDINBURGH                          195

I would not interfere to stop it on any account. It
is not our business to do so ; and even short-sightedly,
it is not our interest. Do you wish, if you could
secure this result to-morrow, to see the great cotton
system of the Southern States restored ? Do you
wish to see us again almost entirely dependent on that
IsIydsotemnotf.or the support of our Lancashire population ?

   ' No one has a greater horror than have of parsons
preaching about judgments. But there is one case
in which we are safe in forming an opinion. Where
great calamities arise visibly out of certain natural
causes and the operation of natural laws, we may
safely pronounce on their character. The laws of
Nature are the laws of God, and the consequences which
          from their violation  are His judgments on the
result                          a case of such judgment,
earth.     If ever there was
this war is one of them. When its natural issues
Ihave been reached by the exhaustion of the war, then

  should not object to help in the terms of peace.'

          To Mr. Gladstone {September 8th).

' If the Confederates gain such successes as seriously
to imperil Washington    ?andI  the possession of Maryland,
what will the effect be         watch with intense interest
these ebbs and flows, thinking it a matter of supreme
Iwonder how those ends are to be accomplished which,

  am convinced, are the ends (or some of the ends) in
view. The Duchess has had an eloquent letter from
Mrs. Stowe, which you would think very unjust to
I I IsEanygsla: n"d.
Ihear mtrussutre"
              wish could think the       same.         But she
          do not know whether God                       us, but
          He is with the slave," and     isthiws it"h
          in the cause she at least has                heartens
                                         most at        heart.'

   In a speech made at a banquet given in Edinburgh
to Lord Palmers ton on April 1st, 1863, the Duke

said :

                                                                                         13--2

196                  THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR             [chap. xxxiv

' As my noble friend at the head of the Govern
Gmleansgt owto, ld"                   he addressed last night at
                     the   meeting
                     we   may all   hcaovnetesoturininAdmiviedruicaal ."opiIn,iofnosr

as to the merits of the
      have never concealed my own. As
one,  a people, we must be what we have                 aalwGaoyvserbnemeenn--t
and
absolutely neutral. We must take no part whatever
in that contest ; only, let me remind you, the peace
and goodwill we are all desirous should be main
        boentlwye--ennayt,hedsoees  two     gdreepaetndcopurnintrcieipsalldyo--es upnoont
tained                               not
depend
the conduct of the Government. My noble friend
[Lord Palmerston] has spoken of the miseries of civil
war, as well he may ; but no word has ever fallen from
his lips which implies that anyone was entitled to
cast censure on the American Government for the
contest in which they are engaged.
   ' Who are we, that we should speak of civil war as
in no circumstances possible or permissible ? Do we
not remember that our own liberties have been secured
through every form and variety of civil war ? How
much blood has been shed in the streets of this ancient
capital of Edinburgh ! How many gory heads have
been nailed up in its streets ! How many victims of
civil war crowd our churchyards in every portion of
the country ! How many lie upon our mountains
with nothing to mark them but the heath or the cairn !
What do we say of these men ? Do we consider
their course to have been an evil one ? Do we not
rather turn back to these pages of history with the
loving chisel of Old Mortality, to refresh in our minds
the recollection          otrfuet--heairnd  immortal                      Yes,
                                            it is true  --nthaamtetshe?  blood
gentlemen, if it be
of the martyrs has been the seed of the Church, it is
equally true that the blood of the patriots has been
the foundation of the liberties of our country. Let
us extend, then, to our brethren in America the liberal
                     which we                to be given to our own
interpretation                        seek  have not learned to be
former annals.          I, for      one,

1861-62]          HENRY WARD BEECHER           197

ashamed of that ancient combination of the Bible and
the sword. Let it be enough for us to pray and hope

that the contest, whenever it may be brought to an
end, shall bring with it that great blessing to the

white race which shall consist in the final freedom
of the black.'

   Referring to this speech, Mr. Gladstone wrote to
the Duchess of Sutherland on April 6th, 1863 :

   'That was a most strikingly eloquent speech of
Argyll's, and well deserved reading.'

   The following appreciation by a visitor from Wash
ington who had heard the Duke on this occasion is

quoted here :

' Although Lord Palmerston's speech was the prin
cipal attraction  Iof the evening, the Duke  of Argyll  is
by far the best                              send you   a
                  speaker of them all.
report. He made a most beautiful and telling defence
of America, and was much applauded. There was
not a man there who spoke with his grace and fluency.
He is very young-looking, his fair complexion and
light, almost golden, hair adding to the youthfulness
of his general appearance. He has also a fine, noble
countenance, and altogether impressed me more
favourably than any of the other speakers.'

   From many well-known Americans the Duke re
ceived letters of warm thanks for his support of their

cause.

From Mr. Henry Ward Beecher {July 9th, 1863).

' When our war is over and we are once more at
Ipeace,
Iand that could wish  that you    might visit  :Am" eWrihcaa,t
            might go  before you  to proclaim
shall be done to them who, in places of power, stood

198  THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR                      [chap. xxxiv

Ifirm and faithful to our cause, amidst the faithless ?"

   am sure that you would see that a Republican
welcome can be more royal than any that is ever given

to 'rAoytaaltnyy. rate, it may not be displeasing to you to

know that your name will be held in love and honour
henceforth for your great kindness to us in our dark
hour of trial.'

                          From Mr. Motley.

  I' We all read with admiration your speech at Edin

burgh. How glad am that one whose utterances
on great subjects are so noble and so genuine is friendly
to my country in this hour of her agony !'

     From Mr. Whittier, the poet {April 6th, 1871).

' Hast thou never thought of making a visit to the
U.S. ? Our people would welcome thee as their
friend in the great struggle for Union and liberty,
and in our literary and philosophical circles thou
wo'uBldeslitevfeindmea,ppvreercyia'ttTrivuhelyy  and admiring friends.
                                                 and with the highest respect,
                                                 friend,

                                                 ' John G. W. Whittier.'

   In the summer of 1862 the Duke visited Cambridge
to receive the honorary degree of LL.D. of that
University. In his diary the following mention is

made of the occasion :

   ' 1862. June 9. --A day of functions. Went to
Senate House at two with Chancellor and other
LL.D.'s. Brougham was the favourite. Armstrong
received with tremendous applause. In evening dined
at Queens' in a beautiful old gallery. Replied for
House of Peers. Dinner most picturesque. Walked
back with Sir Edmund Head.

1861-62]  DEGREE AT CAMBRIDGE  199

   ' 1862. June 10. --More functions. Lunched at
Caius. Flower Show in gardens. Great dinner in
Trinity Hall in evening at seven. Spoke for the
Peers who had been doctored, successfully. Home at
twelve. Much congratulated by John Manners, young
Stanley, and Mr. Walpole.'

                  CHAPTER XXXV

                                                  1862-65

                               FOREIGN POLITICS

In 1862 a question arose in connection with the Civil

War in America which assumed serious proportions
for the British Government. The Northern States,
though not hitherto very successful in the field, were
slowly overcoming the Confederates by the blockade
of the Southern ports, while Northern industry and
commerce continued to prosper. The Confederates
endeavoured to retaliate by striking at the sea-borne
trade of their antagonists, but they had no ships, nor
any means of building them, nor had they access to
the sea. They were therefore compelled to purchase
their commerce-destroyers abroad, and many vessels
were laid down to their order in English yards. The
North asserted that to allow these ships to be built
and to set sail for such a purpose was an act of hos
tility, but the sentiments as well as the interests of
English shipbuilders made them willing to assist the
Confederates. The dispute came to a crisis over the
Alabama, which was built on the Mersey, and, partly
owing to an unfortunate chapter of minor accidents,
was allowed to sail before the British Government
had decided that the evidence as to its destination
was sufficient to justify the detention of the vessel,
in compliance with the demands of the American

                                                                     200

1862-65]                   THE 'ALABAMA'                            201

Minister, Mr. Adams. It was ascertained, when too

late to prevent the departure of the Alabama, that
legal opinion was on the side of the American de
mands. Earl Russell, acting on a suggestion made
by the Duke of Argyll, proposed, with a view to
avoiding any unfortunate consequences, that orders
should be given to detain the Alabama at any British
port at which she might touch. The other members
of the Cabinet, however, refused to sanction the

proposal of the Foreign Secretary.
   The following letter, written by the Duke to Earl

Russell ten years later (December 5th, 1872), refers
to the situation at this period :

' Let me call to your recollection one circumstance,
I Iof which have a vivid

a conversation one day
                           recollection.       "  eYsocaupean"d of  had
                           about the                                the
IAlabama, and urged on you that, though she had
fraudulently escaped when you had meant to seize
her, that was no reason why we should not detain her
if she touched at any of our ports. You agreed with
me in this view, and you drew up a despatch directing
the colonial authorities to detain her if she came into
the' iIrf
           power.    gone  forth,  one  great  plea  of  the     Ameri
           this had

cans could never have been urged against us, and
the American claims would, perhaps, have never been
made at all.

   ' But what happened ? When you brought it
Ibefore the Cabinet there was a perfect insurrection.
Everybody but you          vaenhdemenwtereagaaginasitnstitsthe"  proposed
step. Bethell was                                                legality,"
and you gave it up.
   ' The correlative of this opinion is that America
had reason and right in complaining that the Alabama
was received in all our ports, and that so far we were
in the wrong.'

202  FOREIGN POLITICS                           [chap. xxxv

There is now no dispute regarding the facts of the

case. The Alabama was built for the Confederates,

equipped in English waters, and manned principally
by an English crew. She frequented British ports

in various parts of the world, and eventually greatly

injured the Northern ocean trade.

From the first escape of the Alabama in 1862 until

the final settlement of the question by arbitration at

Geneva in 1872, the Duke consistently maintained

that England was in the wrong.

The Foreign Enlistment Act had been passed to
prevent British subjects from breaking the neutrality

existing between Great Britain and other States by
' the equipment of vessels for foreign service.' In

the case of the Alabama, however, it was found that

the terms of this Act were not sufficiently explicit
to be effectual, but the British contention was that

the Act was a piece of domestic legislation, not to be

altered at the suggestion of any foreign nation. This

attitude was maintained until the Derby Administra

tion took up the quarrel in 1866, and some years

later the Act was amended.

On April 27th the Duke wrote to Mr. Gladstone :
I I' The more
     think of it, the more clear                                  feel

that the doctrine that our inaction with regard
to the Alabama was no violation of international
law, but only of municipal law, is a doctrine which
will not stand investigation, and will certainly not
be consistent with the maintenance of peace, when
                                                                  it.
eve' rItotwheorulndatfioolnloswartehasttrowneg  enough to resent  Foreign
                                                might repeal our
Enlistment Act to-morrow, and thereupon every one
of our ports might be busy building, fitting out, and
arming whole fleets of war-vessels to be commissioned
by the Confederates, without giving any ground of
offence to the American Government.

1862-65]        THE 'ALABAMA* AFFAIR                    203

' In like manner, if we were blockading the coasts
of France, the American ports might furnish to France
any number of armed ships to be commissioned by
Iher. Do you believe we should stand that without
remonstrance ?     do not. It is a doctrine in the

highest degree dangerous to ourselves, and against
all'
      reason  and common-sense.        would be per
      Peace   between two Governments

fectly compatible, on this doctrine, with systematic
Iwar   between their respective subjects.
    '   agree with Goldwin Smith when he   says   :  "  Inter

hniagthio."na'l law nowadays is carrying things rather

   The Duke, in a letter to Mr. Motley (July 24th,

1863), alludes to the attitude of Mr. Sumner with

regard to this vexed question :

' We have had a frequent correspondence with
Sumner of late. He scolds and denounces us all
furiously ; but he is so excellent and true-hearted
Ithat we take it all very willingly. We have also seen

Henry Ward Beecher, whom liked, and we had a
very pleasant morning's conversation with him in the
                1
garden here.'

   During the early months of 1863 two ironclad rams
were built at Liverpool for the purpose of destroying
the vessels which blockaded the Confederate ports.
Mr. Adams pressed Lord Russell to detain these
ironclads, but for a long time in vain.

   The Duke wrote from Inveraray on September 4th,
1863, to Mr. Gladstone :

   ' We have had

Iitnhinhkis--laanbgouuat gteh,e
                   Adams here. He is   --vearnyd  temperate
                   but much concerned               justly,
                   ironclads. He tells me that he pro
cured from the French Consul an immediate denial
of the rumour that they were built on French account.

204             FOREIGN POLITICS                                    [chap. XXXV

IThe assertion that they were so built is of itself a
strong indication of fraud.                      hear that Laird* says
that, if officially asked, he will declare the destination
of the ships.'

         To Mr. Gladstone {September 10th, 1863).

I' have long been in correspondence with head
          about the ironclads, and have urgently
quarters   and necessity of detaining the ships.                    prIefsswede
the duty
are beat for want of evidence before a court of justice,
Iit will, at least, not be our fault. But if we allowed

them to go without an effort to prevent them, think
we should have been open to just complaint. Roundell
Palmer told me that the evidence he had seen pointed
Ito a French destination, and that the French Consul
claimed them.   was greatly relieved by this informa
tion. But Adams told me the other day here that
he had at once procured a denial and disavowal from
the French authorities.'

   On September 8th Lord Russell informed Mr.
Adams that he had given instructions for the deten
tion of the vessels. The American Ambassador wrote
on October 17th to the Duke :

   ' The detention of the ironclads has done wonders
in conciliating my masters in America, for it shows
the will, which is of more consequence even than
the power.'

In reply to a letter from the Duke congratulating
him on his action in the matter, Lord Russell wrote
as follows :
                                                 ' Pembroke Lodge,
                                                         ' 0ctober mh' im-
   ' My  ' dI etahranDk uykoeu,  heI afretillty  for your kind letter. It

was a    difficulty, and                         bound to solve it. Now

                * The shipbuilder.

1862-65]             INTERNATIONAL LAW                                   205

we shall either have a verdict or full proof that the
Ilaw' Brueqt uireswisahmetnhdemeNnotr.th would clear the West of
the Mississippi, establish freedom in Maryland, etc.,
and  then  let  their  wayward                                in peace.
                                            siste' rYsougros   truly,
                                                              ' Russell.'

   From the Duke's correspondence with Mr. Glad
stone at this time the following extracts are given :

           To Mr. Gladstone {April 1th, 1863).

' Tell me, pray, if you hear of any question likely
Itoseaeristehaatbo"uHt,istoorriucnudser",*  the Foreign Enlistment       Act.
                                             puts an interpretation
                                                                         on it
which cannot be the one adopted by our law officers.
He maintains that not even full arming and equip
ment constitute any infringement of the Act, unless
the persons so arming and equipping are also the
persons intending to employ the vessel in hostile acts.
Of course, this interpretation makes the law absolutely
nugatory, because the persons building and equipping
are never the same persons as those who use the vessel
after it is built. The whole subject requires review.
No two men seem agreed on the object or principle
of the law. No doubt the simplest footing would be
a universal understanding that armed vessels, as well
as small arms and guns, may be freely supplied to
either party as subjects of commerce. But there are
circumstances in which this doctrine and practice
would not be stood by the injured nations. Probably
we should be the first to resent and punish the adoption
of such a practice by the subjects of friendly Govern
ments. But if it were the acknowledged doctrine of
all States, it would save much of the evil of the present
state of things.'

* The name under which Mr., afterwards Sir William, Harcourt

wrote to the Times.

206                  FOREIGN POLITICS                                   [CHAP. XXXV

     To Mr. Gladstone {September 28th, 1863).
   ' There is no doubt of the immense difficulty of the

Iquestion of the ironclads. But think the difficulty
Iarises mainly from the (as think) unfortunate state
oSfoupthu.blicI  feeling, so  largely sympathizing with the
                 mean that    the difficulty is rather due to
the impediments in our way in doing what is right
Ithan in seeing what is right to be done.

   ' As regards executive action, do not see why the
export of armour-plated ships should not be pro
hibited for the present, as the export of other contra
band of war has often been prohibited before. As
regards legislation, probably the simplest way would
be to require that the builders of all such vessels
should be required to declare for what Government
they are built, a false allegation to be checked by
an appeal to the Government for which the vessel
is said to be built.
   ' Of course, iron-plated vessels cannot be built for
private persons. No private persons are in a position
to use them. They must be built for some Govern
ment entitled to carry on war. Such an enactment
would not interfere with a great number and variety
of vessels capable of being converted into war-vessels.
But we cannot reach by any possible enactment this
Ikpirno'dceeoqdfusoeposetniroapntrioonow.fheotfh"erintaennyt."
                                                                Act is   workable which
                                                                  How   can it be proved,
any more than it is proved in this case ? An iron
clad can be intended only for war. It must, therefore,
wbear.inteInfdeadll  for some Government entitled to
                     other Governments disclaim the                     wage
                                                                        com
mission, as they do, what Government can it be
intended for except that which is waging war against
the United States, with whom we are at peace ? The
allegation that such vessels are for a private individual,
in any other sense than as he may be the agent for
some Government, is so clear a fraud and evasion, that,
unless the law can reach it, it is a useless law, and

1862-65]    OUR LAWS AS TO SHIP-BUILDING  207

society is helpless against a crime seriously endangering

its' pIfeacthe.is were felt, as it ought to be felt, by the

public and by Parliament, there would not be much
difficulty in devising means for securing ourselves
against such acts.

   ' Sumner has made in many respects a very foolish

Iatsrhnuidplysi--nestxthrpoaentdgielEynnt galnisspdheecwhpe.olrl.tsBuHhteavheeasspbeuertctsso--mtheaendtmh, eattnefarevaoar,fl

base of naval operations.'

It afterwards transpired that the American Govern

ment had, without the knowledge of Mr. Adams, sent
two representatives to England on a secret mission,
the object of which was to endeavour to outbid the

Confederates, and to purchase from the builders the
ironclads in question for the use of the Federal States.

This project was, however, eventually abandoned by
those entrusted with the mission.*

On December 20th, 1864, Mr. Gladstone wrote to

the Duke :

' There is another subject touching our relations
with the United States on which we ought now to
make up our minds. Is the state of our laws with
            building ships of  Iwfawr esaatrisefacclteoarry,thaotr
            more stringent ?
Irespect to the

ought it to be
it ought not, well and good. But for one am not
quite clear. And if there is anything to amend, this
is the time to think of some plan for amending it,
whether by ourselves or in concurrence with the
United States or with other countries.'

   To this the Duke replied on December 23rd :

  I' do not think the law, as it at present stands, is

a law which enables us, as a Government, to fulfil our

   * ' Charles Francis Adams,1 by his son, Charles Francis Adams,
p. 320.

208              FOREIGN POLITICS               [chap. xxxv

neutral obligations with sufficient facility and certainty.
Unfortunately, however, the exact condition of the law
was not tested by any judicial decision. . . .
   ' Enough, however, was seen of it in the course of

the argument to show that it does not arm the Execu
tive with powers sufficiently definite and precise to be
brought easily into operation, and that in this respect
it  is inferior  to the corresponding American  Act.
    ' Roundell                                  very  slight
                  Palmer spoke to me as if a
alteration in the wording of the Act would be sufficient
Ifor the purpose. He should, of course, be consulted

on the subject. But on one thing feel sure : that
our obligations as a neutral are not, and cannot be,
measured by our powers as a Government under the
municipal statute, and if the latter is defective, falling
short of the powers which the Executive ought to

Ihave to enable it to fulfil its neutral obligations,
Inever could understand the objection to an amendment

oafef.edlteihneegp---lsaewwa.theidchYreemtl,uackatesasnactehme--atqttuheeerstooifoldnfaJacoth,vnerytBhudinellklicnatohtleeurmeounises
to handle. Matters would be made much worse by
the failure of any attempted legislation.

  I' am sure all Americans bear us an insuperable
I Igrudge on account of the Alabama, and confess
do not think their feeling unnatural and unreasonable.

IWe should feel exactly the same in their place.
think every Government ought to have full power to
prevent the national interests being compromised by
the rapacity of individual merchants, and that there
is an essential and inherent distinction between arms,
ammunition, etc., and ships.'

   On December 26th, 1864, the Duke replied to a
letter from Mr. Gladstone, who had urged him to
' stir up Lord Russell ' on the subject of the Alabama :

  I' wrote at once to Lord Russell on receipt of your
Iletter, all the more readily as have always taken the

1862-65] LORD RUSSELL AND THE ' ALABAMA '                       209

same view of the expediency, if not of the duty, of
Imaking our municipal law more clear, and bringing

it up more abreast of what think is our international
I Iobligation. But the difficulties are considerable, and

  feel sure, as said before, that an abortive attempt
to legislate would put us in a worse position than that
in which we now stand.
I' The amendment you suggest is very much that
awthBicahlmormale--ntivoinze.,dthtaot  you last year    when you were
                                       where ships of  an acknowledged
or provable war character were being built, the builders
should be obliged to declare by what Government they
were ordered, and that building such ships, except on
Isuch order, should be illegal after the Queen's procla
amtatbioyn.Cobdetnh.inkItsosmeeemthsintgo  of this  kind was    pointed
                                           me to    be clearly  reason

able.

   ' Lord Derby hinted last session an objection to
any legislation on the                 sItubwjeacst,thwishi:cthhadtoeasnynoatltearpapteioanr
to me to hold water.
of the law effected during the contest must injuriously
affect one or other of the belligerents, and is, therefore,
pro tanto, a departure from neutrality. The idea of
neutrality on which this objection is founded is a
very strange  oInte,is  but            it seems to be  very commonly
entertained.             the                           notion that the
                                        puzzle-headed
duty of neutrality is to keep the balance as even as
we can between the belligerents, and the perpetual
observation is that our neutrality is one-sided, because
its practical operation is (in some respects, at least)
adverse to the weaker of the two belligerents.'

Lord Russell's reply to the Duke concerning the

Alabama question was regarded by his colleagues as

inconclusive. He considered that the British Govern

ment could not at that moment proceed further in

the matter. The next step should, he thought, be

taken by the United States, to whom proposals of
vol. n.
                                                       14

210                 FOREIGN POLITICS                       [CHAP. XXXV

mediation had been made -- proposals which, as yet,
had neither been accepted nor rejected.

   In the month of October, 1865, Lord Palmerston,

who was in his eighty-first year, died somewhat
suddenly, after a few days' illness. He was suc
ceeded as Prime Minister by Lord Russell, and the
Administration continued as before.

   No decision had been arrived at with regard to the
Alabama claim, and the Duke was particularly anxious

to have the question fairly faced and finally settled,
as he considered that, until that had been done, there

was no guarantee of permanent harmony between the
two nations. He wrote to Mr. Gladstone, Novem

ber 27th, 1865:

' Pray do give your mind to the important question
whether we should or should not amend our own
Foreign Enlistment Act.             L"oornd   Russell's    despatch of
November 3rd admits that                     trial it had   not proved
efficacious." But what follows hardly amounts to a
formal invitation that both countries should amend
Itogether. Even, however, if the invitation were

formal, feel pretty sure that in their present temper
the Americans would refuse. They have some reason
to say that their law is better (though R. Palmer
thinks not) ; but, at all events, their executive action
is a  little  more  free  "thhaans  ours, and they may deny
that  their   own   law             proved not efficacious on
trial."
   ' The question, then, will remain for us : Shall we
keep our law as it is, after experience and public con
fession that it is ineffective, or shall we, irrespective
of all other interests than our own, proceed to
amend it ?
   ' For doing nothing there are powerful inducements
acting, at least, on the Foreign Office. First, there
is the disposition to procrastinate and put off all

1862-65]  LORD RUSSELL'S ADMINISTRATION                                     211

difficult questions -- " anything for a quiet life." " Suffi
cient unto the day is the evil thereof," as in the San
Juan case.
   ' Secondly, there is the controversial temper con
sequent on the correspondence with Adams. This is
the ground taken by  Lord              Russell in
with Palmer's Draft  Bill.                              his note along
                                       It seems         to me a very

weak ground.
   ' Whatever may be the relation between a Foreign
Enlistment Act and international obligation, there can
be no doubt that the fundamental principle is self-
protection, not the protection of other people. The
pre' aTmobledeloafythaemsetantduinteg  declares this distinctly.
                                        a law which is intended             "  for
our own protection, after we had declared that                                 on
trial it has proved inefficacious," is surely the height
of 'foAlfltye.r all, our amending the statute now will
afford no sort of triumph or argument against us to
          The Alabama                                   long before our     law
Adams.     brought to                  trieaslc.apeIdt  was the case of     the
had been
rams, long subsequent to the evasion of the Alabama,
which really tested the inefficiency of our law, and we
                   difficulty only      by
surmounted the     the argument        for              purchase.    in  a  nut
   ' But, really,                                       action lies
shell. The statute is both municipal and inter

national in its bearings. In both it is important as
a means of preserving peace. We admit it to be, in
its present form, inefficacious. Can there be any
doubt of the duty of a Government under such circum
stances to amend the law V

   Lord Russell's Administration was short - lived,
lasting only from November, 1865, to June, 1866.
On his resignation, Lord Derby became Prime Minister
for the third time, and Lord Stanley was Secretary for
Foreign Affairs. He did not follow the policy of his
predecessors--Lord Russell and Lord Clarendon --but

                                                                                14--2

212  FOREIGN POLITICS  [CHAP. XXXV

 admitted responsibility for American commercial losses,
 and arbitration was formally proposed. This the
 United States accepted, but on the condition that all
 questions at issue between the two countries should
be included in the reference. The American diplo
matists wished, also, to submit, as one of the issues,

the question of the right of Great Britain to recognise

the Confederates even as belligerents. At this point

the negotiations for the time broke down, and when

they were renewed in the following year, at the in
stance of the American Ambassador, Mr. Johnson, it
fell to Lord Clarendon to accept the final terms, the

Derby Administration having in the meantime re

signed, after defeat at the polls.

   It was at this moment, when the difficulties seemed

in a fair way towards solution, that Mr. Seward made

a speech denouncing the conduct of England during
the Civil War. The result was that Congress refused
to ratify the Convention, and matters reverted to
their former chaotic condition.

    One of the points at issue between the two Govern

ments was a question as to the Canadian Fishery
Rights in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and on the eastern
coast of the United States. Lord Granville, who had

become Secretary for Foreign Affairs on the death of
Lord Clarendon, proposed that a joint High Com
mission should meet at Washington for the settlement

of the question. President Grant accepted the sugges
tion, and at the same time proposed that all questions
at issue between America and Great Britain should be

submitted to the same Commission. This proposal
was agreed to by the British Government, and the
Commission, which met at Washington on February
27th, 1871, resulted in the Treaty of Washington.

1862-65]  THE GENEVA ARBITRATION  213

j T The terms of the Treaty provided for the settlement
of the Alabama claims by a tribunal, consisting of five
arbiters, which was to meet at Geneva, and to decide

all the questions submitted to it. These arbiters were :

Sir Alexander Cockburn, Mr. Charles Francis Adams,

Count Frederic Sclopis, Monsieur J. Staempfli, and

Baron d'ltajuba, and they met for the first time on

December 15th, 1871.

    The tribunal found England responsible for the acts
of the Alabama, and awarded a sum of £3,250,000

sterling to America as compensation and final settle

ment of all claims. Eventually it proved that this

compensation was excessive, as, after satisfying all

demands, America was left in possession of £1,000,000.
   During the period of Lord Palmer ston's last Ad

ministration, foreign affairs occupied a prominent
place, and until the question of Reform was again
taken up under Earl Russell's premiership, the political
stage was filled by Italy, the United States, Poland,
and Denmark.

   Poland was seething with discontent and ready for
rebellion, when Russia laid on the Poles a last intoler

able burden, by converting the annual conscription
lists, made up by lot, into a proscription of all the young
and active men who were suspected of sympathizing
with revolution. An insurrection broke out, and the

insurgent Poles waged a guerilla warfare against the
Russian forces, striving, as their only hope of success,
to keep alight the flame of revolt until the Western
Powers should have been forced by the sympathy and
indignation of their peoples to intervene.

   Lord Russell, in a despatch, vindicated the right of
England to interpose under the terms of the Treaty
of Vienna, but this step was without effect on the

214            FOREIGN POLITICS                             [CHAP. XXXV

situation, and there was no question of any practical

interference on the part of England.

   The French Emperor proposed a Congress to discuss
the European situation, but the proposal was not
accepted. The refusal to meet his views gave con
siderable offence to Louis Napoleon, and rendered
negotiations with France more difficult at a later
period, when a question with regard to the Duchies
of Schleswig and Holstein engaged the attention of

Europe.
   On the occasion of a motion in the House of Lords,

brought forward on July 13th, 1863, by Earl Grey,

asking the Government for further information on
the subject of Poland, the Duke, in reply to Lord
Clanricarde, spoke as follows :

' Unless we are in a position to do absolutely nothing,
and to say not a word in favour of Poland or in repro
bation of the cruelties of which she has been the
victim, no other course can be taken                thaIfn  that pur
sued by Her Majesty's Government.
                                                            it is our
duty to speak at all, we are bound to limit our sugges
tions within the four corners of the Treaty of Vienna.
But my noble friend [Earl Russell] has not main
tained that we are bound to restore Poland to that
position in which she was constituted by the Treaty
of Vienna ; he merely said that the Treaty of Vienna
gives us a locus standi which entitles us to speak on
tEhueroPpoel.ishItqfuoellsotwiosn,  along with the other Powers of
                                    however, that we cannot propose
to the Emperor of Russia to part altogether with his
Polish Empire. As to the policy of doing nothing,
silence under                                          need not   imply
                 certain             circumstances  no relation  with a
consent. It    may be               that we have
part of Europe which is the scene of great horrors,
and in which great cruelties are being perpetrated ;
but if we have a locus standi for speaking upon the

1862-65]     SCHLESWIG AND HOLSTEIN                         215

condition of that country, and yet offer no opinion,
we should be guilty of a great dereliction of public
Iduty. This is the position of the Government in the
present instance.         do not know what the noble
Marquis of Clanricarde meant by the speech he has
just made,   but he seemed      t--o naamdveolcya, tethaat  doctrine
which ought   to be repudiated                              England
ought never to speak unless she is prepared to follow
up her speech by broadsides of shot and shell, and
ought never to use her moral influence on the side of
any people unless she is prepared to go to war in their
favour. Now, we are often inclined to exaggerate
our advantages as compared with those of former
times ; but one of the advantages and the blessings
which we now enjoy is certainly an increase in the

power exercised by public opinion. In our day public
opinion acts much more powerfully and rapidly, and
with much greater certainty, upon the councils of

the world than it ever has done before ; and it would
have been a grave dereliction of public duty if England,
representing as she does, to a great extent, the feeling
PofolaEnudro. pe,Ithaids  held her tongue upon the subject of
                          worthy of remark that during the
whole debate no course has been pointed out other
Ithan that pursued by the Government, except the

policy of total and, must add, of ignominious silence.'

   Towards the close of the year 1863 a point of dispute

concerning the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein

began to assume prominence. These Duchies had
been for hundreds of years an appanage of the Danish
Crown, but not part of the Danish kingdom. Holstein

was purely German in its population, and formed part
of the German Bund ; Schleswig was half German
and half Danish. The more ardent Danes, instigated

partly by the Scandinavian populations behind them
in Norway and Sweden, desired an incorporating and
not a merely personal union. On the other side were

216          FOREIGX POLITICS                    [chap. XXXV

the German nationalists, who considered that the

German population in the Duchies was subject to
Danish oppression. The Danes were responsible for
some violations of the Treaty of London, which had
been signed in 1852 by England, France, Austria,
Russia, Sweden, and Denmark, and by which the
Duchies were united to Denmark.

   On the death of Frederick VII. of Denmark, the

Crown devolved upon Prince Christian of Schleswig

Holstein Sonderburg Glucksburg, who, in default of
direct heirs of the late King, had been chosen by

the Great Powers of Europe to succeed Frederick VII.
on the throne of Denmark. At the time this arrange

ment was concluded by the Treaty of London in 1852,
the Duke of Augustenburg, who was then a claimant
for the Duchies, agreed to renounce any rights he might
possess as regards Holstein and Schleswig ; but his
son, Prince Frederick, now renewed these claims, and

Germany resisted the idea of the incorporation of the
Duchies by Denmark.

   While at Balmoral in June, 1864, the Duke of

Argyll wrote a memorandum on the subject of
Schleswig-Holstein for the Queen, which explained the

situation during the eleven years that followed the
Treaty of 1852. From this memorandum the follow

ing passages are quoted :

I' have never felt called upon to defend the ex
pediency of the Treaty of 1852. We found it existing,
and it was clearly the duty of all the signatories to
that Treaty   to act upon it  in good faith.
                              principle of that  Treaty  is
   ' At the  same time, the
one which has often been acted upon in Europe. The
claim of the Augustenburgs to the Duchy of Holstein,
and still more to the Duchy of Schleswig, was not an
undisputed claim. On the contrary, it was open to

1862-66] THE SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN QUESTION                   217

doubt, and, as a matter of fact, was violently con
tested. This doubt was not confined to those who

were in the Danish interest. A Commission appointed
by the King of Prussia reported against the claim.
This fact is, to my mind, conclusive proof that it was
a claim open to real doubt. At any rate, it was a

claim founded on the highest and purest doctrines of
legitimacy. These are always held to be subject to
limitation and control from practical political con
siderations.

   ' Europe, therefore, had before it the prospect of
a disputed claim, and probably of a war of succession.
Under these circumstances, it seems to me that it
was not unreasonable or unjust that the Great Powers
of Europe should agree to recognise and support some
one principle of settlement which would be most con

sonant to the general interest.

             *****

' If, however, the Treaty of 1852 had broken down
really and bond fide from the opposition of the people of
the Duchies and from nothing else, there would have
been no feeling in this country leading us to insist on
Iits   being maintained.
     '     entirely agree  that  England  has  no selfish      or
personal interest in the matter. A German fleet is
quite as likely to be friendly with us as a Danish fleet,

per'hBaupst  more so.  as  one   of the  Great Powers,    has  a
             England,
general interest in supporting justice and fair dealing
among Continental States, and especially in supporting
the                    of the   smaller monarchies.
       independence  strong    feeling in England    has  arisen
    '  The present

from the belief that if the German Powers had acted
in good faith in support of the Treaty which they had
signed, it might have been maintained, consistently
with full security for the liberties of the people of the

*****Duchies.

218                      FOREIGN POLITICS                [chap. XXXV

' It seems to me open to a fair doubt whether
IDenmark has violated the promise not to incorporate

Schleswig ; but do not dispute the right of the
German Powers to exercise a reasonable check on
Danish action     in this respect.
   ' This right,  however, ought           to  have  been acted       upon
with great reserve and moderation, because Schleswig
does not belong to the German Confederation, and in
the correspondence of 1851 and 1852 it is over and
over again acknowledged that Germany has no federal
right of interference whatever.
   ' Consequently, the right of interference rests merely
on the natural sympathy which Germany may have
with a German population which has settled in an
ancient Danish province. This sympathy is natural,

and would be respected in England if acted upon
with reasonable moderation. But the violent and
bloody war waged upon Denmark, on account of
her conduct, however foolish, in Schleswig, is a
mode of action beyond all moderation and against
all    justice.
       This, at  least,  is  the  feeling  in  England.
    '

           * * * **
' At the same time, the English public are too apt
to forget that Prussia has been able to play this game
only because a great part, at least, of the people of
                  hostile to the Danish        aGsosvuecrnhm. enItt.    This
Schleswig    are
is a fact,  and   we must recognise it                                proves

that there can be no durable peace on the basis, pure
and simple, of the Treaty of 1852.'

   Mr. Gladstone wrote to the Duke on December 31st,
1863:

' This afternoon a telegram acquaints me we are to
Ihave a Cabinet on Saturday. Considering your know

ledge of, and interest in, the Danish question, think
Iit likely you may be there, notwithstanding the
distance.        shall therefore say very little.'

1862-65] THE SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN QUESTION      219

   Lord Palmerston had stated, in reply to a question

as to the intentions of the Government with regard

to Schleswig-Holstein in 1863, that he was convinced

that ' if any violent attempt were made to overthrow

the rights and interfere with the independence of
Denmark, those who made the attempt would find in

the result that it would not be Denmark alone with

which they would have to contend.' These words,
coming from the Prime Minister, were supposed to
imply that England would intervene on behalf of
Denmark, although that intention was not definitely

stated. The Cabinet, indeed, came to the conclusion
that intervention on the part of Britain was out of

the question, as it was obviously impossible for a

country, which could do no more than put in the field

an army of 20,000 men, to fight two military empires

such as Germany and Austria.

   This decision on the part of England, combined with

the attitude of France in holding aloof, left Denmark

at the mercy of the united armies of Austria and
Prussia, which entered Holstein early in 1864.

   At the suggestion of Lord Russell, it was arranged

that a Conference of the Powers who had signed the
Treaty of London was to be held in London on April

25th, 1864.

   In a speech in the House of Lords on the 9th of
April, the Duke, in reply to Lord Campbell, defended

the policy of the Government with regard to the ques
tion of Schleswig-Holstein :

     '"  am anxious to  hear what my noble    friend means
         more decided   action in support of  the protocol
Iby
Iof 1852."  have no doubt that he means that the
Government might have prevented the war altogether
if,  in fact, they had only threatened to take part in

220                 FOREIGN POLITICS             [CHAP. XXXV

it. The question put is, Why did not the Govern
ment prevent the war ? But the real question which
my noble friend wishes to put is, Why has not the
Government taken part in it ? The critics of the
Government have always one story : they never
avow that they are in favour of a war policy, but they
say that if the Government had done this or the other
we should have prevented war. But it is equally
open to the Government to say that if we had adopted
a different course we should have increased the chances

Iof bloodshed and the miseries that have resulted.
maintain that it is sufficient for the Government to
show that we have adopted and have adhered to some
definite line of policy, which we are able to support
Iand maintain in Parliament and to justify before the
country.        protest against the doctrine that, primd
facie, there is any^case against the Government of
this country for not preventing a Continental war,
even supposing it may have broken out under cir
cumstances of much injustice. England has a great
position in Europe, not only on account of her material
power, but from the just impression that prevails
that, on the Continent at least, she has no selfish
interests whatever to serve, and that so far as our
interests, which are principally commercial, are con
cerned, they are bound up with the prosperity of the
whole world. But England is not the general arbitress
in the quarrels of Continental nations. There may
be wars under circumstances of the greatest injustice
waged there,     but that is not  a prima facie
the English     Government for     not having     case against
                                                 interfered in

them.    ...    be  remembered    that  we were not dealing

  ' It  should
with the Government of Germany alone. We were
dealing to a great extent with forces which took their
Iorigin in the revolutionary passions which were then

existing on the Continent ; in short, do not believe
it would be too much to say that we were dealing with
two fanatical democracies. These were not powers

1862-65]  SPEECH ON SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN                          221

Iaccessible to reason, and am therefore convinced
that, if we had taken that course, we not only should
not have averted war, but we should have been forced
to join in the war, should have increased the blood

shed,     adnadngesrhso.uldIthawviell  brought on new and compli
cated                                  be admitted that any course
which should isolate us from France would be very
dangerous. As long as both countries go together,
there are few things which they cannot secure in

the way of peace ; but if isolated action were once
adopted by either, there are contingencies which might
impel them more and more in opposite directions, and
might lead to the greatest perils to the peace of
IEurope.

   ' am sure it is with feelings of absolute affliction
that every member of                   the House has read the   dItailiys
accounts of the cruel                   and useless slaughter.
absolutely certain that every object sought by the
war might have been obtained by negotiation. During
the last ten years we have witnessed three great wars
in which there has been great bloodshed, but in respect

of all three great issues were at stake. In the case
of the Russian War, in which we were parties, the
question was whether the same Sovereign should reign

at St. Petersburg and Constantinople. In the case
of the Italian War, the question was whether one of
the great nations in Europe, with an ancient literature
and a noble history, and the highest capacities for
political life, should continue to be for ever nothing
but the favourite camping-ground of German soldiers.
With regard to the war now raging on the other side
of the Atlantic, however they may deplore it, extend

ing as it does over such a vast territory, and as yet
giving no indication of its approaching end, no man
can deny that there are great issues raised, all of which,
probably, can only be settled by the results of war.
But, in contrast to these, the war in Denmark has for
its object issues that could certainly be settled by
other means. What is the object set before them by

222                            FOREIGN POLITICS  [CHAP. XXXV

Ithe German Powers ?                     do not depreciate to the
laSibscehrwleteisewshig--avt-ehHeotyolstheoauivnrees r--sasbtuhgteooidsvatlauheerrigethhteaytsoisnetghtleeuirpooblnibjeectrhttieeiinsr
respect to them which could not be as well obtained
by'  negotiation and without effusion            of blood ?
     We are going to the Conference               with three                    great
objects. The first is to restore peace to the North of
Europe ; the second, to secure the legal rights of the
Duchies ; and the third, to reconcile with those rights
the integrity and independence of Denmark. There is
ownheaat rgisumcaelnletdwahic"hmmoirgehtdebecidfaeidrlycouurgrseed,"agaanindst  taking
                                                                                that is
Ithat there is some doubt as to the merits and justice
of the original quarrel.                 will not dwell upon the weak
points of the Danish case. The Danes are a gallant
people, more sinned against than sinning. But those
who have read the papers must remember that we have
been compelled to make admissions on the subject of
     --coandsmtiitsustioionns  which is                                         of the
the                              which   the immediate cause                    as to
war                                      raise some doubts

*****whether the Germans might not have had some fair
grounds of dispute with the Danish people. But
Ifeeling the duty of impartiality in the present position
of the Government,             am much more disposed at
present to point to just grounds of complaint against
the German Powers.

' It is the desire of Her Majesty's Government to
go into the Conference, not as partisans of the one
side or   the  toothreers,torebutpeaicme patrotiaElluyr.opeT--henyo
nothing  but                                                                    desire
                                                                                doubt
compatibly with the local rights of the two Duchies,
and consistently, if possible, with the integrity of
the Danish monarchy. They wish the balance of
power in Europe to be maintained, and the rights of
all the parties to be preserved. These are the objects
Iwhich Her Majesty's Government have had in view

in times past, and in their efforts to avert war believe

1862-65]     ENGLAND AND DENMARK               223

they have had the approbation of the country, and
will have the support of Parliament.'

   During the deliberations of the Conference of the
Powers, hostilities were suspended. The Conference,

however, broke up without having arrived at any

agreement.
   The following extracts are quoted from a speech by

the Duke on July 8th, 1864, in the House of Lords,

defending the policy of the Government, in reply to

a vote of censure proposed by Lord Malmesbury. A
contrast having been drawn by Lord Malmesbury

between the attitude of France and that of Eng

land, much to the disadvantage of England, the

Duke said :

I' do not see how the assertion can be accounted
for that the position of England is humiliated in
consequence of the course we have adopted towards
Denmark, while the position of France is perfectly
upright, fair, and honourable, except by those party
Ifeelings which lead men to attack their own country
through the existing Government.     do not know
how this contrast can be drawn between the two
countries. We were co-signatories of the same Treaty.

IWe were bound by precisely the same obligations.
will go a step further, and, speaking for myself, declare
my firm conviction that England     Ihas no selfish or
material interests whatever in the  question.  deny
the proposition of Lord Derby, that the vital interests
of this country   Iare concerned in the maintenance of
the integrity of
                  Denmark. deeply sympathize with
Ithe Danes. There is no member of the House,
I Iventure to say, who sympathizes with them more

deeply than do ; but say that we in this country
have no selfish or material interests whatever in the
Imaintenance of the Treaty of 1852.  do not say the
Isame of France.  think France has a material

224        FOREIGN POLITICS                                         [chap. XXXV

interest in preventing the advance of the German
                                                    of the Baltic. . . .
ICo'nfedaesrka,tWionhataloisngthtehepwosaitteiorsn  of the two countries            ?

England has recoiled before the risk of war with the
whole of Germany, when that war must be carried on
alone. France has recoiled before the fear of a war
with Germany which would have been carried on in
close alliance with England, one of the greatest Powers
of Europe. France has recoiled before that war
when her own material interests were nearly con
Icerned, at a time when England, who had no interests,
was prepared to join her.                           am not blaming the
Emperor of the French. He is at perfect liberty to
Ibe the judge of his own interests and actions. But

   say that the contrast drawn between the positions
of England and of France is simply ridiculous, and
founded upon a gross misrepresentation of the relative
position of the two countries.
           *****
' The noble Earl repeatedly referred to a particular
hdtieemcaeidlwewadhyespnotolhioceykt.hcainrHekest,owodefoco--ouugthrhsatet,thoweahdranivdeednaotdthoespatyHedohuesaewmo--uoarldes
have done this himself ; but he thinks that if it had
been done, peace would have been secured. What
was the particular juncture at which the noble Earl
suggested, though he did not advise, that we should
have gone to war ? When the German Powers were
about to cross the Eider ? Think of the position that
England would have been in. He did not say a
word about France. He said England might have

done this, and would have done it with complete
           What was the                             of                      the in
success.   Schleswig took   time                        Ityewaar s  when     month
                           place  ?                                 in the
vasion of
of February, when hard frost was prevailing, and the
Baltic was entirely inaccessible to our ships. What
probability of success, then, had England at that time

if she went to war with Germany ? In suchTcircum
stances England, with her 30,000 or 35,000, or, at

1862-65]      SPEECH ON DANISH QUESTION                          225

the outside, 40,000 men, would have been called on
to meet the united German force of perhaps 250,000
men, which would have been ranged against her in
a single week or ten days.
         *****

I' There is one part of the subject wish to deal with
I Ibefore close.       wish to speak of those opponents
of the    Government who                             us, not on the
ground    which the noble     condemn               avowed -- that of
          to drive                                           occupy our
           himself           Earl has                         a definite
                    --usbfurtomwhoofficoeptphoaste
wishing                                             he may
position                                             us on
ground of principle and of policy. These noble Lords

Iare the advocates of a war policy. And again say
I deeply regret the absence of Lord Ellenborough,
who has spoken in that sense more than once with
Iall the vigour of his great powers.                do not deny that
Ithere is in the country, will not say a large party,
but a great number of persons who feel bitterly dis
appointed that England has not gone to war for the
sake of Denmark. This is a feeling which has much
Iof my sympathy and all of my respect.                           confess
Ithat in dealing with this subject feel that the fate of
the Government is a matter of very small importance.
What is important is that the English people should

be satisfied that, if we have refrained from war, it
has not been merely because we have recoiled from
difficulties   and           ctoonsbideeriantciounrsre--d  by ourselves,
but from      much  dangers                                considerations
                     higher
connected with the peace of Europe and the difficulties
Iwhich lay in the way of enforcing the cause of justice.
   beg noble Lords who participate in this feeling to

consider what it is that men mean when they talk of

going to war for Denmark. It is commonly said that
going to war for Denmark means going to war to
support the Treaty of 1852. But those who speak
thus seem to                        that            livpirnagctqicuaelslytionth--e
Treaty of 1852    have forgotten
at all events,  has long ceased to  be a
it has ceased                                       of
vol. n.         since  the  first   meeting         by  the  Conference
                to be  so.         was not              us,  but by the
                             It

                                                             15

226             FOREIGN POLITICS                            [chap. xxzv

Danes    themselves, that the Treaty              was abandoned.
         often been said that it was a            Treaty of recog
It has
nition and not of guarantee, and this, at least, is now
Igenerally understood. But     tIhtiswaiss        not the
                                                  a Treaty  point on
which now wish to dwell.
nition, but what was it that it recognised ?                ofIrtecwoags
a recognition of a personal union between the Crown
of Denmark and the Crowns of the two Duchies, and

not of a union of the countries or their institutions. It
was simply                    otfhSacthltehsewiKg inagndofHDolesntemina--rk
should also    a recognition

               be the King
a recognition of what has been called a personal
         But   sadiidre:ct"lyWethwe illDhaanvees   entered the Con
union.   they                                     no personal union ;
ference
we will not be satisfied with a personal union." Now,
I am not blaming the Danes for taking up this position.
IOn the contrary,   think that they               were      perfectly
                                                  year      by Lord
right in doing so.  It was said last
EUenborough that Schleswig was a province which
                 to Denmark     for  n4o0t0inyeaanrost.herT. haItt  is
had belonged    in one sense,  but                                  is
perfectly true
true that it was a fief of the Danish Court, but for
many hundred years it was divided between the
different occupants of the throne ; and it was not
until the year 1720, the date of our own guarantee
of part of Schleswig, that the whole of that Duchy
was united to the Crown of Denmark, and then
it was united solely by a personal union. Remember
that, as long as Denmark was a despotism, a personal
union was a real union, because, as far as regards
external relations with foreign countries, a despotic
Sovereign wields the whole power of all his Crowns,
and in this case the King of Denmark had all the
power of the Duke of Schleswig and the Duke of
Holstein. But the moment you introduce respon
sible, liberal, and democratic government, the case is
entirely altered. Personal union ceases to be union
for any practical purpose whatever ; and unless the
three Parliaments agree, the King of Denmark has

1862-65]  SPEECH ON DANISH QUESTION                          227

not, as he formerly had, the power of the three
kingdoms united.

          *****

' Now, if you are to fight for Denmark in the present
war, you would be going to war to force the Schles-
wigers not to be united, as formerly, by a personal
union, but to be incorporated with Denmark. Is that

Ian object for which England could go to war ? will
Iput aside all question as to our power to meet alone

the whole German Confederation ; will put aside all
questions as to the danger and inconveniences which

Imight be incurred by England in such a war ; will
Ieven go the length of supposing that it was within our

power easily to effect our object ; and ask, Is it an
object which we have a right to go to war to effect, or
which we have the smallest chance of effecting with
Iany

that
regard to  justice or        gaonosdwepr.olicIyt  ?        apprehend
there can  be but one                                 not an object
                                                  is
Ithat we could propose to ourselves ; believe it is an
Iobject that we could not have effected. And am
satisfied that when the people of England find that
this is the only result for which they would have con
tended if they had gone to war, they will see that the
Government has abstained from war not merely from
selfish or unworthy considerations, but because we
really had not an object which it was within our right
or competence to contend for.
I Ian'yMthyingLorIdsh,aveit  will not be supposed     that in
           hope              intend to bear hard      against
            said
Ithe Danish Government or the Danish people ; much

less that it will be imagined that have the slightest
Isympathy with the course taken by the great German
Powers.   believe there is not a single partisan of
Germany in your Lordships' House. We may think,
and we do think, that the Danes have committed great
errors and great faults, but we are also of opinion that
those errors might have been corrected without
violence, and certainly atoned for without blood. . . .'
                                                      15--2

228           FOREIGN POLITICS  [chap. xxxv

   This speech produced a great effect on the House,
and the result of the division is shown by an extract
from the Duke's diary :

' We divided at 2 a.m., beating them by four in the
        but they had     ainmCaojomrimtyonsof--neinigehtebeyn.proGxrieeast.
House,  of the majority
Heard

excitement.'

   The vote of censure in the House of Commons on
the same date had been moved by Mr. Disraeli, in
reply to whom Lord Palmerston made a most striking
speech in defence of the whole policy of the Govern

ment.

   At the conclusion of the Conference the Austrian

and Prussian armies had recommenced hostilities
against Denmark, with the inevitable result that
Denmark was defeated, and compelled to resign all

claim to the Duchies.

CHAPTER XXXVI

                     1866-67

                     REFORM

After the withdrawal of the Reform Bill of 1860, no

other measure in this direction was introduced during

the lifetime of Lord Palmerston. But after his death,

in October, 1865, when Lord Russell became Prime

Minister, there was a general expectation that some

proposals of Reform would be laid before Parliament.

The change in the Premiership did not greatly
affect the personnel of the Government. Lord Claren

don succeeded Lord Russell at the Foreign Office,

while his place as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster

was filled by Mr. Goschen. Sir Charles Wood, who
had been obliged to resign the India Office on account

of illness, was succeeded by Lord de Grey, and Lord

Hartington became Secretary for War.

Soon after the General Election of 1865, which re

sulted in the return of the Liberal party with an in

creased majority, the Duke wrote to Mr. Gladstone :

  I' Yes, our majority is too big by half for " resting

and being thankful "; and have thought for some
time that, even if this had not been so, we still ought
Ito be considering some practical measure on the
question of Reform.  think we could carry any
reasonable measure ; though, of course, a new Parlia
ment will not like anything which would compel
another dissolution soon.'

230  REFORM  [chap. xxxvi

   The Bill, which was introduced by Mr. Gladstone

on March 12, 1866, was very moderate in tone. It

proposed to reduce the county franchise from £50
to £14, and the borough franchise from £10 to £7, and
included a clause for the enfranchisement of lodgers.
As in the case of the Bill of 1860, Parliament was

indifferent on the subject, and even Mr. Gladstone's

eloquence failed to arouse the interest of the House.
The Conservatives were united against the Bill, and
accused the Government of introducing only half of the

measure, and of concealing in the meantime the part

dealing with Redistribution. The Bill passed its first

reading two days later, and the second reading was
announced for April 12th.

   In the interval, Mr. Gladstone addressed a great
Reform meeting at Liverpool on April 6th, and the

Duke, who was present, refers in his journal to ' the
magnificent speech ' made by Mr. Gladstone on this

occasion. At a banquet held on the previous evening,

the Duke, replying to the toast of the ' House of
Lords,' spoke in support of the Reform Bill.

   Three days before the second reading of the Bill
the Duke wrote to Mr. Gladstone :

I' am very unwilling to give up " grouping,"*
even though it be on a small scale, and only as a

Icom' Amsenrceegmarednst. the line of disfranchisement,  see no
insuperable objection to Lord Russell's double rule
of a minimum of 5,000 population and 300 ten-
pounders, although, of course, the latter test is open
to the cavil that you should take the voters under
the new franchise and not under the old. But the

   * This refers to the proposal to group small boroughs together
instead of disenfranchising them.

1866-67]            ME. KINGLAKE'S MOTION                  231

ten-pounders are equally good as a test of relative

size and importance.

   ' This double test will take in Colne and Wilton, to
Ileave out which would seem to be ridiculous. As

regards this limited grouping, would simply take
this rule : Add all the boroughs deprived of exclusive
representation to the nearest borough of population
Iun'der,shsoauyl,d
                    10,000.   prefer  your  more extended  plan

                     greatly
oI f                 But if it be assumed that  this is hopeless,
      grouping.                                  because it can
      would not     reject grouping altogether

only be commenced on a small scale.
   ' Let us remember that we are very likely to be
obliged to appeal to the country, and with the country
a tolerably bold scheme is more likely to help us than

a small one.'

   On April 11th, 1866, Mr. Gladstone wrote to the
Duke :

      ' Have you made any progress in further investi
Igating the rate of growth in the £10 constitu
ency ?    should like much to know any new results
attained, and if there are none, to have once more the

pap' eMryyoburokthinedrlyspleeanktsmwe.armly of the effect of your
visit to Liverpool.'

   When the Bill came up for the second reading on
April 12, it was met by Mr. Kinglake's adverse motion,
' That it is not expedient to go into committee on the
said Bill until this House shall have before it the
expected Bill for the redistribution of seats.'

   The Government agreed that the Redistribution
Bill should be laid before the House without delay.

The Reform Bill passed the second reading by a

majority of five only.

    Meanwhile the Duke was endeavouring to avert the

232                         REFORM                  [chap. xxxvi

calamity which he saw was rapidly approaching.                                   On
April 26th he wrote to Mr. Gladstone :

' As on the subject of Redistribution you intend to
Ishow what our opponents really mean, and what they

aim at, so, on the subject of the Franchise, think
you may well show up what some, at least, of our

Iopp' oTnheenyts mean and   aim at.        call  a  " blank                      re
                denounce    what they
                      find  "thdiisscorbimjeicntaiotinngverreydcuocmtiomnon".--
duction."            is a                                                         What
is aimed at                                                                      that is
to say, one figure for small boroughs, and another for

large towns.
   ' They assume that all the small boroughs are cor
rup' tItanwdoualldl       big ones pure.
                     the  well to show up  this  common                          notion
                      be
by the fact, notorious to all, that bribery has been
detected in more large towns than in small ones.
   ' To deny a vote to a householder at Arundel who
has a good house for £7, and to give it to a room-
holder in Liverpool who pays the same rent for two
rooms, would be a violently unjust proposal. Yet
this is what is aimed at. Let bribery be severely
dealt with where detected, but don't let it be made a
pretext for wholesale injustice.'

   On the 19th of June the Government was defeated,

on an amendment brought forward by Lord Dun-
kellin, and the Ministers tendered their resignations
to the Queen. Her Majesty at first asked them to
reconsider their decision, but several members of the

Cabinet, including the Duke of Argyll, were strongly

of opinion that it was undesirable to carry on the

Government, on account of the absence of unanimity
in the party.

   The Queen therefore accepted Lord Russell's resig
nation, and Lord Derby was sent for and asked to
form an Administration.

18G0-67]  VISIT TO ROME  233

   After the resignation of the Liberal Government,

the Duke went to Scotland, and remained at Inveraray
for some months. Towards the end of October he

travelled with the Duchess and some of his family to

Rome, where he had arranged to spend the winter.
Mr. and Mrs. Gladstone and the Cardwells were in

Rome at the same time, as well as a number of other

friends.

   The Duke greatly enjoyed his visits to the different
galleries and churches, his delight in art making him
keenly appreciative of the treasures to be found in
Rome. The notes in his diary record his impressions
at the time, but they are, unfortunately, too brief for

transcription.

   In addition to English friends, the Duke had many
Italian acquaintances in Rome, and while there he
was received by the Pope, and visited the King, in

company with Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Cardwell. He

also became acquainted with several of the Cardinals.
He was especially attracted by Cardinal Grassellini,
whom he described as a ' charming old man.' They
met frequently in Rome, and had amicable discussions
on religious questions, regarding which their views
were necessarily entirely opposed. They were, how
ever, in sympathy on broader issues, as is shown by
a letter which, after his return to England, the Duke
received from the Cardinal, to whom he had sent a
copy of his book, ' The Reign of Law.' Cardinal
Grassellini wrote as follows :

   ' Excellence,
        ' J'ai a peine acheve la lecture du charmant

livre que vous avez voulu m'envoyer, et je me hate
de prendre la plume pour vous remercier, et pour vous
assurer du plaisir et de 1' admiration que j'ai eprouve

234     REFORM                                                            [CHAP. XXXVI

en   lbeielnisanimt psoérrtieaunstemaergnut.menVto--usLaavelzoi  choisi   un grand
et                                                                 c'est    dans le

Monde Physique et dans le Monde Moral la pensée
de Dieu, le doigt de Dieu, sa Création, sa Providence,
son Omnipotence. Vous avez très-bien promené ce
doigt de Dieu par tout le Royaume de la Nature et
par tout la Société Civile, vous avez encore su le
retrouver dans les profondeurs de l'âme et dans
l'intelligence de la Créature, image et ressemblance de

Dieu. A la belle analyse de ces grands sujets vous
avez ajouté une constante clarté, un ordre, une

élégance, une richesse de connaissances qui rendent
votre livre très - intéressant et très - instructif aux
grands penseurs, comme aux gens du monde. Je vais
en répéter la lecture, et je me trouve maintenant
encore plus heureux de notre voyage d'Ancone à

Ro'mAeg.réez, etc. Toujours avec l'espoir de vous revoir
à Rome
        ' Votre serviteur dévoué,

                 ' Le Cardinal Grassellini.'

   The party in Rome broke up early in the New Year,
and the Duke and Mr. Gladstone returned to London
in time for the opening of Parliament in February,

1867.

   The British electors had not shown much enthusiasm
about Mr. Gladstone's Reform Bill of 1866, but public
interest was now aroused, even in the most remote
districts of the country, and this accounted for the

action taken by the Conservative party on the subject
of Reform. The question had been a matter of dis
cussion between the Duke and Mr. Gladstone when
they were together in Rome, and they agreed in the
opinion that the country would not accept from the
Tories a measure of Reform as moderate as Mr. Glad
stone had proposed. The Bill, however, which was

1866-67]  LIMITATION OF SUFFRAGE               235

brought forward by Mr. Disraeli, proved to be a
thoroughly Radical measure, which, by the intro
duction of Household Suffrage, involved the enfran
chisement of a much larger number of citizens than had
been proposed in Mr. Gladstone's Bill. The Liberals
were naturally totally unprepared for the introduction

by a Conservative Government of a Radical measure so
much in advance of any reform of the franchise which

they had contemplated, although the Bill was eventu

ally carried by the help of a section of the Opposition,

who voted with the Government.
   The Duke's letters to Mr. Gladstone show that

he held to the idea of limitation of the franchise.
On April 23rd, 1867, when recovering from a short
attack of illness caused by a severe chill, he wrote :

   ' Till within the last two days, it has been a labour

Ito me to write at all, else should have written to
Iyou long ago to say how much felt for you in the
Idesertion of so many who ought to have behaved
better.   really believe that cowardice about a disso
lution was more at the bottom of it than anything
etolsev, octoeupalegdainwsitth"soHmoeusceohwoaldrdicSeufafrbaoguet."beinBgutsupbpesoisdeeds
these feelings there is a thoroughly discontented spirit,
and a great desire to limit by every possible and
                            anything   like a
Ipla'usibclaen'dtevhieclep   thinking   that   large enfranchisement.
                                               on some main points
*****as supporting the amendments of individual members.
the Liberal party will yet be compelled to vote straight.
But probably you are right in supposing that the
chances of this will be increased if you appear simply

  I' mean to go to Scotland in the first week of May,
I Iwhen have some county business, and look forward
Ito this as more likely to set me up again than anything
else.     ought to be at Inveraray for a meeting on the

236                              REFOKM                                     [chap. xxxvi

I8th May, and hope to get a fortnight there among
the hyacinths. Nothing will come up to the Lords till
IJuly,
          suppose.   of      an  afomreintsdmobejnetctotfowdheifcinheM"ahcoLuasreen"
  I'  like the idea

has given notice, having
so as to require a certain minimum of decent accom
                                       forget that
m" ohdoautsieon".    People  seem to   or a cellar,                         at present a
                   may be    a garret                                       with a whole
family pigging together, including thus the lowest of
the population.'

                   To Mr. Gladstone {April 21th).
    I' hope to meet you on Wednesday at Chiswick.
I"  fear that any effort     "onwyoouuldr                               part now to get rid of
    Household Suffrage                                                  again divide and pro
Iclaim the division of the Liberal party. But don't
say that this is   ma icnodnctluhsaivt easar"guhmouesnet                    "agias innsot wit,deiffinyeodu
make up your
I It"hhi'soussucefofrn"afegsems ewainllsdboenan'atyrleikaroel ormiistk  to
                                                                        at  the country.
                                                                        or  all, considering that
                                                                            cellar which has a

separate entrance, and the more chance there is of
succeeding in getting rid of the Government restric
tions, the more need there is of some definition which
shall help to exclude the very lowest and most ignorant
class. * * * * *
  I' Someone has sent me a review of my book* in

the Guardian, and am very much pleased with the
Iclear and accurate account or abstract it gives of
the main argument.               wonder who writes it ?'

   During the debate in the House of Lords on the

Government measure, on July 23rd, 1867, the Duke

said:

   ' The noble Earl [the Earl of Derby] did indeed, in
moving the second reading, explain to us last night

                              * 'The Reign of Law.'

1866-67]                   SPEECH ON REFORM         237

how it came to pass that the Government had pro
posed this measure, but he said nothing to allay the
fears which he and his colleagues have awakened in
the minds of Parliament and of the country with
respect to any measure which should swamp the
present constituencies by the mere power of numbers.
He told us that he introduced this Bill because he
was unwilling to be a stop-gap, but he failed to tell
us why, rather than be a stop-gap, he had deemed it

*****to be his duty to become a weather-cock.
' Do not let us conceal from ourselves the magnitude
Iof the                                             to give our
                                                    apprehend,
assent.
          chaItngisesnoto   which we are now about
                           mere matter of opinion,
but matter of simple fact, that we are about to agree
to the second reading of a Bill which, not twelve
months, but six months ago, at the beginning of this
session, no member of this House would have ventured
to propose, and which, if it had been proposed, would
have   boefen"       by your Lordships with a unanimous
shout           met
                     content !" It does, indeed, at times
                Not
occur in matters of long controversy that some new
and happy thought removes all difficulties and recon
ciles all opinions, but it is not with a case of that
nature that we have now to deal. The noble and
Ilearned Lord on the Woolsack

talked of a compromise, and this
                           B[Lilolrdis,             Chelmsford]
                                                        admit, so

sscfaouorbmfjaepacrrsot amstoihsrfeeel--caorteenosdtre,issttrtoraitbthbhueeetrti,wobenoietrnooiusfgdhiafsfeemfarretaesnnrtechisimspeaacr--kotienetscshhe--arifnttleeg;dtr,beuauatst
not conceal from ourselves the fact that the Bill is
no compromise, for on that point it is a measure of

entire and complete surrender of every opinion that
has ever been held or expressed by the Conservative

*****party in this country.
   ' You will, therefore, have under the operation of
this Bill a total of 440,000 electors belonging to the

238                         REFORM         [CHAP. XXXVI

working classes, as against 249,000 belonging to the
middle and upper classes of society. That, my Lords,

*****is the nature of the change to which we are asked to

give our assent, and to which we are asked to give
our assent, too, by a Conservative Government, the
leader of which told us a few years ago that he con

ceived it to be his mission and that of his party to

stem the tide of democracy.
I' have no confidence whatsoever in these new
schemes for a complete reconstruction of the British
IC" oAnmsteitruictaionniz. ingLa"st        great deal about
         year               we heard a            suppose we
         our                institutions.
shall hear of it no more. As regards American insti
tutions and our own, what is the essential difference
between them ? Has it not been this : that ours have
          a growth, theirs
b--eean  device admirably   have been emphatically   a device
                              contrived, indeed, by  some of

the greatest statesmen and politicians that ever
spoke the English tongue, but necessarily adapted to
the circumstances of a new country ? Ours is a
system which has grown for many generations, and
*****although you talk of the balances of the Constitution,

they are balances which arise from the condition of
society, from the feelings entertained by one class
towards another, and not by legal powers placed by
Act of Parliament in the hands of one class to check
the action of another.
  I' May not suggest, however, that it is possible that

the great political change we are now called upon to
assent to, by which the political influence of the
working classes will be largely increased, will also
stimulate and increase the regard in which these
claims will be held by those above them ; that it will
tend to bring about a more friendly consideration of
their claims, a greater sympathy with their complaints,
a more candid allowance even for their prejudices and

1866-67]           SCOTTISH REFORM BILL                     239

errors, and that in this way a most beneficent result
may follow from our labours ? . . .'

After a debate which continued for two nights, the

Bill passed the second reading without a division.

The work of Parliamentary Reform was continued

by the introduction, in the following year, of a Reform

Bill for Scotland. The main feature of the Bill was the

increase in the number of representatives for Scotland.

The measure was introduced in the House of Commons

by the Lord Advocate for Scotland (Mr. Moncrieff*),
and in the House of Lords by Lord Malmesbury. The

Government proposal had been to add the extra

Scottish members to the numbers of the House,

but an amendment was carried to disfranchise seven

of the smallest boroughs in England, and transfer the

representation to Scotland.

   On the subject of the Scottish Reform Bill many

letters passed between the Duke and Mr. Gladstone.

Mr. Gladstone intended to oppose the proposal of the

Government to increase the number of Scottish

representatives. The Duke implored him not to do

this, warning him that such a course would lead to

Scottish members voting for the Government, which

would simply aggravate the disorganization of the

party. A letter to Mr. Gladstone from the Duke

(January 30th, 1868) indicates the position of affairs :

I' saw Moncrieff. He told me that his own private
opinion has been that all party action which might
involve vital issues should be avoided till the new
Parliament met. But he said he had been persuaded
by the arguments used, or at least by the opinion
                   at the            with you.
exp' rNeosswe,d,I  know    meeting    influence  exercised  by your
                           well the

                   * Afterwards Lord Moncrieff'.

240                    REFORM            [CHAP. XXXVI

Iface and earnestness upon those who hear you. But

  know also that sometimes when they leave the room
they have misgivings as to whether they have been
convinced, or merely carried away, and my impression
is that Moncrieff is even now in this condition of

Imind.

   ' therefore must beseech you to have this matter
again carefully considered. My own view is decidedly
that during this coming session no attempt should be

made to test party fidelity. But even if it be deter
mined to apply any such test, surely it would be unwise
to select for the purpose a vote on which Scottish
members would have to choose between party fidelity
and running the risk of losing for Scotland additional

Irepresentation.

   ' admit the necessity sooner or later of putting an
end to the condition of things in which a normal leader
is regularly deserted  by his            at the moment when
he orders a charge.     But    amll enI
                                         say is, postpone till
the new Parliament all attempts to rally or to test
party allegiance, and above all choose a vote on which
the tendencies of our party are as far as possible
undivided.'

     To Mr. Gladstone {February 1st, 1868).

   ' My own impression is that the failure in our own
Reform Bill, and in the fight of last session, arose
mainly from the false position in which so many men
had placed themselves by their own timorous and
cowardly policy. But whatever the cause may have
been, it is a cause operating still, and it will operate
so long as the present Parliament lasts, upon all
questions connected    with Reform.      The less they are
tried or trusted the                     be possible to do
                       better. It may
something towards laying better foundations in the
next Parliament.'

1866-67]          SCOTTISH REFORM BILL PASSED                  241

          To Mr. Gladstone {February 3rd, 1868).

' As regards the expediency of trying some testing
Iquestion before the dissolution, much depends on the
temper of the party.                fear it is as bad as ever. All
the causes of estrangement which operated last session
are in operation still. They feel that they treated you
ill, and the whole subject of Reform with insincerity.
I' Clarendon,     take it, is as good a judge as most
Imen of the temper of those around him.
                                                               asked
him a couple of months ago (in writing on another
matter) what impression he had from seeing people
during the late autumn session. His reply was that
he thought the party as disorganized as ever, and
                  cross as ever.
peo' pIflethaiss                    would only  be  to  court  defeat
                   is the case, it
to fight with such troops. Of course, battle forced
          you must be accepted, but not otherwise.
Iupon     look for a great change in the new Parliament.
    '
Although Reform may not be out of the way, because of
Ithe redistribution question, yet its disorganizing in

fluence will be abated, and agree with the Daily
News that your hold over the country is a very different
thing from your hold over the present House of

Commons.'

   No serious opposition was offered to the Bill, which
passed both Houses, and became law on July 13th,

1868.

VOL. II.                                                10

          CHAPTER XXXVII

                         1867-69

DISESTABLISHMENT OF THE IRISH CHURCH

Two changes of great moment in the world of British
politics occurred before the General Election in
November, 1868. Mr. Disraeli succeeded Lord Derby
as head of the Government in February of that year,
and, Lord Russell having in December, 1867, announced
his intention of retiring from public life, Mr. Gladstone

became leader of the Liberal party.

  It was now generally understood in Liberal circles

that Mr. Gladstone's first move would be in the direc

tion of the Disestablishment of the Irish Church. In

his letters to the Duke, Mr. Gladstone had repeatedly
urged the consideration of that question, and the matter

was also frequently discussed between them.
   To Mr. Gladstone, on October 12th, 1867, the Duke

wrote :

  I I' Events seem to be moving quickly in favour of

total secularization, though, confess, think this a
violent course. Yet, if the Irish people do not care
          something in the nature of what they
          uses," feel no objection to seculari
Irteogkaerdepatsith"epsiofuosr
zation.'

On the 10th of March, 1868, a motion was brought

                                242

1867-69]  THE SUSPENSORY BILL                           248

ber, on the social disorganization of Ireland, where

there had been a widespread and dangerous Fenian

movement. The situation was, indeed, serious enough

to justify some strenuous attempt towards the re

moval of the causes of discontent, and Mr. Gladstone

took advantage of this opportunity to introduce his
proposals with regard to the Irish Church. He was
supported by the Liberal party, which, being in a

majority, carried these motions against the Govern

ment. The eventual result of this Liberal victory
was the dissolution of the Government the following

autumn.

   In the meantime Mr. Gladstone followed up his
series of resolutions by a Suspensory Bill, provid

ing that no new vested interests should be created.

This Bill passed the House of Commons, but was
thrown out by the House of Lords. On June 29th,

1868, the Duke made a speech on behalf of the measure,

from which the following passage is quoted :

I' sincerely believe that a great deal of the disaffec
tion of the Irish people   is  purely    traditional.     There
is a wonderful continuity  in  the life  of nations --  terrible

where the antecedents have been bad ; happy, even
blessed, where the antecedents have been good. And
herein consists the folly (I do not use the word in a
disrespectful sense) of connecting the cause of the Irish

Church with the cause of the Established Church in
England. Of the Church of England it may be said
that she has been the symbol of national life at great

Iperiods of our history, and that she has been, and
trust still is, the standard-bearer of the Protestant
feelings and opinions of the people. But can it be
said of the Irish Church that she ever has been the
symbol of national life to the Irish people ? Can it
be said that she represents the religious feelings of

the people ? No ; the contrary is the fact. And if

                                         16--2

244 DISESTABLISHMENT OF IRISH CHURCH [chap. xxxvii

the disaffection of the Irish people is a purely tra
ditional disaffection, at least you must admit that the
Established Church is a traditional remembrance of

Ithe miseries and oppressions of their former history.

In this respect cannot for a moment doubt that it

will, to a very great extent, pacify and conciliate the
thinking and moderate people of Ireland that this
great anomaly and injustice, as we think it, should be
removed from among them.'

  Towards the end of July the Duke, with his family,
left Argyll Lodge for Macharioch, Campbeltown.

While there he suffered from the first attack of gout

which he had ever experienced. A month later the

Duke and Duchess proceeded to Inveraray, and from

there he wrote to Mr. Gladstone (September 5th) :

I' Of the six weeks we have had in Scotland have
Ibeen spending about four in bed or on a sofa. But

  am nearly sound again. . . .
' Lord and Lady Russell came the day before yester
Iday. He was tired by the journey, and see he is
Ifeeble.  can also see from Lady Russell's manner
that she is anxious. But he is cheerful and full of

anecdote and conversation.
   ' When do you open your lips again ? This inter

regnum is a most disagreeable time.'

              To Mr. Gladstone {September 12th).

  I' Do gather rightly from your letter that you have

djboeaue'yrnLnoehilreyldr--e? R--buusthseehlelhapidsickpebhedeynsuicptairlvleyedryfebemybulecahnanaedflteevvreenrtyhehodufeirrassf'.t

ILady Russell told me it was a great trial to him. . . .

   ' had a good deal of talk with him. He shows
some little irritation about the Suspensory Bill, but

1867-69] DEATH OF DUCHESS OF SUTHERLAND                                       245

assumes that it might be continued from year to year,
and keep the Church in a state of suspended animation
between life and death.

  I I' told him entirely agreed with him in thinking
Ithat this would be most mischievous, and that knew

you held the same opinion : that the Suspensory Bill
was a mere temporary expedient--
   ' 1. To convince the Irish people that we intended
action and not mere talk.
   ' 2. To place all parties in a position compelling
them to come to terms.
   ' He fully admitted the force of these reasons, but
he returns                the same position.
   ' He has,  always to   the same desire which                     all  the  old
              of course,  the Irish
                            But he
IW" RhiogysalhaSvueprteomkaeceyp."   Church bound to the
                                     has no clear idea how
it is to be done, and, so far as can see, no such idea
is attainable or desirable.
   ' Lady Russell spoke as if she, at least, had been

thinking of a winter abroad for him. But she said
that the interest of politics was too absorbing to him,
that she could not get him to think of it, especially at
this time. He was most agreeable and charming in
conversation, and his memory is as strong as ever.

**** *
  I' am off on Monday to stay
I have established a little inn.     aI  week                   on  Iona,   where
                                          wish                  to  see it  in its
m" oervneirnlagstinagnd heilvlsen"ingandasptheectsc. oloTuhrse  outline of
                                                                of the sea    the
                                                                              are

wonderfully beautiful there.'

   While he was at Inveraray Lord Russell planted a
small tree, grown from an acorn which he had picked
up and given to the Duke during a walk which they
had had together at Pembroke Lodge. This tree still
flourishes, and has now attained to a considerable

size.

   On October 18th the Duke was called to London,

246 DISESTABLISHMENT OF IRISH CHURCH [chap, xxxvii

owing to the serious illness of his mother-in-law, the

Dowager Duchess of Sutherland, who died about a

week later. Her death was a great loss to the Duke,

as a devoted attachment existed between them. After

the funeral had taken place at Trentham, the Duke re

turned to Scotland for some weeks. From Inveraray

he wrote to Mr. Gladstone, while the General Election

was proceeding (November 19th, 1868) :

    'AufbeeelroinnclinHeedrbteort,say"  to you, as  I heard Bright say
                                        Now, do
Ito                                                 be quiet," for if
Iyou don't you will kill yourself.                  am wondering how
much of you is left, on the modern doctrine of science
about the equivalents of force. So much brain-work
can only be done at the expenditure of so much of
physical force as is expended in the nerves, etc. Two
speeches a day, for three or four days in succession,
                            from the other,
ereadch-hodtiffsehroetnt--  where does the   and each discharging
                                             equivalent come from
that is to restore you to what you were ? How much
Gladstone has been worn away ?
' Our wedding is to be on the 23rd of December, and
we hope you and Mrs. Gladstone will be at it. Only
don't say anything about it, as we must keep it as
quiet as we can. We know what she* would have
wished, and, indeed, did say she wished.'

   The marriage here alluded to was that of the Duke's
eldest daughter to Earl Percy, now Duke of North
umberland.

   The General Election resulted in a large majority
for the Liberal party. Mr. Disraeli resigned office
before the meeting of Parliament, and Mr. Gladstone
was summoned to Windsor on December 5th to receive
Her Majesty's commands to form a Government.

   In the new Administration the Duke held the office

                     * The Dowager Duchess of Sutherland.

1867-69] DISENDOWMENT AND COMPENSATION                                      247

of Secretary of State for India ; Lord Clarendon was
Secretary for Foreign Affairs ; Lord Granville, Secre
tary for the Colonies; and Mr. Cardwell, Secretary
for War.

   The main issue on which the General Election had

been decided was the question of the Disestablishment
of the Irish Church, Mr. Gladstone's policy on this
subject having already been outlined by the resolu
tions proposed by him and carried against the Con

servative Government.

   When the Bill was actually introduced in the new
Parliament (March 1st, 1869), the interest lay chiefly
in the questions of compensation arising out of dis-
endowment. The Bill passed the House of Commons,
and, during the second reading in the House of Lords,
on June 18th, the Duke advocated the measure in a

long and eloquent speech. He said :

I' We are bound to remember, and trust we do
remember, that in the discharge of what we believe
to be a public duty to the Sovereign and the people,
it has been our lot to propose to Parliament a measure
which is opposed to the dearest associations and to the
mHoousste.cheIristhheindk,coanlsvoi,ctwioensareofbaoulnadrgeto  portion of  the
                                                                remember    not

only the greatness of the change which we propose,
I Ib"uatp, parenatdmsitu,ddeitnsneaspsp,"arebnetcaussueddteonntehsoss.e    say its
                                                                       who have

been watching the causes which operate on the public
opinion of the country, and ultimately determine the
course of Parliament, the wonder is, not that this
                                  but rather that it
measure   Ihas come so suddenly,  admit that to those
has been
          so long delayed. But
who have been walking in the by-paths, so to speak,
of public life, and have not been watching the causes
which determine the course of public feeling, this
change must appear to have been brought about very

248 DISESTABLISHMENT OP IRISH CHURCH [chap. xxxvii

Isuddenly. And with regard to the greatness of the
change,  agree that no measure which has been
brought into this House in the present century may
compare with this in the importance of the issues which

it involves and the interests which it affects. Not the
repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts ; not the great
measure of Catholic Emancipation ; not the repeal
of the Corn Laws and the Reform of Parliament ;
not any one of those questions involved issues so im
portant, or cut so deeply into matters affecting such
cherished associations and opinions of great portions
Iof the people, as this measure for the disestablishment
and disendowment of the Irish Church.              admit, also,

that so short a time as three years ago it is extremely
Iprobable it could not have been proposed by any
public man with any prospect of success.                         think it
is perfectly natural, therefore, that one in the position
of my noble friend who moved the rejection of this
measure, finding this great rapid stream of public
opinion dashing past him, and sweeping away institu
tions which he had been accustomed to consider as

most sacred and most secure, should open his eyes
with  ininfhinisiteopseunripnrgisespaenedch,ask",   as my noble  friend did
ask                                                How has all   this come

about, and how has this measure so suddenly been
brought forward ?" But the more you examine this
question, the more clearly you will see how absolutely
final and irrevocable is the verdict given on this subject
by all the great political parties in this country.'

   Repudiating the assertion that the Bill originated in
the individual will of Mr. Gladstone, the Duke con
tinued :

   ' That is to attribute effects to the will of my right
honourable friend which neither his nor any other
individual's will was competent to produce. We have
also been told to-night that the present House of
Commons was elected merely to bring Mr. Gladstone

1867-69]  SPEECH ON IRISH CHURCH BILL                                                                                     249

into power, and that it was under the influence of his
Igenius and of admiration for his character that the

elections were held. Now, what wish to point out
is that Mr. Gladstone's influence was, at least, not
Ipredominant in the late Parliament, in which this
proposition was first brought forward.                                          desire to

direct your attention to the circumstances under
which this measure was proposed. The House of
Commons became, after the death of Lord Palmerston,
thoroughly disorganized and demoralized. We are
at liberty to speak of the late House of Commons with
ICashamrleuschII.f,reaenddom  as of a Parliament in the time of
                              say that it was a Parliament which
had no faith in any principle,                                                  in any
cause, and no fidelity to any   lneoadeenr.thusItiaswmas                         under

these circumstances, when the vessel of the State
had no way upon her, that suddenly a cry arose that
tbahegiasindIroinsaehliveqf.ouer sItItiorenwl,aanwsdh--tihcehthnehasdaoidlbdeethnIraisstohsloondmgiefftiahcsiulnelgteyp,    was
                                                                                                                          must

                                                                                                                           was
again before our public men, and it became clear that
Parliament must make up its mind as to what should
Ibe done for the benefit of the Irish people. What was
the answer to that cry ?        am not  gfoorinIg   to quote the
words of Lord Mayo or of      any man,             may say that
the answer was in the air : it was in the very atmo
tsipvheesreinofrefoeurrenpcoelittiocatlhelifeIr.ishThCehruercwhe--reintdwisocraimlteinrnaate
endowment, and disestablishment with disendowment.
What was the effect of that announcement ? The
immediate effect was that out of absolute chaos there
came order, and an assembly which had been
tfohroreofufegchtliyvedispoorlgitaicnaizledactbioenca. meItwewlal sdrliilkleed        fitted
                                                                                and  action
                                                                                the

of a powerful magnet passed over a mass of what
seems mere dust and rubbish, but which nevertheless
contains elements capable of attraction. The raising
of that standard of disestablishment at once collected
under it all the elements of liberal opinion in the

250 DISESTABLISHMENT OF IRISH CHURCH [chap. xxxvii

IHouse of Commons.             ask the noble Duke, who
attributes to so small causes these so grave effects,
what is the explanation of that phenomenon ? Was
it the personal influence      oNfo.Mr.ItGlawdastsonethein         the late
House of Commons ?                                                powerful
action of causes which lie deeply seated in the history
of the country. . . .  My noble                     thfraiet n"d
said, on a memorable                                               (Earl Russell)
                       occasion,                                  the aristocracy

Iof this country were strong in the memory of immortal

services." My Lords, trust we are strong in better
things. We cannot live on the memory of the dead.
We must show that we are able to appreciate the
great currents of public feeling which have formed
the great parties of this country, and determined the
course of political action. We must show that we
are as able as the other House to appreciate the
teaching of events. And if ever there has been a
course of events which seemed more than another of a
providential character, and to lead to one foregone

conclusion, it is that series of events which, with
apparent suddenness, but with long previous prepara
tion, has brought this great measure to the table of
your Lordships' House. Noble Lords opposite may
say with truth that not all movements are movements
I Iof progress, and that there may be such things as
movements in     the wrong direction.                     ofadSmtaittest.hatI.t  is
believe in the   decay and in the fall
the duty of the Liberal party in this country, and in
every other, to question themselves and others care
fully from time to time whether the movements in
which they take part, and before which they are
sometimes driven, are movements in a right or in a
wrong direction. But, measured by all the criteria
which distinguish strength from weakness, justice from
iInjauvsotiwce,mpyolictiocnavl icetnioenrgythaantd  life  from political
                                                    the   movement in     decay,
                                                                          which
                               movement in the right direc
we are  Intowis  engaged is a    due to enlightened reason,
tion.             a movement
and, better still, to awakened conscience. We desire

1867-69]          BILL PASSED                                            25*

to  Ewnipgelaonudt--thoeurfopuoleliscty  stain upon the name   and fame
of                                                              We wish
                                         to the Irish people.
to signify our adherence to the great principle that
religious truth is not to be supported at the cost of
political injustice. We desire to bring into the domain
of politics the great Christian law of doing to others
as we would be done by. These are the great

Iprinciples upon which this measure is founded, and
say that these are not the indications of political
decrepitude or decay. This House has been repeat
edly advised to assent to the second reading of this
Imeasure, mainly because it                                    us   by the
                                                                 a   higher
convictions of the people.
                                         isBpurtessIedhaovne
ambition for your Lordships' House ; desire to see
this House share in the great honours of their time,
and my firm conviction is that in the course of a few
years the passing of this measure will be looked upon
as one of the greatest triumphs of constitutional
                  dasiffiacuslttepoffoarlwl awrodr,ksa--ndthtehawt isae  long
government, and                                                          and
one, in the most
the just government of mankind.'

   The second reading of the Bill in the House of
Lords was carried by a majority of thirty-three ;
but it was amended in Committee, and, although

the House of Commons made some minor conces

sions, the provisions of the measure were substan
tially the same when it was sent back to the House
of Lords.

   On the second occasion it was thrown out by a
majority of seventy-eight, but eventually a compro
mise was effected between the leaders of the two

parties, and the Bill became law on July 26th, 1869.

   During the Easter recess the Duke had spent some
days in the Isle of Wight, where he visited the Poet
Laureate at Farringford. While there he had some
discussion with Mr. Tennyson on the Irish Church

252 DISESTABLISHMENT OF IRISH CHURCH [chap. xxxvii

question, which he mentions in writing to Mr. Glad

stone (March 31st, 1869) :

' You will be glad to hear that the report you heard
about Tennyson's opinions was quite false. We told
him of it yesterday, when he repudiated any dis
approval of   IrytoiosuhursCItrhhiuserhcnhpeowalsicpayo,egamrenadot fs"athiidnejuh"setSiacalenw.g"aryesal  con
sidered the
                                                                                                           "--
   ' He read
very fine. He is writing another, a preface to the
Arthurian cycle, which will then be completed.'

   The Duke spent the autumn months at Inveraray,
during which time he made an expedition to the island
of Iona, accompanied by the Dean of Westminster
and Lady Augusta Stanley. At the end of October
he returned to London to attend to the work of the
India Office. He was recalled to Inveraray early in
December by the sudden and dangerous illness of the
Duchess, who had left town the previous week. On
his arrival he wrote to Mr. Gladstone :

  I' find my dear wife recovering, but recovering from

an attack of that terrible malady which has just carried
off her sister, Lady Blantyre.'

   For a time the Duke contemplated the resignation
of his Office, as he doubted the possibility of life in
London for the Duchess in the future; but he was

urged by his colleagues to reconsider the matter,
and as, after some weeks of great anxiety, the Duchess
recovered a fair measure of health and strength, this

step was rendered unnecessary.

              CHAPTER XXXVIII

                                                            1870

                         THE IRISH LAND BILL

Early in 1870, Mr. Gladstone brought forward an

Irish Land Bill, of which the three ' grand pro
visions,' as defined in his own words, were as follows :

   1. The confirmation of Irish customs.
   2. The assertion of the principle that improvements
made by the tenant were the property of the tenant.
   3. That damages for eviction were to be paid to the

tenant.
   The following correspondence with Mr. Gladstone

about this period indicates the Duke's views on the
subject of the Bill :

         To Mr. Gladstone {November 26th, 1869).

  I' had to defend ourselves and you last night from

the charge of being low and depressed. We shall have

Ito put our foot down firmly soon about Ireland.

   ' With regard to the Irish Land, do not think we
can or ought to pass any Bill which does not leave a
large discretionary power to some cheap and local
tribunal. The Act can do no more than lay down
general principles. The application of these to each
case must depend on a thousand circumstances, which
can only be judged of by a local tribunal.

   ' For example, even in the strongest case of per
manent improvements, if these were made under a
long lease at a low rent, the improvements have either

                                                                     253

254       THE IRISH LAND BILL    [chap. xxxviii

been already wholly compensated for, or compensated
for in greater part. So, in the case of bad cultivation,
the landlord must have opportunities of proving

ICddaouems'' tsHaoegmhneaosdt"atoyaatsshhlwiiestnhtektepesrrhobthaaptolasel-itrsdhtayacmy.vaeynfrbtoooembjgaeinScvtspeiwoennehscriemedr,.tforseastyhhinegpo"wthUearlsst tehtoer

deal with Fenianism. Let us go with what is right,
but at the same time show the teeth of a strong

executive.'

          From Mr. Gladstone {November 2§th).

I' Give to Irish Land all the thought that India will
let you.  go with Lord Spencer if he accords to your
Iargument on the tenant right all the praise of clear

ness, vigour, and decision. But forgive me if say
that it does not, and cannot, conclude the question,
because it does not grapple with the allegation on
which the advocates for tenant right found them

selves.'

          To Mr. Gladstone {November 2Qth, 1869).

  'I   am all against sitting  in perpetual sackcloth    anIdt
       because the Irish are   violent and disaffected.
ashes
is true, no doubt, that Ireland formerly has been ill-
used and ill-governed ; and it is true also that the
diseased condition of the country is due in some measure
to those old sins of England. But for the last two

generations at least there has been a general dispo
sition to deal justly with Ireland, and not only a dispo
Isition, but a steady            in legislative reform.
    ' feel quite sure  progress  language of self-reproach
                       that the
and humiliation may very easily be overdone in the

Ipresent state of Ireland, and that it is entirely thrown

away on the spirit of Fenianism, and think it tends
to make men, already highly excited, expect sweeping
changes, corresponding in importance to the depths of

1870]                          TENANT RIGHT                         255

Itehxepercetpinegntasnuccceesswefroexmpre"shs.eroic  agree with  you in not
                                                     remedies."    But if we

cannot save life or property except by exceptional

measures, surely it will be right to take them. Spencer
writes to me that he thinks he must have fresh powers.

  I' feel as anxious as anyone about the state of
IIreland. But am quite as afraid of heroic remedies
in the way of legislation as in the way of executive

action.'

       From Mr. Gladstone {December 1st, 1869).

   ' Your letter would lead by its terms to the suppo
sition that you dissent from the proposal to recognise
what Dufferin calls anticipated profits, and from the
IChancellor's recognition of the same                       thing in another
for'mTh; ebuatdvobcaetlieesve   this is not          so.
                               of tenant                    in Ireland, as I
                                                     right
understand them (I mean such of them as your minute

deals with), rest their argument on certain allegations :
   ' 1. That the land of Ireland, when not so governed,
is 'g2ro. sTslhyatunwdaenr-tcuoltfivcaotenfdid. ence and security is the
main cause of this under-cultivation.
   ' 3. That there is a treasure in the soil, if brought
to a tolerable standard of culture, which will pay the
present rents or more, the present tenant's profit and
much more, and the charge of the tenant right also.
   ' 4. That this practical confidence and security are
giv'eTnhebythteirndanotfritghhets.e propositions is more
out in a paper sent herewith for perusal.                        I  fully  set

                                                                     drew   it
in the course of some long and very satisfactory com
munications with Halifax.

  I' treat them, you will observe, as allegations, not
Ias facts, and am doing all in my power to get to the
Ibottom of them.

   ' As far as understand your arguments, they do
not in any way touch the subject-matter of any of

them.

256        THE IRISH LAND BILL                   [chap. xxxvtii

  I' Have you read much on Irish tenure and disturb
Iances ? would recommend it ; for the matter is very

grave, and, feeling my own inadequate knowledge,
         all others will get as much as  they can.
Ihop' e  think you will be surprised     at the evidence  as
to the extent of country on which some kind of tenant
right is familiarly known, and was practised, though
scarcely with consent or knowledge of all parties, in
Ireland.'

   The Duke wrote to Mr. Cardwell on December 29th,
1869:

I' My dear Cardwell,         I  was      called  away  from

      ' On the day on which
London had a long conversation with Gladstone on
Ithe Irish Land question.
   ' suppose that we are all agreed that some recog
I Inition must be given to the Ulster custom where it

now exists. Bad as think the custom is, do not
think we can help giving to it the sanction which would
probably have been already accorded to it if it had
Iexisted in England.
   ' therefore intimated to Gladstone my assent to
Ithis proposition.
                    intimated assent, also, to this
   ' But, further,
second general proposition, that local custom
usage is the safest basis of legislation everywhere.      anIdt
has the obvious advantage of evading and avoiding
to some extent the discussion of abstract principles,
and of limiting the proposed legislation to Ireland, by
the very fact of professing to be founded on Irish

customs.
   ' The question, then, becomes one of evidence how
far beyond the Ulster area customs of tenant right can
be proved to prevail with more or less assent and con
sent, or, at least, connivance.

  I' cannot judge on this question with any con
Ifidence, but observe that the Devon Commission

1870]                    TENANT RIGHT                        257

gives rather a strong assertion as to its prevalence in
the'   South and West.
       But now comes the  difficulty.    What is to be done
         there is no evidence of custom at all
         reply to this question, am disposed
Iwh'eIrne                                         ?   take   the

                                                  to
ground generally indicated by the Chancellor : that,
as regards tenants at will below a certain size of holding,
there should be    statutory   compensation     for  eviction.
   ' Two further    questions                         conceded.
                                 arise if this   be
First, what sort of scale of compensation shall be given ?
and, second, what should be the upward limit as to the
size of  holding
         reply to  ?     first of these  questions,   there  will
   ' In
                    the
be obvious convenience in regulating the scale by that
which actually now prevails where tenant right exists.
IIInfinredp, lythtaot
            the    second question, Lord  Dufferin    agrees,
            ten    acres is much too low  a limit.
a question of degree.                                 This is
                                     should not be disposed
willingly to go above, say, £50 of rent. In Scotland,
Igenerally, tenants below £50 are tenants at will,

seldom holding under lease. Of course, do not think
it convenient, or otherwise than open to great objection,
to give even so high a limit as £50 as the line up to
which tenants in Ireland are to be considered as so
poor and dependent that they require special pro
tection from the State. But there is an immense
difficulty in drawing this line, and the great object is
to include so large a proportion of the small tenantry
as to give general satisfaction to that class.

   ' If landowners are to have the benefit of loans from
the State at a low rate of interest for the payment of
these tenant-right burdens, they may practically be
gainers, as compared with the present state of things.
   ' The difficulty of defending statutory compensation
for eviction, where no custom can be proved, is a
difficulty which must be faced, whether we draw the
                                     double that
Iline                                thought, to  amount.
     '                                            make much
        at ten-acre holdings or  at
       Gladstone was inclined,
use of the
   vol. n.  logical      arg" ument  derivable  from  the now

                                                      17

258                         THE IEISH LAND BILL         [chap. xxxviii

Igperonveermalenatssse--nt  to retrospective compensation                for im
                            mean the argument that this                 involves
                               uonfdpernoiapbelrety.vioIlaf tiIonbuoyr
the most direct and                                                      invasion
of the existing rights                                                  to-day in
the Encumbered Estates Court an estate on which a

Itenant has built a house last year costing £200,
become, by the purchase of the estate, the owner of
that house, and can evict the tenant and appropriate
the house. Such is the law under which millions have
been invested ; and yet, as it seems by general consent,
we are going to enact that, even retrospectively, this
shall not be allowed, and that improvements made by
tenants, but now legally belonging to the landlords,
shall be given back to the tenants who made them.
     '  This is an          argument which will,        :do"uYbto,u     be of
        in debate ;         but it will not do to   no                   have
use                                                say

agreed to this particular invasion of the existing rights
of property ; you need not, therefore, strain at any
further   invasion
         the first          we may propose."       of  natural          justice
   ' In                     place, the doctrine
is so strong and undeniable in this case that the pro
posed change of the law can hardly be opposed, and
the existing state of the law is almost considered as

accidental.
   ' Practically, the condition of society is such that
purchasers in the Encumbered Estates Court cannot
                               the law in the great majority            of
take    advItanitsagsetateodf  that Mr. Pollock paid as much            in
cases.

buying out the tenants as he paid in the purchase of
the estate from the owner. He gave £300,000 for the
estate, and had then to lay out another equal sum
before he could do what he liked with his own.'

         To Mr. Gladstone {January 13th, 1870).

    I' I rather agree with George Campbell on one point
(at     least, think        his  suggestion well       worth consider
ing)    -- namely, that     the  fact of a tenant      having executed

all the improvements on a farm (unless, of course,

1870]  COMPENSATION FOE IMPROVEMENTS                259

under express stipulation) might be taken as of itself
a proof that he has                reinquitrhinisg--daamparginecsipfoler
eviction. There is   had a status
                      a principle
Iwhich stands in close connection with the great pecu

liarity of Irish occupation ; and think a far safer and
sounder argument could be maintained in favour of
rtoehrni'stthBaeplo, rti"hwncfhtriheepetelhseeebratlhrinigateansibneianrltiehnfeeain.v""oruedraalniotgyferapnuoyrf eplayarbuaiprterbariitrsrymaryliln,ineaenod"f
have all the aspect of being intended to justify a fore

gone conclusion.

  I' Of course, under
                     the  term     " improvement "

would include the most wretched cabins and the most
foolish fences, if these had been the means whereby
       least) the occupant has been able to pay his rent.
I(at'    recognise a principle of justice in this idea, which
in practice every just landowner recognises, and it
stands very much on the same level, as an argument,
with the agreement by which we must defend retro
spective compensation for improvement.'

   While the Bill was passing through the House the

Duke wrote to Mr. Gladstone :

  I' hold that none, or very few, of the threatened

amendments would have the effect of making the Bill
otherwise than efficient in doing justice.

    ' As long as full compensation is given for all improve
ments, retrospectively and prospectively, and as long
as eviction is of itself to give a claim to compensation,
within limits to be judged of by a court with large

Icompensation powers : as long as the Bill gives all

this, hold that it is an ample Bill. The duration of

Ilease which is to exhaust the claim is, no doubt, an

important element, and so far agree with you that a
danger would arise out of any strong temptation to
landlords to change tenancies at will with leaseholds
summarily and, as it were, by compulsion. But unless

                                                                                17--2

260                        THE IBISH LAND BILL  [chap. xxxvm

the term of lease to be offered under the Bill be shorter
than twenty years, no such danger would practically

arise, because it would never be the interest of an owner
                                              holders, or, indeed,
to give such leases to        the very small
to any holder under           the £50 line.   It is far more for
the interest of an owner to keep them tenants at
will subject to increments of rent up to the point at
which the tenants would prefer to claim as under an

eviction.                            "efficient" -- that is,   more
                                      could only be carried    after
vio'lAenst--tomeaasnuyresm, otrheey
sfaorm'meAssfoarrefmtgearordftshreeavlpolalnusestiwinognt,eonafanntdhtsev--eBryIillmp--oesIasnihbotleyldnaaintctisvtoiltabwkeainra.gs

clear as daylight that every advantage you try to
give to them by artificial laws will simply be discounted
in the rent, or in other conditions of the bargain.

   ' The efficiency of the Bill is, therefore, really con
fined to the existing race of tenants, as, in my opinion,
it ought to be.'

     To Mr. Gladstone {January 31sf, 1870).

   ' Discussion often changes and modifies one's
opinion ; but my own impression is strongly in favour
of strengthening the Irish executive by giving to it

exc' eJuptsiotnaals  powers.  case   of  evictions it is said  with
                     in the
truth that the number of actual evictions is no measure
of the insecurity of tenure in Ireland, so in respect to
agrarian crime the number of actual murders, or
attempts to murder, is no measure of the lawlessness
wh'icThheprreevpaoirlsts,  and of the insecurity of life.
                           of the Irish police tell us that  detection
was never so utterly frustrated, and the number of
threatening letters which come to light are a mere
fra'cItnionsoomfethceounnutmiesbersoccioentcyeasleeedm. s paralyzed, and the
most just rights of property cannot be exercised.

1870]             CRIME IN IRELAND                           261

I' Under these circumstances,            think we ought to
enable the Lord Lieutenant to suspend the Habeas
Corpus locally, where, in the opinion of the Govern
Iment, this course is rendered necessary by the amount
and character of crime.  believe this would paralyze
the Ribbon conspiracy and all other conspiracies which
are connected with it.
   ' We are stronger to do this than other Governments,
when we are about to bring in a measure giving such
new and important rights.
   ' We require in Ireland not merely to intimidate the
conspirators, but to encourage the loyal and honest,
and for the latter purpose nothing is more needed than
that   the   Government should                 determination.
Such   are  my impressions, and     I  show     whether even
                                        doubt
a threat in your speech would be enough for the

purpose.'

   On the Duke's return to town on February 8th, he
found that several members of the Cabinet were ill.

In his diary is noted :

   ' Called on Gladstone at eleven ; found him seedy,
and heard of the illness of Bright, Clarendon, and
Granville.'

   The same evening he received the following note
from Lord Granville :

' Mv dear Argyll,
     ' It is impossible to be too much alarmed at
the state of health of the most eminent of the Cabinet.
   ' Poor Bright is gone as far as this session is con
cerned. Clarendon was only saved from gout in the
stomach by strong stimulants to his feet. Gladstone
told Bessborough yesterday that he felt sometimes
alarmed for his
   ' Cardwell at  own head.         sat  close  in  to  the  fire,
                  the last Cabinet

*****262
        THE IRISH LAND BILL                                               [OHAP. XXXVIII

looking as if he wished to cut his throat, which was
                                                of an influenza.
I Ipro' bacbalnynootnlysatyhehobwegsinonrirnyg   am about Bright.

                                                              ' Yours,
                                                                                ' G.,

' with head and throat stuffed up by cold.'

   A statement of his views on the Irish Land Bill is
given in a letter from the Duke to Sir Roundell Palmer
(April 23rd, 1870) :

MyI'
        IdehaorpeSyirouRwoiullnndoetllthiPnaklmearm,   taking             a  great
     '

Iliberty in writing to you about the Land Bill, in con

sequence of our conversation a short time ago.
intended to do so some time ago, but some heavy
Ibusiness in my own office has hitherto prevented me.

   ' As you may suppose, have looked at the question
                    from a                      pcooilnletagouf esv--iew
                     of my
Ifrom the                                                                 somewhat
                                                                          mean not
different
         beginning
        from most
only from a landowner's point of view, but from the
position of a landowner who has had to deal with a
tenantry of small holders exactly like the Irish in many
of the conditions under which they live.
   ' Free contract is the system established in Scot
land, and is far more severely carried into effect than
tiInhhaaEt,vnegaslhaarneddg.atordBrseucttohleltehcsetmaivnlel rthhyoeldfiIerrrsissth--coqsnauyseisdbteieorlanotwioisn£t5h0ew--hfaiwcchet
do not, and we cannot, even in Scotland, deal with
them on the same principles. We cannot, and we
do not, put up such possessions to competition, and
practically we cannot evict them (especially the
I£10 to £20 people) without giving
                                                them   compensation.
   ' Then, have had to recollect                 that  in Ireland this
class have a peculiar claim from the fact that, generally
and as a class, they have done far more than in the

1870]  LETTER TO SIR ROUNDELL PALMER                   263

Highlands towards the original improvement of the

land.
   ' And yet, considering that these improvements

have been of a somewhat indefinite character, effected
            vaanludedn, oatndbyI                  are not easily
by labour                         capital, they   equity, occupa
separately                        admit that, in
tion under such conditions assumes a peculiar char
acter, and that eviction from it becomes primd facie
Ia case for compensation.
                                  brought  to     the  conviction
   ' And thus have been
that in some form or other the law would do no wrong,
and violate no essential principle, in recognising a
claim for compensation for mere eviction, under the
regulation of a court furnished with large equitable

Ipow' ersh.ave, however, attached value to some recog

nition of the principle that length of occupancy for
the future should be admitted to satisfy this claim
Iand to exhaust it.
   ' And here   I  have   been led to modify the opinion
which at first     held,  and on which you laid stress in

your conversation with me, that the length of this
term of occupancy, as defined by the Act, is a matter
Iof first importance.

   ' hold, indeed, that if we were starting afresh,
and if we were legislating without reference to the
opinions and feelings which have arisen out of custom,
the term of twenty-one years, so common in Scotland,
is long enough for any agricultural purpose. But, on

Ithe other hand, never would give leases to the very
Ismall holders, and never do so. They impede the
consolidation of small possessions, and they give no
gdgrieveaealsitnegrtorweiatthlhissemccyulraitsteysn. aonfItfpryosIusenwsdseeirorenthathinsanBIriilcslu,hsItopsmhroopaullrrdieeatnodoyr,t
care whether it indicated twenty years or thirty years
I Ias the term which was to exhaust tenant right. To
the small holders would give neither.                  would let
them sit as tenants at will, keeping myself free to

264         THE IRISH LAND BILL                                  [chap. xxxviii

deal with them in the way of consolidation as oppor
tunities may arise, and keeping myself free also to
realize increments of rent, from time to time, up to
the point at which the tenant would prefer to go, and

Ito claim as under an eviction.

   ' Then, also, admit that it would be a great evil
if anything in our Bill were to hold out a strong
artificial inducement to owners to insist on all their
small tenants at will becoming leaseholders. They
hate it, and we must take some account of the general
traditional feelings of a country. Even in England
the tenants dislike and refuse leases. They feel more

secure under the customs of the country. In Ireland

this feeling has been intensified to an extraordinary

Ideg' reea. dmit, therefore, that it would be a positive evil,
almost unbalanced by any practical good, if we were
to name a short lease in our Bill as one which is to
satisfy, exhaust, and get rid of the claim we give to
Icom' peanmsa,tiothnereofnoreev, icstiaotnis.fied with the recognition of
the principle, almost in any form, that whatever
claims Irish occupancy may have given, those claims
are capable of being equitably satisfied by a lease of
some definite duration.
   ' Many excellent Irish landlords declare to me that
they have no sort of objection to twenty-one years as
this term. Lord Bessborough wishes it to be longer.
Lord Portsmouth holds the same language, and recog
nis'eTshteencalanutsreigwhthiecvhenmaadt ethteweenxptyir-yonoef  those
                                                                 years  leases.
                                                                        the term
Ifor £50 farms when the landowner had done all the
improvements was      Ionweastothewhaiucthhor  attached great
value, and, in fact,
                                               of it. But this
has now become superfluous by the much better pro
vision which brings down the free contract line to £50
tenancies.
' This was a great concession on Gladstone's part,
and in my opinion one of immense importance.

1870]          LIMITS OF FREE CONTRACT                                          · 265

   ' The " tender " clause was also in some degree mine.

IBut don't care much about it, since other concessions
Ihave been made, and admit that in the form in which
it stood it might have been used as an instrument of
evasion, and of general disturbance to the minds of the
I--Irisb' hyLatsaetlnyva,enrtyryh.astvreonbgeesneninseflueonfcethde--pIohliotipcealnostituuantdiounly,
aIrnedlanodf .theItseirsiouims pdoasnsgibelre  of an agrarian   revolution in
                                                 to consider   the proposals
made by men of position and character in Ireland on
this question without being impressed by the fact
that the anchors of opinion, on which all rights of
property depend, are dragging, and have lost their
hethosasldet.nthiaaOsl upbrreienBncililpmliesa.dbey.ItfaIlreadtvoheesnometvoestrthyinmlkaondidetoravwtieonleaprterfosrpeoeasnatyol
Iraise his rent to                             "to  the point at which
                                                    would rather go."
the tenant will
               any amount up
               prefer to say,
Considering the intensity of their local attachments,
we know what                                     this is.  --Threeducsciballee  is not
immoderate, and  a power                       maximum                          by all

                  it is a
equitable considerations applicable to the case. The
free contract line has been, or is to be, brought
down to £50, and even below that line, down to
the smallest class of holding ; all tenants taking

farms after the Bill is passed will have to discount
all artificial advantages, in the form of increased
rent or otherwise. Free contract, therefore, is not
really interfered with at all. Only the existing holders
are lifted to a higher level in dealing with their land
lAolrldst, haisndis,alltofumtuyre mhionldd,erssamtisufsatctboeryf--reein
                                                                          contractors.
                                                                            substance,
although every possible land Bill is open to more or

less objection.

   ' But, on the whole, our Bill is more open to objec
tion on the part of those who claim tenant right than
tIhedrpeaardt  of those  who resist it.
               the loss
                         of this Bill more
on

  I'
                                                           than           can say ;

266 '                 THE IRISH LAND BILL           [chap. xxxvm

and I,    Ias a landowner,    am satisfied with the con
          made.       do not  think Gladstone can safely
cessions

do more.'

  In supporting the measure in the House of Lords
(June 16th, 1870), the Duke said :

I' have come to the conclusion that this measure
is just and necessary in itself, that it interferes unduly
with no right of property, and that it is due in justice
to 'tAhecpuestoopmle  of Ireland. . . .
                      has grown up by    means  of  which  tenants
have by their landlords been encouraged to look for
ward to continued occupancy. You must, therefore,
in some               give some security to this
outside,  degree      as inside, Ulster. Briefly,   Iexwpoeucltdanscayy
          as well
that the principle of our Bill is this : We legalize the
Ulster custom where it can be proved to exist, and
where its existence cannot be proved, we supply a new
rule of compensation containing all the equities of the
Ulster custom without its abuses and extravagances.
. . . Can it be said that great social and political
questions are not connected with the state of the land
Iquestion in Ireland ? Is not that the whole ground
on which we propose to interfere ?              am not arguing
Ithat Parliament ought to interfere with the freedom
of contract.          quite admit that such interferences

ought to be exceptional, and that the onus probandi

Irests upon those who propose such measures. But

venture to maintain that if we are to legislate upon
the land of Ireland at all, we must admit that there are
great social and political considerations connected with
the occupation of land in that country which justify
and call for exceptional legislation in respect to
contract. Now, what is the extent to which we inter
fere with freedom of contract ? There is no com
pulsion in this Bill compelling Irish landlords to con
vert tenancies at will into leaseholds.'

1870]                 DR. J. H. NEWMAN                       267

   The Bill, after some amendment by the House of
Lords, was passed, and received the royal assent on

August 1st, 1870.

  In the midst of important official work, the Duke
paid a hurried visit to Oxford, on the 21st of June, to
receive the Honorary Degree of D.C.L.

   During the spring of this year the Duke, who num

bered among his private correspondents men of all

ranks and shades of opinion, exchanged some interest
ing letters with Dr. Newman (afterwards Cardinal
Newman), who had sent a copy of one of his recently-
published works to the Duke.

, ~Rev. S,, ir,       To Dr. Newman.              ' India Office.

       wo' rYko, u"r   kindness in sending to me  a copy   of your
                      The Grammar of Assent,"     affords  me the
Inew
opportunity, which have long desired, of expressing
the admiration and the large amount of personal

IsIyrmeapdatyhoyurwi"thApwohloicghia "hsaovmeereygeaarrdsedagoy.ou, ever since
  I' have been brought up in a school of opinion
more absolutely opposed to your Church than perhaps
any other connected with the leading Churches of the
Reformation. Your writings have not affected in
any degree my opinion on the great issues which lie
between Protestantism and         IfiRncodamnheo.swymBopfuatetthniizteIhcawasnibtheaegtnrheeea
pleasant surprise to me to
with you, and how much
spi' rIit  in which   you write.
           have not    had time   to  master  the elaborate  and
Idifficult, but most interesting, argument which occupies
the earlier   part of  Iyohauvre  last book; but      may be
allowed to   say that              read the two last  chapters

with the deepest interest and delight. They seem to
me to handle with power and with characteristic charm
some of the best arguments for the Christian faith.

268                          THE IRISH LAND BILL                   [chap. xxxviii

' Mr. Gladstone has asked me to say that he also
has a letter of thanks to you on hand, but the pressure
of his work is such that he has little time to devote to
         in  which
studies                   '  Inaatmu,raRlleyv.heSitra,kyesoutrhse   most delight.

                                                                   sinc'erAerlyg, yll.'

                             From Dr. Newman.

                               'Thk Oratory, Birmingham,
                               ' March 30th, 1870.
' My Lord Duke,
       I' The kindness with which you have received

the book which ventured to offer to your Grace is
the best  justification to my  noowtnicef.eelinI gws aosf          my having
intruded  myself upon your                                         encouraged
to do so by some words which you used of me in public
some time ago.
   ' Of course, it has been a real pleasure to me, then and
now, to read the favourable criticisms upon me of one
who is himself so brave and powerful a champion of
revealed religion, and certainly not the less pleasure
because in many things he differs from me so much.
For it suggests the welcome reflection that, in this
unhappy age of division, unity of faith and communion
is best promoted by the cultivation, in the first place,
of an ethical union among those who differ. This is
a levelling-up which may some day make controversy
comparatively easy, as laying the ground for strong
foundations, which will have no cause to fear dangerous
set'tlMemr.enGtlsa.dstone has been so kind as to fulfil the
purpose conveyed in the message you gave me from
Ihim.
     '  am, my Lor'dYoDuurkeG,rawciet'h'sJogfhraenitahtfHur.lesNspeeercwvta,mnta,n.'

   CHAPTER XXXIX

           1868-74

                      INDIA

In Mr. Gladstone's first Administration, the Duke, as

has been stated, was Secretary for India, an office
for which his peculiar fitness was well known, as for
many years he had taken a deep interest in Indian
affairs. He had answered in the House of Lords for

that department. He had also written on the subject ;
and although his articles in the Edinburgh Review,
subsequently republished in book form, were in the
main a historical vindication of the Administrations of

Dalhousie and of Canning, they indicated the principles
which would be likely to govern his policy at the India

Office, particularly with reference to the questions of
expansion and of the critical relations which existed
between India and Afghanistan.

   To Lord Mayo, who had been appointed Viceroy of
India by the Disraeli Government, the Duke wrote

(December 18th, 1868), on accepting the portfolio :

I  ' You will have heard before this reaches you that
   have received the seals of the India Office in the

new Administration.
   ' Indian politics  are, fortunately,  for
unconnected with       party struggles     at  Ithe most part,
                                                 home, and
hope that there will be nothing to prevent me from
having open and confidential communication with
you on every question affecting the government of

                      269

270  INDIA  [CHAP. XXXIX

India. You will always find me most anxious to
know your views in time upon all questions on which
you may wish or may require to consult the Govern
ment at home.'

   The period of the Duke's tenure of the India Office

was a time of peaceful and constructive economic

reforms. The official despatches, and the even more
frequent private letters, are concerned chiefly with
matters regarding land cess and local taxation ; with
our relations to Native States ; with the difficult

question of appointments ; and with all the complex
details of Indian administration.

   In the Duke's first despatch to Lord Mayo he dealt
with the question of Indian Military Reform, in which

he pointed out that, notwithstanding the decrease in

the forces since the Mutiny, there was a considerable
increase in the expenditure. Under Lord Mayo's able
rule some reductions were effected, but the opposi
tion of the War Office and of the Indian Council pre

vented the carrying out of any extensive military

reforms.

   An important work instituted by the Duke was the
founding of a college in England for the training of
civil engineers for India. This supplied a want much
felt by the Indian Council, as difficulty was experi
enced in obtaining properly qualified men for the

Public Works Department. Previously the training had
been most inadequate, some of the candidates requir
ing to be instructed in their work after their arrival
in India. The college was built at Cooper's Hill,
and was opened by the Duke in August, 1871. Under

the presidency of Colonel Chesney, of the Bengal
Engineers, who was selected by the Duke for the post,

the students attained that high degree of proficiency

1868-74]    ANCIENT ORIENTAL CULTURE                           271

which is now associated with the training for the
Indian Civil Service.

   At the time of the Duke's appointment as Secretary
of State for India, he had some correspondence with
Professor Max Muller, on the subject of ancient Oriental

culture in which the Duke had for many years been

much interested.

From Professor Max Muller {December 16th, 1868).

' As for more than twenty years my principal work
Ihas been devoted to the ancient literature of India,

  cannot but feel a deep and real sympathy for all that
            thTehouhgighheIr   interests of the people of      that
                              have never been in India,        have
concerns

Icountry.
I Imany friends there, both among the civilians and

among the natives ; and believe am not mistaken
in supposing that the publication in England of the
ancient sacred writings of the Brahmans, which had
never been published in India, and other contributions
from different European scholars towards a better
knowledge of the ancient literature and religion of
India, have not been without some effect on the in

tellectual and religious movement that is going on
            the more thoughtful  mtheamt bIerasmofnIontdiaann
Iamhoanveg  sometimes regretted                                 society.
man, and able to help more actively in the                     English
of educating and improving the natives.                        wI odrko
                                            great

                                             But
rejoice that this great task of governing and benefiting
India should have fallen to one who knows the great
ness of that task and all its opportunities and re
sponsibilities, who thinks not only of its political and
financial bearings, but has a heart to feel for the moral
welfare of those millions of human beings who are,
more or less directly, committed to his charge. India
has been conquered once. But India must be con
quered again ; and that second conquest should be a
conquest by education.'

272                                INDIA                     [chap. xxxix

   One of the chief questions affecting Indian affairs
which occupied the Duke's attention was a scheme for
the Government construction and administration of

railways. He approved of the principle of State
control, but on that point he had to meet with the

opposition of the railway companies. One of his
first letters to Lord Mayo deals with this subject :

  I' am myself disposed to think that as regards rail

ways we might now dispense with the agency of
companies altogether. We could raise the money on
our direct security at 4 per cent., whereas we guar
antee 5 per cent, to the companies ; and, besides this,
we sacrifice our right to one-half of any possible
sur'pWlushyofshporuolfditswoevesracarnifdiceabtohvee  the 5
                                                      large  per cent.   are
                                                             sums which
involved in this method            of raising money ?
   ' The companies must            be regarded, first, as    agencies
for the raising of the money, and, secondly, as agencies
for the expending of the money. What advantage
do they give us in either of these ways ?
   ' As to raising the money, we could unquestionably
Iraise it at a cheaper rate. And as regards the ex

pending of it, do not see that they have any advantage
over us. Indeed, the Indian Government has many
special advantages in its hands both as regards the
raising and the expending of the necessary loans.

   ' A great political object would be gained if we could
induce the natives of India to invest more largely in
our loans. Let me direct your attention to the fact
that the share they now hold in our public debt is
dItimisininsohwingo.nlyAtaboounte   time it was nearly one-third.
                                   one-fourth ; and as regards the
railway loans, the natives have supplied not much
more than one million out of the eighty millions

invested.

  I' Might we not succeed in inducing the natives to

invest more largely by the plan suggest of dispensing

1868-74]  NEW RAILWAY POLICY                                                       273

Iwith the agency of companies ?                     wish you would
turn your attention to                   this                    and report         to
me what conclusion you                   come  qtuoe. stiIotn  is clear that       the

guarantee we give of 5 per cent. removes to a great
extent the motive                              in"   expenditure which
is one of the great   to economy                    private enterprise."
                     advantages of
Guaranteed companies do not represent private enter
pris' eY,ouandwiollffeurndneornsetanodf  its advantages.
                                           that as yet this              idea  of  dis

pensing with companies is my own only, and not
Ito be considered as an official suggestion.                                   am at
present inquiring into the subject, and hope soon to
Iaddress you more formally in regard to it.
                                                                               should
like to see one great railway department formed,
raising separate loans exclusively directed to railway
works, expending the money by contract under an
wefiftichientthecor"psdooubf leengginoveeerrns,meanntd "dispoef nsdiinrgectaolrtso,getehtecr.,
who can only do what we could do far better.'

   He was able a few months later (July 30th, 1869)
to inform Lord Mayo that he had announced this new

departure in policy :

I' have announced in Parliament the new railway
Ipolicy, apparently with general

not insensible to one argument
                                               approval.                 us--Buntamealym,
                                                against
that Government never does execute works without

endless delays, and that the guaranteed companies

were at least bodies whose sole business it was to push
on the lines, whereas under Government there is no
body which has any such interest.
  I' We shall all be much discredited               if we                do not prove
                                                                         not without
that such objections are groundless.                 It is
anxiety, therefore, that hear from private letters that
the Lahore and Peshawar line, taken in hand by
Government more than a year ago, is practically at a
s"taknicdksintigll, thneoitrhihnegelsbe"inagnddodnisec,outrhaegesdt.aff  of engineers
vol. n.
                                                                         All this may

                                                                         18

274             INDIA                                        [chap. XXXIX

be untrue. But I hope you will report to me what

is being done. We must have every line completely

surveyed and estimated before it is begun. This may

give trouble at first, but will save time and expense
in the end.

   ' No more important work lies before you than the
organization of this new railway work, that the lines
may be done speedily, cheaply, and substantially.
One good man should be trusted with the survey of
each line, and no divided responsibility allowed.'

   On January 17th, 1870, the Duke wrote to Lord
Mayo :

  ' I took up   Ithe question of direct Government con

struction long  before knew that Lawrence supported
Iit, and that his Government strongly recommended

it. came to that conclusion on general grounds ;
and on sending for the head of the Public Works De
pI awrtams ensut,rpMrisre. dThtoorntfoinnd,        telling him of my view,
                                             and             eIqtuawllyas
in favour                                    that    he was                strong
this that     of Government                        agency.                   after
           I    found from the                     papers already in the
office that it was only in despair of this course being
sanctioned that the Government of India was pressing
for at least some improvement in the extravagant
Iconditions allowed to the guaranteed companies. Soon

after that consulted the Cabinet, who sanctioned the
proposal of the larger change.'

   The principle of State control was accordingly applied
by Lord Mayo to the new lines constructed during his
administration.

   The following letter (October 4th, 1871) from the
Duke to Sir Richard Temple deals with the question
of finance :

  I' have just received your letter, in which you ask
Ime whether wish to see the repeal of the export

1868-74]  DEATH OF LORD MAYO                                                                              275

duties proposed in the next Budget, even though it
Icannot be afforded without incurring a deficit, or largely
Iincreasing a deficit otherwise existing.                                                                 am not
prepared to say that wish you to make the proposal
under such conditions. But as an export duty, upon
an article of which India has no monopoly whatever,
is undoubtedly a duty exposed to all the economic
objections which attach to such duties, it is un
doubtedly one of the first duties to be remitted when

it can be afforded ; and if there is reason to believe that

the theoretical objections do practically apply, and
that the trade is being limited and the industry of the

people checked by the duty, then it might be worth
while even to run the risk of deficit to abolish the
impost. But the Government of India argues that
there are no signs of its incidence being so heavy as
Isqeure'iostuisoslnhyawltlohitlcaimhkeyitoutthhreeaitsoreap,dinbeiuoitnningortafhient.hmeeaCnatibmineetI
                                                                                                           on the
                                                                                                          have no
hesitation in saying that the economic objections to a
large deficit in a country where new taxes are so
difficult, and even dangerous, are more serious and
more to be avoided than the continuance of some
evil from the export duty.'

   On the 12th of February, 1872, a terrible event
occurred in India. The Viceroy, Lord Mayo, was
assassinated by a convict, when he was inspecting the
penal settlement on the Andaman Islands. The Duke
had the sad duty to perform of announcing this

painful intelligence to the House of Lords. In the

course of his address, after alluding to the fact that he
and Lord Mayo had taken up office almost at the same
time, the Duke added :

  I' am happy to say that from that time our negotia

tions have been most friendly and most cordial.

           *****

                                                                                18--2

276                    INDIA                   [CHAP. XXXIX

  I' may say I believe with perfect truth that no

Governor-General who ever ruled India was more
energetic in the discharge of his duties and more
assiduous in performing the functions of his great
office, and, above all, no Viceroy who ever ruled India
had more at heart the good of the people of that vast

IEmpire. . . .

   ' believe his death will be a calamity to India, and
that it will be sincerely mourned not only in England
and in his native country, Ireland, but by the well-
affected millions of Her Majesty's subjects in India.'

The Duke's words were received by the House with

marked emotion and sympathy.

After Lord Mayo's tragic death, Lord Northbrook
was appointed Viceroy, and proceeded to India the

following summer.

One of the first letters written by the Duke to the

new Viceroy was on the subject of the proposal made

by Lord Cardwell to increase the proportion of the

military expenditure borne by India :

I' have been busy preparing a reply to a letter of
the War Office, in which Cardwell threatens to claim
     India a share in  alIl  sorts of army expenses at
     --a theory which        am determined to resist,
Ifrom

home
but which strongly suspect     you             wOerfeficeai!dinIgt  and
abetting when you were at the   War
                                                                    will
be a righteous retribution upon you if you now find
that all your efforts at reduction in India are liable to
be frustrated by new charges being laid upon India
     a share of all    hao"mepamrtnileitrar"y   outlay, under the
     that India is                             in all the benefits.
to pay

I IIptreitsexat
     pestilent doctrine, and think shall be able
Ito upset it. And now at least presume you will be
disposed to help me.'

   On this question the Duke fought strenuously, and
on the whole secured his point. There was no con

1868-74]                ZANZIBAR AND MUSCAT                                                        277

troversy about the cost of maintaining troops in India,
as that naturally fell on the Indian Treasury. The

main question at issue was the proportion of the
general military expenditure, for recruiting and similar
purposes, which India should be called upon to pay; and
the Cabinet was disposed to reduce military estimates
by imposing more than a fair share upon India. This
injustice the Duke succeeded in averting to a consider

able extent.

   On the subject of a disagreement which had arisen

between the chiefs of Zanzibar and Muscat, the Duke
wrote as follows to Lord Northbrook (October 12th,

1872) :

' The Cabinet to-day sanctioned an arrangement of
which you ought to have early intimation and an early
explanation.

  I I' One of the first things had to deal with when
came into office was the question arising out of the
arrangement Canning made by the authority of the
Go'vTehrnemInednitaonf  India between Zanzibar
                        Government would not                                       and Muscat.
                                                                                   allow the two
chiefs to fight out their own quarrel. In pursuance of
the policy it has always pursued of interdicting mari
tsciaomimde,mwe"racWre)ei,niwtthislotlesepnposetedaasilnlo(abwsetwbyeoeiuenng   dangerous to British
                                                                                the two brothers, and
                                                                               to fight, but we will
mediate between you, and decide as arbiters upon a
jus'tOsfetctoleumrseentthoisf  your quarrel."
                               mediation was                                   an  enforced  one,  and
having undertaken it on this footing, we became some
thing more than arbiters. We became parties in
the whole transaction, and bound more or less to en
force our own award.
   ' Accordingly the money was really extracted by us
from Zanzibar and paid over to Muscat.

   ' All this was done and arranged by the Indian
Government with no reference whatever to slavery.

278                                   INDIA                     [CHAP. XXXIX

It was purely and simply in the interests of commerce

Ito
'kBeeupt  the peace of the seas.             a  case  had  arisen  which
          when came into office
had not been foreseen. The Imaum of Muscat had

been murdered, and the murderer had usurped the

thr'oTnhee. Sultan of Zanzibar then remonstrated against
our forcing him to pay a subsidy to the murderer of his
relative. He argued that it was intended for the
Sovereign of Muscat only so long as he was of the
family of the old Imaum, and that it would be un
just to make Zanzibar pay it to a stranger and an

I Iassassin.

   ' thought there was much force in this, and took
the opinion of the Cabinet, which decided to exact
no longer the subsidy from Zanzibar.
   ' The Government of India never acquiesced willingly
in this decision.
   ' But now comes a counter-revolution in Muscat,
and another member of the old family regains the

throne.         the  subsidy from            Zanzibar,     and  I  cannot
   ' He claims
deny that to him the subsidy is clearly due under
Canning's treaty
                   and engagement.              but   two       courses --
  ' It seems to   me that we have
either to stand aside and let the two States fight out
their own quarrel, thus sacrificing the peace of the seas,
Ior to enforce the subsidy on Zanzibar.

   ' The first course is not, suppose, to be thought
of. The interests of commerce would be too gravely
compromised, and we should give up our standing
po'licTyheinenthfoorsceemseeanst. of
also very embarrassing.               the   payment from     Zanzibar is
                                             is a perpetual   excuse for
                                        It
keeping up the revenue he gets from the slave-trade ;
and even apart from this consideration, it is not easy
to get the money regularly paid without resort to
measures which our Government is not very willing
to take.

1868-74] SIR BARTLE FRERE AND ZANZIBAR                       279

' Then comes the Foreign Office demanding, very
properly, the revision of an arrangement which is
notoriously a cover and an incentive to the slave-trade.
The Queen has given a promise in her speech from the
throne that she will take more active measures to
sup' pUrnesdserita. ll these circumstances, the embarrassment of
which arises a good deal from the action of the Indian
IGovernment and from the engagements into which it

entered, have thought it right to bring the whole
question before Council, with a view to our taking the
Zanzibar subsidy on ourselves, provided the Imperial
Treasury would take one-half of it, and also provided
that by relieving Zanzibar from it we could get a
thoroughly satisfactory new treaty in respect to com
merce and the slave-trade.
   ' The Cabinet has agreed to this arrangement, and
so has the council.
   ' Sir Bartle Frere has been selected by Granville to
go out on a special mission to Zanzibar to negotiate a
new treaty, with powers to make the above arrange
         if it should  be found                       for

          indicated.
IImehnatv,e                            necessary             the purposes

' Of course, regard the contribution of India as
made in respect to our old policy of keeping the peace
of the seas, and the contribution made by the Imperial
Treasury as made in respect to its desire to suppress
the slave-trade, and to remove all difficulties in the

I Iwa'yBouftdoinmgaysos. ay, in passing, that whilst think the
Imperial Government ought to take the cost of

Isuppressing the slave-trade on itself, yet that do
not think that any branch of the British Government
                                       of India
(which   stahyeinGgo, v"erTnhmisenits            is)  ought  to take the
line of                                a matter  in   which  we have no
interest and will take no concern."
   ' Especially does this language seem inappropriate
when it seems clearly proved that Indian subjects and
the capital of Indian merchants are largely concerned

280               INDIA  [CHAP. XXXIX

in all the pecuniary resources by which the slave-trade
is carried on along the East Coast of Africa.

  I I' On this, however, do not dwell, because what

feel most is that the Government of India is the
Government of the Queen, and the Queen's Government
everywhere ought to do its best to help to suppress an
iniquity so monstrous and so desolating in its effects
as the East African slave-trade has been now proved

to be.'

   In this mission to Zanzibar, Sir Bartle Frere was suc

cessful, the Sultan agreeing to the proposed treaty for
the suppression of the slave-trade.

   The question of Land Settlement was one which
constantly occupied the attention of the Secretary of
State and the Government of India. The following
letters from the Duke to Lord Mayo and Lord North-
brook show the peculiar difficulties with which they
had to contend in dealing with this matter :

          To Lord Mayo {November 1st, 1869).

' The last mail took out the despatch on the Punjaub
Tenancy Act, which for some time you have been ex
pecting from us.

     * ****

' My own opinion on the general principle of the
IAct is favourable, but must direct your attention
Ito one part respecting which entertain the gravest
Idoubts.  refer to the power given to all occupancy
tenants to sublet their holdings either in whole or in

Ipar't. need not point out to an Irish landlord the
dangers which are connected with such a power. No
doubt these dangers depend on the conditions of
society. Hitherto in India the competition for land
has not been such as to lead to mischievous sub
division. On the contrary, under former Govern

1868-74]  PUNJAUB TENANCY ACT                                 281

ments I believe the difficulty has been to get tenants
who would occupy and cultivate. But you must
recollect that our settled rule has brought in wholly

Inew conditions. We shall have fewer wars, and
hope, also, fewer famines. Under peace and plenty
the population must increase at a rate not before
known, and if a low kind of food is available, such as
the potato, we may have in the Punjaub the same
pressure of the population on the means of subsistence
which led to so much misery in Ireland.
I' My attention has been the more called to this
circumstance because        see in the papers special
                            that the
Inotice taken of the  fact  Punjaub   --honldoint gsmoarree,  already
                       the                                    on the
extremely small in
average, think, than four acres.'

              To Lord Mayo {April 28th, 1871).

   ' You know the great objections entertained by
many persons of high authority to any permanent
alienation by the State of its right to adjust the tax
of the rent which it exacts, according to the increasing
value of land. My own opinion is that permanent
settlements are good, but only on the condition that
the increased wealth which is thus left in the hands
of individuals shall be made accessible to taxation in

other forms ; and the great strength of the argument
against such settlements has always turned on the
assumed impossibility, or extreme difficulty, of de

Ivising any new source of revenue in India. But if

this difficulty can be overcome, then think per

Imanent settlements are advantageous in the long-run.

And think that the difficulty will be overcome if
the principle of our despatch on local taxation be care
fully guarded and adhered to.

   ' But this is quite essential. We are only at the
commencement of a time which must be a new era as
regards the value of land and of all its products in India.
The railway system, and the discovery of new uses for

282                                    INDIA                      [CHAP. XXXIX

the various products of the soil, are already telling on
the prices of everything in India, and the value of

land may soon come to be manyfold what it has
hitherto been.
   ' This increased value had much better be left in

the hands of the people than appropriated by the

Government, provided it be admitted to be legitimately
            for the necessities of local      administration.
tax'aAble  permanent settlement is            a great stimulus            to

private enterprise and to the investment of capital,
with confidence on the part of the agricultural classes
that they will enjoy the fruits of their skill and enter

prise.'

           To Lord Northbrook {May 23rd, 1873).
I' A despatch goes out by this mail to which attach
mu' cThheimrpeoarltanobceje. ct .
                                   ..  the  despatch  is to       fire    a shot

                                   of

across the bows of the school, now so strong and active,
which deprecates all property in land, and advocates
a land revenue system, destructive of proprietorship,
as distinguished from mere occupancy. Campbell, in
his report, mentions that he was doing all he could to
persuade zemindars and other owners to give per
petual leases to their tenants at fixed rates of rent, this
being, in his opinion, the most satisfactory footing on
wh'icIhwdrioffteerenat   interests in land    could
                        private letter to     him,     be adjusted.       the
                                                      pointing out
mischiefs of such a system if it became general, and
the certainty that it would remove from the improve
ment fund of the country the whole fixed rental of
Ithe proprietors.
   ' Ever since         have been           lfooormkinwghoaut tI  for an  oppor
tunity of saying        in a public                                think  on this
matter. Such an opportunity arose naturally out of
your despatch, enclosing Colonel Haig's report on the
Orissa Works and Campbell's memorandum there

upo' nA.ccordingly, I have taken this opportunity to give

1868-74]     INCOME-TAX AND LAND QUESTION                            283

a little lecture  inonInpdoiali.ticaIlt  economy   as applied to the
land question                            has been  drawn with great

care, and has been readjusted so as to receive the

Iunanimous assent of the Council, although do not
think Maine likes it, because he is rather of the Mill
school on these questions. But he could not object

Ito any one of the paragraphs.

   ' hope it will strengthen your hands in defending
             wIhefneeilt  has, fortunately, grown up        under    our
property                  confident you will agree          with     the
system.
general principles that it lays down.'

   A letter to Lord Northbrook (June 27th, 1873)

shows the connection between the Duke's scheme for
an income-tax and the land question :

    ' My despatch of May 22nd on the general prin
ciples involved in the land question of India will enable
you to see how entirely my opinion runs in the direc
Ition of lightening and modifying the land revenue

system. But beg you to recollect that this opinion
Iis inseparably   connected  sowitfhulltyh--atnaomtheelry,  opinion   on
                   written                                    that   the
which have
growing wealth which will arise out of light assess
ments must be held to be accessible to taxation in
other forms. Unless this principle is upheld, it will
be true, instead of being false, that the State loses all
that private persons gain. This is the pestilent doc
trine  of the new school on the theory              of  land tenure.
       entirely false, but it is false only         on  the supposi
It is
tion that private wealth shall continue to be taxable
in other ways than by the exaction of increasing rents
Ifollowing
             increasing values.          that  the  abolition  of    the
   ' Now,      am a little afraid
income-tax tends to discourage one important channel
of           to the legitimate taxation        of wealth.
    Iaccess   also a little afraid that         your nervousness

    ' am
Iabout local and municipal taxation may have the same

effect in another direction. Of course, agree with

284                           INDIA                                  [CHAP. XXXIX

Iyou that cesses should be applied very cautiously.
Icannot say feel at all sure that the Bengal municipal
ities should be exempted from cesses to which the
rural districts
                         are  subjected.  land          revenue      light,  and,
  ' If we are                 make our
                         to
above all, if we are to make it permanent at a low
rate, we must have recourse to other forms of taxation.'

The following letter from the Duke to Lord North-

brook concerns the proposed Rent and Revenue Acts

for the North-Western Provinces. These Acts were

designed to amend the existing laws affecting the

ownership and occupancy of land.

, My dear ,N,orthbrook,                                 r' September 17th, 1873.

     ' One of the last mails brought me your letter
of August 11th with the North-Western Provinces
Rent and Revenue Bills.

  I' have been reading them carefully with the relative
Idocuments, and am bound to tell you that entertain
very great doubts about some of the new provisions,
especially about the new class created of privileged

Itenants.

   ' can well conceive that it might be expedient to
deal specially with the cultivators whose proprietorship
was confiscated by ourselves after the Mutiny, although,
even as regards them, you are breaking faith with those
who bought the proprietorship set up to sale by yourselves
without any notice of the reserved rights kept in the
hands of
   ' But a  the former proprietors.                     for   the    past  and  for
             general provision both
the future, that all bankrupt proprietors who have
"toprsoetlel ctthioenir  "initneroersdterintothkeeeirp  land  shall
                                                               part  have special
                                                        some         of that right

of property which they profess to sell, seems to me a
provision against all reason, and very impolitic.
   ' Yet these Bills, as now framed, give up and abandon
all protection to the confiscated class, the only class

1868-74]         RENT AND REVENUE BILLS                                     285

on whose behalf Sir William Muir speaks in the extract
sent with the papers, and gives the protection to every
idle or extravagant proprietor who may get into debt,
profess to sell his property, and then get the State
to give him back so much of it as may keep him in a
favoured position as a tenant.
   ' Could a better law be devised for weakening and
destroying the motives which make men careful,
industrious, and thrifty ?
' The provision seems to be confined (1) to village
community owners ; (2) to these owners only in respect
to the land in their own     actual occupation.  asNIo                       doubt
this limits the operation    a good deal, but,                              under
stand that a large part of the whole country is owned
by village communities, the operation will be extensive-

enough.
   ' The object seems to be to bolster up the system of
village ownership against the natural causes which are
at work to break it up and to bring on the system of
individual ownership.

   ' Is this a wise attempt ? Is it an attempt which
can'             succeed ?
       possibly  the causes  at work  ?  The papers explain
      What are

them. Peace, order, and good government are giving
a value to ownership which it never had before ;
that is to say, a great number of owners find that they
can get a good price for their ownership, and are

desirous to get it. A great many other persons are,
of 'cTouhreseS, tadteesirsotuespstoing, ivaendthsaatypsritcoe.the owner : " You
must not sell your ownership. We wish to keep you
as owner, and, even although you have already sold,
we    wwillillno'tparolltoewctth' eyobuargfarionmyotuhahtavbearmgaaidne
We                                                                       ;  to stand.
                                                                              we will
insist that you shall keep at least a part of the owner
ship which you meant to sell, and which another man
meant to buy, and thought he had bought, and, more
over, however careless and extravagant you may be,
whatever may have been the follies which compelled

286                                                                    [chap. XXXIX

you to sell, still, we regard you as so invaluable to the
State, that we must insist on your keeping, and never
sel'linIsg,thtihserepaasrotnoawblneerlsahnigpuawgheic?h                 to you."
                                                         we   restore  this a plain
                                                              is not
                                                         Yet
statement of the real feelings which dictate this
Ilegislation ?

   ' object also very much to the clauses which
prevent enhancement for so long a term as thirty
years, and which do not recognise the increased value
of produce (as distinguished from increased product
iveness of the land) as a legitimate ground of enhance
Ime'nt. can understand the policy of recognising no
ownership in land at all, the policy of taking the whole
Irent to the Treasury, and leaving nobody connected
with the land except cultivating tenants.                                  believe
this policy to be pestilent in its consequences, and fatal
to the growth of national wealth as well as of political
strength, but it is a consistent policy, and at least

int'eBlliugtiblteh.ere is neither policy, nor consistency, nor
intelligence in a system which professes to recognise
ownership in land as distinct from occupancy, and then
endeavours to thwart and destroy                         theIfnaytouuradlo
tions of commerce in that ownership.                                        opera
                                                                            admit
ownership, admit it to be freely saleable. Do not tell
a man that he is owner, and forbid him to sell when
             it his interest  to do so. Still                              it"
he finds                      has sold that he                less     is       wise
             man when he                                               be       pro
to tell  "a                                                   will
tected
             in getting back part of what he professes to
have parted with, and this, too, without giving back
Iany part of the price !
                              think, thoroughly wrong.
   ' The whole system is,
B" ycusatollm m"eiannstheleltegaolursencsoe.urtsBurtesdpoecntotalnedt   enforce
                                                                       us go on
passing new Acts, professing to protect men against the
inevitable results of social progress, which are breaking
up, and will break up in spite of you, the old antiquated
systems of land tenure in India.

1868-74]      INCOME-TAX IN INDIA                                               287

' Perpetual entails are being denounced in Europe
by land reformers where those entails are in favour
of large owners. You are now proposing to introduce
them      in  India in  favour of a    p"auHpeerritaabnled,  bankrupt
class     of            proprietors !                         but not
              peasant
transferable, rights of privileged occupancy." What is
this but a bastard      tohwene"rsshtripu,ggpleerpfoertueaxlliysteenntcaeile"d
a class which in                                                                 upon
                                                                                which
the progress of society involves, and without which no
progress is possible, is being found too weak to hold
its'
      own  ?              between owner and occupier
      The
            exacerbation
which some of your collectors report as now prevailing
is due, in my opinion, to the laws we have passed,
which profess to protect men against changes which
are inevitable, and against which no artificial protec
tion is possible. But so long as we profess and promise
protection, the progress of these changes will be
marked by very natural discontent.'

   In this letter the Duke mentions his objection to
granting fixity of rent for so long a period as thirty

years. This view was shared by the Lieutenant-
Governor, Sir William Muir. When the Acts were
finally passed by the Legislative Council, this clause was
altered, and a fixed rent was secured to the tenant

for a term of ten years only.

   The Duke advocated economy, but he also advised, as

a means of increasing the revenue, the adoption of the

income-tax, which had been so successful in England.
This tax was levied in India in 1870, and, from the
first, proved to be unpopular, although the Duke was

inclined to think that it aroused the opposition of the
official class only. On June 29th, 1872, he wrote to
Lord Northbrook :

  I' As regards the income-tax, am still of opinon

that, if possible (that is to say, if it can be done con

288  INDIA                              [CHAP. XXXIX

sistently with the state of public feeling), the
income-tax ought to be kept at a low rate permanently,
but that it should not be operated upon from time to
time with reference to the temporary exigencies of
the Budget. Under a permanent income-tax, many
of the most objectionable features would disappear ;
and as regards the objection that it is a tax upon a

very small portion of the community, it is to be

remembered that this is only because there is a very
limited number of persons in India who have an income
above £50 or £100. But this does not seem to be any
reason why this limited number should not be taxed.

A tax which is levied on a limited class is of course
objectionable, if it be considered alone. But it is not
necessarily objectionable if it be considered as a part

of a general system of taxation which aims, as a whole,
at equality in proportion to means.

     *****

' We made one great mistake about the income-tax,
and that was when the Government of Lord Mayo
doubled it in the middle of a year. This gave the
impression of its being an implement of finance to
be perpetually brandished and brought down upon the
heads of the people whenever the        aGnodvIerdnomneonttbfeoliuenved
itself even in a temporary difficulty,
that the same feeling would ever have arisen if it had
been kept at a low fixed rate.'

   The defeat of Mr. Gladstone's Government by a

majority of three (March 11th, 1873), on the question
of University Education in Ireland, resulted in his
resignation ; but, as Mr. Disraeli refused to form a
Government, Mr. Gladstone resumed office.

   During the last days of 1873, India was threatened
with famine, owing to the failure of the rice crops in
Bengal and Behar, which was due to drought.

   The Duke supported Lord Northbrook in the relief

measures which he instituted, and urged the Viceroy

1868-74]       MR. DISRAELl's GOVERNMENT                 289

to err rather on the safe side, and not, from financial

reasons, to be in any way niggardly in the provision
of relief.

   In January, 1874, the Ministry determined on

a dissolution ; the Liberal party suffered a crushing
defeat at the General Election ; and Mr. Gladstone,
following Mr. Disraeli's precedent of 1868, resigned
office before the meeting of Parliament.

   In the new Government which was formed by Mr.
Disraeli, Lord Derby again occupied the post of Foreign
Secretary ; Lord Carnarvon was Secretary for the

Colonies; Sir Stafford Northcote, Chancellor of the
Exchequer; and Lord Salisbury succeeded the Duke
of Argyll at the India Office.

   In his last official letter to Lord Northbrook

(February 13th, 1874) the Duke referred to the over
throw of the Liberal Government as follows :

  I' Personally, can't regret it. Politically, too, there
Iare many compensations to me, as am not a Radical,

and many of the extreme joints of our tail had been
wagging too much.'

          To Lord Northbrook {March 10th, 1874).

' To my mind, it is capable of proof that in no
previous case of Indian famine or scarcity has there
been even an approach to the timely, thoughtful, and
systematic operations with which your Government
has met this failure in Behar. This statement will be
Imade good, and whenever my turn comes to speak,

you may depend on my doing what can to make this
clear  to the  public.
       must,   however,  leave  town  and  Parliamentary
  I'
Iwork early in May, as wish to have a full spring and
Isummer in  the  country.
    ' have  had   some very     full  and  satisfactory  talks
vol. n.
                                           19

290                  INDIA                                            [CHAP. XXXIX

with Salisbury, and have placed our correspondence
Iat his disposal.    think this is good policy towards
Iyou and towards India. Personally, like Salisbury
very much.'

From Lord Northbrook to the Duke {February 1§th,

                     1874).

' The news of the defeat of the Government at the
late elections, and their consequent resignation, hardly
surprised me. Our Government has been a little in
advance, upon several great questions, of the general
opinions of the mass of the people, and the change
to a period of comparative quiet, if this should be the
Ipolicy of the Conservative Government, contrary to

their action of late years, would, think, be popular,
and not without some advantage ; but my speculations
upon general politics from this distance, and with
different objects of absorbing interest before me, are
hardly worth writing down.

  I' write principally to thank you for the generous
Iconfidence and support which have received from
Iyou since have filled the office of Governor-General,
and for the full and free manner in which you have
written to me upon important matters, and for the
little amount of the references from home upon matters
of minor importance. This latter has been of no small
advantage to me, for the work is very heavy, and the

more it is confined to questions of real importance, the
mo' rEe sepaesciliyallayndinthethbeetqteuresittiocnasn
                                                        be done.  to  the  land
                                                        relating
Isettlement and other similar matters of discussion

your views have, am sure, had a great and salutary
weight in the Government of this country which will

remain afterwards.'

   On April 24th the Duke spoke in the House of Lords
in defence of Lord Northbrook's policy. Referring to
this speech, Lord Shaftesbury wrote (April 25th, 1874) :

1868-74] LORD NORTHBROOK'S FAMINE POLICY                                          291

   ' Your speech last night was most satisfactory to
everybody in the House, and it ought to be so to
ygoouords,elifn.deeYdeftirsnto-rnaten--obdiselivDeormy,inela. nguEavgeer,ytshuinbgstanwcaes,
and manner. Moreover, you fully proved your case.'

   The following letter from Lord Granville refers to
the period of the Duke's tenure of office as Secre
tary of State for India, and the Duke's reply shows
how entirely he approved of the policy pursued by
Lord Northbrook during his administration of Indian

affairs :

         From Lord Granville {January nth, 1875).
   ' Thanks for your note.
   ' Dizzy impudently at the Mansion House stated

Ithat the credit of dealing with famine rested exclusively

with Northbrook and Salisbury. Am wrong in
supposing that you appointed Northbrook, that from
you he received his famine instructions, that from you
he received unlimited support against a great cry ?
How far has the Council at home any merit either as
regards you or Salisbury ? and had Salisbury any merit
but maintaining your and Northbrook' s policy ?'

                      ' Inveraray,
                      ' January 19th, 1875.
' My dear Granville,
      '  Opof lcicoyursweaswefraopmpotihnetedfirsNtorrtihgbhrto--oke.ntirely

His
I'                                                                                ap
proved and supported by me, doing nothing more
than urging even increased precautions. Moreover, in
so far as Northbrook did hasten his steps at all, they
were hastened before Salisbury came into office. For
I Iisnpsotta--ncew,hicthhewassentdhiengeffeocftivSeir stRep. --Tweams ptleaketno
                                                                                   the
                                                                                  long
before left office. So far as know, nothing new was
done by Salisbury.

                      19--2

292  INDIA  [CHAP. XXXIX

  ' I don't wish, however, to wrangle in any way
Iagainst Salisbury, who behaved like a gentleman, and

would be the first, think, to acknowledge that all
measures were settled and in full progress before he
came to the office.

   ' The Council simply supported Northbrook and me.

They have no independent or initiat'ivYeouarcsti'oeAnv.regr,yll.'

                      CHAPTER XL

                                                 1870-74

THE FRANCO-PTRIOUNSS--IACNHUWRCAHR--AANRDMYSTARTEEFORM-- EDUCA

During the period of the Liberal Administration

(1868-1874) important events had occurred on the
Continent.

   In August, 1870, war was declared between France

and Prussia. This war originated in the objection
raised by France to the acceptance of the offer of the
throne of Spain by Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern,
and although this acceptance was afterwards with
drawn, the refusal of Prussia to give any guarantee for
the future was made the pretext for hostilities between

the two countries. In the contest which ensued,

the Duke's sympathies were on the side of Prussia.
He wrote to Mr. Gladstone (August 31st, 1870) :

  I' What a war ! but am thoroughly German. . . .
IStill, think the Germans would make a mistake if they

took Alsace.'

   A Cabinet had been summoned to meet on Sep

tember 30th, to consider the question of mediation on
the part of England between France and Prussia. The
Duke, who had been cruising in his yacht on the west
coast of Scotland for some weeks, wrote to Mr. Glad
stone on his return to Inveraray (September 28th) :

                                                                     293

294       THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR               [chap. XL

I' We returned from a cruise yesterday.         guessed
that about this time there would be a Cabinet.

  I' But, as bad luck would have it, have been attacked
I Iby gout, and am so lame that don't expect to be
Iable to move to-morrow, although must go up to
ILondon as soon as can, at any rate, on some Indian
matters.
                                            can only say that,
  I I' If am not at the Cabinet,
Ias regards foreign affairs, cannot see how we can as
yet do any good by arbitration, or even the offer of it.
The French have not yet come down to the level of
common-sense. The sacrifices they were prepared to
... Iinflict on others they seem to think quite impious when
threatened to themselves.                   am myself disposed
to think that Germany makes a mistake in asking for
IMetz and Strasbourg. The line of the Vosges is more

reasonable, but, on the whole, believe their wisest
plan would be to be content with the destruction of
Strasbourg as a fortress. But who has a right to dictate
terms to Germany after all the risks she has run and
the tremendous victories she has gained ?'

   The day after this letter was written, the Duke was
able to travel to London, and he was present at the
Cabinet at which it was decided that England should
refrain from mediating between the hostile countries.
The Duke wrote to Mr. Gladstone (November 25th,

1870) :

  I' have myself never argued in favour of the German

annexation of Alsace and Lorraine, but only against
our having any right to oppose it otherwise than by
the most friendly dissuasion.'

          To Mr. Gladstone {October 24, 1870).

  I' We move up  thoavLeond"ounrg--enatll,  pvreivryatseooanf.fairAss"yoaut

may suppose,

present.

1870-74]  FIRST EMPEROR OF GERMANY                                            295

  I' On Foreign Affairs vote a vote of confidence in

you and Granville* readily.'

   The ' urgent private affairs ' alluded to in this letter
were connected with the arrangements for the impend
ing marriage of the Duke's eldest son, the Marquis of

Lome, to H.R.H. Princess Louise, the fourth daughter

of Queen Victoria, which took place on March 21st,

1871.

   The Franco-Prussian War terminated early in 1871,
when Paris capitulated after a three months' siege.
The terms of peace gave to Germany an indemnity of
two hundred millions sterling, and the provinces of
Alsace and Lorraine.

   At the beginning of this year, the King of Prussia

was proclaimed Emperor of Germany. Some corre
spondence between the Duke and Professor Max
Miiller at a later period gives the Duke's impression of
the first Emperor of Germany.

          From Inveraray {April 11th, 1888).

Em' pMeyro'drIeWarirellaiPadmroyfoweusitrshosgrpr,eeeacthintethreest.otheIrt   day on the
                                                                              brought back
to me my dear old friend Bunsen and all his excitement
about German unity in 1848, when he was universally
laughed at in London. He came one day to a breakfast
at our house with great tricolour rosettes of the German
colours, and hideous they are as a combination of

colours.
   I' But you mention some things in your speech which,
if   u"ntdhearst taBnudnsethnema, dvairseednetwhetothmene.   You seem to
                                                            King to yield
say
to the Berlin mob, and to order off the troops ! Is

   * Lord Granville had been appointed Minister for Foreign
Affairs on the death of Lord Clarendon on June 27th, 1870.

296              THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR                                               [chap. xl

Ithis so ?       do not recollect hearing of it at the time.
I do recollect meeting the present Emperor,* then a
wfyeoelutretihn",crlaientteirSdetdat.fo"for"dbrHeoaukseh, isansdwohrids  "tewllihnegn  me that he
                                                                                        the troops

  I' When you say that the late Emperor was greater

than the greatest of all his predecessors, pause. Do
Iyou really think so ? Was he as great a man person
ally as Charlemagne ?                        doubt it ; but he chose
Bismarck, and that was an imperial office and an
imperial                              For    the rest, wonderful
tunities  orfefecroegdn--itiobnu.t  this is  always so with the                         oppor
                                                                                       world's

I Igred'aotnh'atacvtloiekres.bewehnatrehaedinsgays.youIrt  reviewer, Stephen, and
                                                           is meagre. He agrees
I I Iwith you where, confess, venture to differ.
Icannot identify  language and                             tflhoowuegrhwt itehxc"epvtegientatbhlee
                  can identify a
sense in which
vitality." Language seems to me a product of
thought, or, if you like, a vestment, an embodiment,
aanboevfeflo--ressocemnecteh. ing  But thought                           underneath, behind,
                                                 lies                    expression in sound.
                                    independent   of

Every day the scientific men are coining new words to
try to overtake the invasion of new concepts which
                  is suggesting.
Idis'cDovoeersy  anyone in Germany                         think anything              "ofPhthiloat
strange philosophical sect
sophy of the Unconscious            r"ep?resWenitledd                    by the        in some
                                                                         as it is
ways, think there is a great deal in it, and its percep
tion of the anti-materialistic aspects of Nature is
Irefreshing in these days of a corrupt Darwinism.

   ' have had a severe attack of gout, and am just
recovering. Pray excuse my desire to have a moment's
chat with you about my dear old friend Bunsen as well
as on other matters. How charming Bunsen was !
IYou say truly he was never understood by the John
Bull element in society.                                   shall never forget his

                  * The Emperor Frederick.

1870-74]          FIRST EMPEROR OF GERMANY                            297

enthusiasm in 1848, and the sadness with which, in
l"atIetr                                     speaking of the unity,
           days, he once said to me,         in favour of it-- as the
  I'
          will come some day."
          have always been heartily
Ibest check on France. But have doubts how far
unity under one Government is at all sure to stand.
Are you sure of it ?'

Professor Max Miiller replied (April 14th, 1888) :

'  My     ' dIedaird  Duke,
                      not wish
                                   to imply  that          Bunsen     advised
Ithe King to yield to the Berlin mob. Bunsen, as far

as remember, was not in Berlin at that time. Of
course, like everybody else, Bunsen was a little off his
balance in February, 1848, and he thought that what

Ihappened in 1871 ought to have happened in 1848.
believe he exercised an excellent influence on the
Prince of Prussia at that time, and his advice has
                  fruit.
Ibor' nWehgeonod  spoke   of  the  late    Emperor  as     great,  I  thought
I Ihad made it clear that spoke of his work, not of his
Ipersonal

to teach
          --gitfthsa. t  But that was the very lesson                 wanted
                         a very ordinary lever may be                 used in
history to lift the world out of its old hinges. He had
Ia good horse to ride, and he proved himself a good

jockey. In his character, so far as knew him, there
was much to admire. He never was self-indulgent ;
he was very humble, very industrious, very truthful.
How different from Napoleon le Grand ! As to
Charlemagne, we know very little of his private
character; what we know of his family life does not
give one a very high idea. But, great as the work is
which he achieved, it seems to me that a united Ger
many in the centre of modern Europe is a greater work ;
and the difficulties were enormous. No doubt the
IEtomo,peirsorpehrasdonaBlliysm--asrock's                  But Bismarck,
                                           assistance.  a  very ordinary

                                           am told --
mortal, and far less free from human weaknesses than
the Emperor. But he too knew how to ride his horse,

298                 ARMY REFORM                                     [CHAP. XL

and a splendid horse it was. In the end it was the
German people, and, in one sense, the German school
master, who really did the work. But that is under
stood ; and when we say that the Emperor won the
IBattle of Sedan, we mean his generals, his officers, his
soldiers down to    ftuhteuresmoafllGesetrmdarnuym. meIrf-boony.ly        have
great faith in the                                                  England
would take a leap, and openly join the league of peace,

I do not see how war for some time to come would
Ibe possible. Where admire Bismarck's cleverness is
in his allowing so much home rule to Saxony, Bavaria,
Wurtemberg, etc., and yet reserving all imperial
Iinterests for the Reichstag. That showed a bold hand

and real political genius. hope that no attempt will
be made to simplify matters, as they call it, and to
swallow up some of the minor principalities. They
are centres of life and very useful, without being
                  any longer.
Idan' gewroauss  so sorry to hear  of  your  attack  of  gout.      Sir
IAndrew Clark tells me suffer from suppressed gout.
I only hope he may suppress it altogether.'

   One of the questions which engaged the attention
of Parliament in 1871 was a scheme of Army Reform,
which included a provision for the abolition of the
purchase of commissions. Mr. Cardwell, the Minister
for War, introduced a Bill on the subject, which passed

the House of Commons and was sent up to the House
of Lords. The Duke of Richmond met the second
reading with an adverse motion (which was carried
by a majority of twenty-five) to the effect that the
House of Lords declined to read the Bill a second
time until a more comprehensive scheme of army

reorganization had been laid before the House. In the

course of a speech on this motion, in which the Duke

defended the Government proposals, he said (July 17th,

1871) :

1870-74]  ABOLITION OF ARMY PURCHASE                           299

   ' In the first place, to look at purchase in its ex

Iternal aspect, as compared with other institutions,
esuxpceppotsieoniatl.cannIott  be denied that  it is a system  wholly
                               does not exist                  nor in
                                               in the navy,
any other army in              the world, nor in
of your own army.                                 the scientific parts
                                  It is a system  which you confess
you would never have thought of introducing ; and,
lastly, it is a system which, as now practised, is illegal
... Iand contrary to law. These are facts which you
cannot deny.                   am speaking of the system of
Ipurchase as it is now practised, of which over-regula
tion prices are an essential element.             am not speaking
on my own authority in saying that the over-regulation
price is an essential part of the system, and cannot
be disentangled from the regulation price, for it is
pointed out by    theItRoisyaolbvCioomusmitshsiaotnewrshetnhaytouthealtlwowo
are inseparable.
men to bargain for a valuable commodity, and do
not interfere with their bargain, you cannot practi
cally regulate the price that will be paid ; they may
pay the regulation price overtly, but behind your
back they will make what additional bargain they

ple'asIne. the second place, how shall we define purchase

in itself without reference to other institutions ?
                                               antotitsbybeminegritc. alleId
Indignation has been            expressed                                       a
system of promotion            by money,                                      do

not wish to adopt any term implying anything in the

Inature of a prejudice ; wish to use language, in so
Ifar as can, which noble Lords opposite will recognise
Ias a fair representation of the facts ; say, then, that
          Aigsainp,roimt oistiopnromboytions,eniIorwityill  qualified by
purchase                                                    not say irre
money.
spective of merit, but irrespective of comparative
merit. The senior officer who has the money has the
right ; and whether he be a man of superior merit or
a man of very inferior merit is a matter of pure
chance. Purchase is a system of promotion, carried
up to the command of regiments, by seniority qualified

300                       ABMY REFORM      [CHAP. XL

by money, without any reference to comparative

Imerit. . . .
   ' will give you a third definition of purchase.
My noble friend [Lord Northbrook] has excited
     oabj"ursgpaidtieorn's  by describing  the purchase
                            web of vested  interests."
vehement

Isystem as
believe, however, offence was not taken at his saying
Iit was a web, but at his calling it a spider's web,
because a spider is an unpopular insect.   therefore

drop the spider, and say that the purchase system
constitutes the army one vast web of vested interests.
Is it possible to deny that ? You have from eight
million to ten million pounds sterling invested by
                     officers.  Dvoeesstendotintthearetsntsec?essaItrilyis
some 5,000 or 6,000  system of
imply an intricate
impossible to touch the army system at any point
without touching the vested interests which officers
'Ihave acquired. . . .
        would say, therefore, to noble Lords opposite,
who admit that purchase is not to be defended in
principle, that they will not be allowed to get off by
the use of such vague expressions in this House, and
that they will be brought to book by more critical
assemblies. Unless you can defend the purchase
Isystem by argument, when the public come to know,

as they must know (and wish to use nothing in the
shape of clap-trap, nor make any appeal to popular
prejudices), that the system is by your own admission
Iindefensible, you will find that it will be impossible
to maintain it.           counsel you, then, to give it up
in time. What is the use of fighting for a system
which all men of intelligence know to be dead and
gone ? What is the use of prolonging the contest in
favour of that system when you yourselves confess
that we now propose to abolish it by means of a
scheme which gives liberal and ample compensation
to the officers ? . . .'

The doom of purchase was not long delayed. It

existed by virtue of a royal warrant, not by virtue

1870-74] EDUCATION IN ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND 301

of an Act of Parliament, and, at a meeting of the

Cabinet on the day following the adverse motion in

the House of Lords, it was decided that Her Majesty

should be advised to cancel the existing warrant, and
that another warrant, abolishing purchase, should be
issued. The consent of the Crown to this course was

announced to the House of Commons on July 20th.
The Bill was afterwards passed by the House of Lords,

in order to secure the compensation to the officers

which the terms of the Bill provided.
   In the subject of education the Duke was deeply

interested, but he did not enter into the debates on

the English Education Bill of 1870. His attention
was naturally more engrossed by the Education Bill

for Scotland, the responsibility for which rested

largely with him. A Royal Commission, of which the

Duke was chairman, had been appointed in 1864 to

inquire into the condition of education in Scotland. In

1867 that Commission, which is generally known as
the Argyll Commission, issued a Report, showing that
the existing parochial system was in several respects
defective, and required amendment. A Bill embodying

the recommendations of the Commission was therefore

drafted, and was introduced in the House of Lords by
the Duke on February 25th, 1869. The substance of
his leading speech on the subject consisted of a critical

exposition of the differences between education in
Scotland and education in England.

' You must have been struck with the very great
difference which exists between the condition of public
Iopinion in Scotland and in England upon this great
subject of popular education.  think it cannot but
surprise some members of this House to be told that
a Commission, consisting of men of all political parties
and of all religious denominations in Scotland, has

302                   EDUCATION            [CHAP. XL

unanimously recommended the giving to a Central
Board such large and arbitrary powers of imposing

additional rates for educational purposes, enabling it
to go to great cities like Glasgow, having an important
municipal body, and direct the erection of a school in
any particular street or ward. How has this great
difference of feeling arisen ? Yoa will recollect the
terms in which, last year, when the noble Duke
                 Duke of Marlborough],     then President
opposite [the     introduced his Bill, he  referred to per
of the Council,
missive rating, the strong objections he urged to it,
Iand how impossible he thought permissive rating in
England.  really believe that if we were to propose
a Bill for England, with powers of compulsory rating
such                  particular  hair  IondtohenontobbleeliDeuveke'ist
head  as these, each  on end ;    and
       would stand
would receive the assent of anything like the same
proportion of men of all political parties in this country.
The question naturally arises, How has this great
difference of opinion between the two countries come
about ? How is it that the people of Scotland are so
anxious for education that men of all parties and of
all Churches are willing to ask for such powers as
these to be given to a Central Board ? The answer
to the question is that this state of opinion is due
to some of the great leaders of the Reformation in
Scotland. The parochial system in Scotland was
founded by John Knox, who laid down the principle,
which has never faded from the popular mind in
Scotland, that it is the duty and the function of the
State to insist upon the education of the people. In
language of singular eloquence and fervour, which,
even at this distance of 300 years, it is impossible
to read without emotion, he insisted before the
Parliament of Scotland that it was their absolute duty,
if they desired that the light of the Reformation
should be maintained in Scotland, to found a great

system of national education. Nor was it a mere
vague suggestion. Every part of the scheme, even

1870-74] EDUCATION IN ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND 303

that which we are now only about to adopt, was
laid down in that address by Knox. He provided for
the establishment of parish schools ; he desired to
see borough schools for the middle classes ; he desired
the erection of great colleges and Universities for the

higher education to be given to the higher classes.
Nay, more, he provided for annual and continual
inspection, and he laid down a principle which only
Ivery lately has been acknowledged in our legislation,
but which, strongly suspect,        is             atbhoeuct outontrpyl--aythaant
important part in the legislation    of

education in certain classes must even be made com
pulsory. That principle has been adopted by Parlia
ment in all the Factory Acts, and in other Acts
regarding the employment of children ; it has been

Iadopted bit by bit, slowly and quietly ; and believe
there are many persons who are not at this moment
aware of the extent to which our legislation is com
mitted to that principle in England. That principle
was laid down by the great Reformers of Scotland.
The advantages which she has derived from her par
ochial system have all sprung from that source ; and
it is due to the memory of these men to say that this
Isystem of general education was laid down by them

alone ; and, so far as know, in no other country to

which the Reformation extended was it adopted in
Ithe same degree, nor was the same importance attached

to it. So far as have been able to ascertain, no one
of the English Reformers laid stress upon the education
Iof 'thebepleieovpele,thbautt       Reformers of   Scotland alone.
                               the  secret of the  difference is this  :
                               the

that in Scotland the Reformation came from below,
while in England it came from above ; so that the
interests of the people were always foremost in the
minds of the Scottish Reformers,    and            htheinsceqtuheesytiodne.riveIdt
their singular clear-sightedness    on

is from this source that the Scottish people have
Iderived their strong appreciation of the blessings of

education. But, at the same time, am bound in

304             EDUCATION                                      [CHAP. XL

honesty to point out to this House that this Bill,
in many respects, widely diverges from the principles
laid' Itdowisn   by our early Reformers.
                unquestionably true that            in  their  time  the

education of    Sdacenondtolamdnedinnoamwtioiannsaatildoenssayilgstn--eemdt.hatotItisbewtaows shataoyt,   is
                                                                                                         be
now called a
both national                                                                                            it
was to be strictly national, but it was also to be
strictly religious. Such a system was possible at

that time. In the view of John Knox, the whole
population of the country was to be of one Church ;
and under these circumstances it was natural and
           deringohmt intahtaiotnatlhe--  national
perfectly                                 that is    system    should be
strictly                                            to say,    when the
people were all of one religion and of one Church, it
would be perfectly natural, and, in my opinion, per
fectly right, that Parliament should connect education
with the teaching of that Church. But, unfortunately,
we are not now in the position in which John Knox
was, or in which he hoped Scotland would be. For
though we are not much divided as regards doctrine,
yet we are keenly divided on points of ecclesiastical
discipline, and we can no longer hope for the establish
Iment of a united system of education under any one

Church. Under these circumstances, think a great
step is now proposed by the system provided by this
Bill : to cut off the connection between education and
the conduct of particular religious bodies. The in
spectors are no longer to be necessarily members of
any particular denomination, and they are not to be
confined to the inspection of schools connected with

any particular denomination. Above all, it is ex
pressly provided that they are to take no cognizance
of religious instruction unless the managers of the
schools themselves desire such cognizance to be taken.

This is an important part of the Bill, and without it
we could not possibly have had that assent to our
measure which we have received from all parts of the
country. We have full confidence that the ratepayers

1870-74]       SPEECH ON EDUCATION BILL                   305

will conduct the new schools in respect of religious
instruction much in the same way as the parish
schools have been conducted. There really is no
difference in
nominational    the management          of  Itthheas  different de
               schools in Scotland.                    been proved
over and over again that parents do not care in the
least degree what is the religious connection of the
school to which they send their children. They send
them to the best school, whether that school be an
Established Church school, or a Free Church, or a
United Presbyterian school. We propose, therefore,

to take no cognizance of religion in these schools. In
point of principle, this course is rendered all the more
easy by the example set last year by the noble Duke
opposite [the Duke of Marlborough], in recognising,
for the first time, secular schools in England as entitled
to a share in the Privy Council grants. We take no
notice of the religious instruction taught in any of
these schools, except this, that we impose upon all
the schools a stringent conscience clause. No public
money is to be given to any school that does not
Isubmit to such a clause. But the truth is, that here,

also, am glad to say, we are not met with the same

difficulties as those which prevail in England. In
Scotland it has always been the custom that Roman
Catholics may obtain the advantages of secular in
struction at the parish schools, without being com
pelled to go through the religious teaching. The
same system has been universally adopted in the
IFree

Ihave
Cbeheunrchinfoscrmhoeodls--athnoduginh  all others,   except, as  --
                                           hope it   is not true
that the Episcopal Church will not allow secular
instruction to be given in their schools without
the pupils going through the catechisms of their

Church.'

The opponents of the Bill, of whom the Duke of

Marlborough was the chief, laid stress on the question

of denominational education, and in a speech on the
VOL. II.
                                                      20

306                       EDUCATION                                    fcHAP. XL

second reading the Duke again dealt at some length
with this aspect of the subject.

' With regard to denominational education, I never
have objected, and never will object, to the principle
of denominational education, except upon one ground,
and that is that it is incompetent to overtake the
Iedu' cataigorneael  wants of the country.
                     in the opinion that in  itself,              and  in the
abstract, it is an advantage that children should be
brought up in connection with some definite system
of dogmatic teaching. But there is no denying the
fact that up to the present time there has been a
lamentable deficiency of education in Scotland under
a system which may be regarded as at once denomi
national and national. Let me remind the House that
in principle              oraldtinnga--tiornaatilngsysotenm
the system           the                                      of  Scotland  was
                      of                                     the   owners   and
occupiers of property, and if that system is intended
in the present day, you must take all the consequences
which flow from the extension of religious dissent.
You cannot have a system founded upon rating, among
a people who are divided in religious opinion, without
more or less impairing your denominational system.
But in Scotland, though the people are frequently
divided on points of ecclesiastical discipline, there is,
for the most part, tolerable unity in points of purely
religious doctrine. The national system of Scotland,
by a Bill which was passed some years ago, was sepa
rated from the exclusive connection with the Estab
lished Church. The masters may be Presbyterians,
Episcopalians, and in some cases Roman Catholics.
There is absolutely no restriction upon the choice of

schoolmasters.'

   The Bill passed the second reading, but was altered
in Committee, and was returned to the House of

Lords so late in the session that the consideration
of it was postponed.

1870-74]  RELIGIOUS EDUCATION                                              307

   The measure was not brought forward again until
1872, when, during the debate in the House of Lords,

the Duke spoke to the following effect :

  I' Without in the least desiring to utter anything that

might be regarded as a threat, should regard further
delay in the settlement of this question with con

siderable fear, lest it should result in the adoption
IowfhiachpuIrelolyoksefcourlwarardsyswteitmh  of education,      a result to
                                              much dread.         Under no
circumstances would be the mouthpiece of a Govern
ment which should propose the adoption of such a
Isystem, and therefore must be held free from uttering
Ithat warning in

to tell you that
          tIheamligahltaromf ead                    threat,  but am        bound
                                                     at the  prospect      of this
question of education being delayed much longer.
Although the Act of 1870 has been wisely accepted as
a compromise, both by the Church of England and by
a large portion of the dissenting Churches in this
country, no one can deny that a very alarming agita
tion has been got up against the principles of that Act,
and against any remaining relics of religious education

Iwhich were preserved by it. Even men for whom
have the highest respect show a tendency to adopt a
Ipurely secular system of education.
                                                             regard such a
Isystem

remain
          --asatanleimaspto, sdsiubrleingidetahle,  and such, hope, it     will

                                                    present generation.      It
would be very strange indeed                        if,

                                                                        ;
                                                    in this Christian
country, no child were to be allowed to receive any
religious teaching whatever in our schools that they
should receive an education without hearing the name
of God or receiving glimpse of a future state. My
          a

objection to the secular system that puts positive
                                                    is

                                                             it

obstructions in the way of religious education. The
advocates of the secular system recommend that the
masters should be actually prohibited from giving
religious instruction, and that religious instruction
should be given neither in the same place nor by the

                                                                 20--2

308                                EDUCATION                      [CHAP. XL

lute legislative restrictions upon religious education,
Iand cannot be one to recommend such a system to
..Pa'rlWiahmye, nwt.hat
                           .  the  real  necessity  under  which  we are

                         is

called to legislate at all on the subject of education ?

Is it not because the Churches have failed to overtake
the growing wants of the people ? And therefore,
unless the opportunity for religious instruction be
given in the national schools, it is almost certain that
a large proportion of the people will get no religious
instruction at all. On these grounds, then, on the
ground of the positive merits of the measure, on the
Iground that it finds a solution of the difficulties under

which we labour, venture to recommend it to the

Ifavourable consideration of your Lordships. It is not

without some reluctance that present to you a Bill
which, even in appearance, interferes with the system
of education which has existed so long in Scotland,
and of which we have been so proud, and which, as far
as it extends, has unquestionably done its work so well.
But the more you look at this Bill, the more you will
see that the edifice it proposes to raise is an edifice
raised on the lines of the ancient Scottish system, with
no other changes in it than those which are required
brseuylgagttheioesntecdohfatnhtghaeetdwCechousnrhcdohiuetilsodntloeogftahlsiazoetciesthotyceiea"tynu.dsethIatendhcahwsaonbngeteedn"
of the Scottish people in regard to religious education ;
but let us leave religious education to that use and
wont, and it will not be departed from, for the use and
wont of a people are far more powerful than any law
that we can pass. The Westminster Confession has a
strong hold on the majority of the people of Scotland,
and we may leave the religious instruction of the
young to them, with full confidence that under the new
scheme all that was good in the old system will be
continued and strengthened, and that the education
of the country will be permeated by that spirit which
has made it so successful for many centuries.'

1870-74]     UNIVERSITY TESTS      309

The Bill ultimately became law (August 6th, 1872),

and members of the Opposition united with his political

friends in congratulating the Duke on his successful

guidance of the measure. The Duke of Richmond
said in the House of Lords that ' there was no one more

competent than the Duke of Argyll to give information

with regard to the educational customs and require

ments of the people of Scotland.'  V]

Educational reform was not, however, confined to

questions affecting elementary schools, a Bill having

been introduced as early as 1868 by the Solicitor-

General, Sir J. D. Coleridge, for the abolition of those
University tests by which the professors, tutors, Fellows,

and scholars of the two great English Universities were

required to be members of the Church of England.

This Bill did not pass both Houses until 1871. During

the progress of the measure the Duke again expressed

his views on the relation of religious teaching to

education :

   ' My strong impression is that, while we leave the
religious teaching (that is, divinity teaching) at the
Universities in the hands of the Established Church,
we should not go further in the way of securing the
religious instruction of the young men attending the

I IUniversities. Some arguments have been used on

this side of the House which confess do not share
in. One right reverend prelate said the other night

Ithat he had no fear for Christianity. Neither have

   any such fear. Of course, we all have confidence

in the ultimate triumph of Christianity, but it is

very possible that we may have to go through periods
of infidelity, and of the upsetting of everything that
has been considered most sacred ; we may have to

Igo through deep waters before we reach the shore.

am also firmly convinced that if such convulsions
should happen to the country the calamity will be civil

310                 EDUCATION                              [OHAF. XL

Iand political as well as religious, and therefore am
as anxious as any man to see what security can be
                 for the religious instruction
oBbuttaiIneadm    satisfied that the forms of      of the young men.
                                                   modern doubt, the
difficulties which young men harbour with respect to
Ireligious questions, are such as cannot be kept out
by safeguards like that which is proposed.                               trust
that so long as the religious teaching of the Universities
is left in the hands of the Church of England, they will
be able to provide professors and teachers of divinity
who will continue the great work of Butler, and show
by argument, following closely the advance of modern
thought and the investigations of modern times, that
the idea too commonly entertained that the dis
coveries of science have upset the foundations of
Christian faith, and that the truths of natural and

Irfevtehaelered   religion cannot  be reconciled, is unfounded.
                 are doctors and   teachers of divinity who are

able to meet their adversaries on this ground, the
Church of England will succeed in answering her

opponents.'

The Duke always greatly appreciated the devotion

of Scotsmen to learning, and an illustration of the
interest he felt in the progress of education among the
people on his own estates is given in a letter to
Mr. Gladstone, written from Campbeltown in the year

1861 :                                                     ' September 9\st.

I' am not going to write on politics to-day. I wish
Ito tell         you of two examples               wofhicShc,otItisthhinekd,ucwaotiuonld
                  have seen lately, and
which
have    interested             as they              have   interested me.
Three   weeks ago   yI owu,as  visiting            a very  remote district
of the island of Mull, where the people are very
numerous and very poor, and of a pure Celtic breed,
English          amhaovnigngtheonpelyopllea.telyI                        at all
rapidly                                              been  advancing     school,
                                                   passed  a small side

1870-74]                SCOTTISH EDUCATION                                        311

the teacher        ofI  which  is            paid  by a women's society                in
Edinburgh.               went  in            and   found about a score                 of

young children in a small thatched cottage, and asked
the master to let me hear them read. The boys who
read were from ten to fourteen years of age. They read
Ia book of extracts, with excellent intonation and

observance of punctuation. But as knew that not
Ione of them ever spoke one word of English at his own

fireside, suspected that they could not understand
all the rather long words which they were reading.
One little creature, with a rag of a kilt that hardly
Icovered him, read             a sentence about                                        of
                                                                 of   itthe"  mode
preparing lead ore,       and the                  wa"sWhinhgat   is          to free  it
from all extraneous       matter."
                                                                      extraneous       ?"

   asked. Some of          the     koilltderanbsowyesredhesaittateodnc, e,bu"t  the
little fellow with        the                                                   Not

Ibel'onghinagvetoaistkseedlf."several people since to define the
meaning of extraneous, and not one has given so neat
and complete an answer as that urchin. He could
not possibly have expected the question, nor have
                        for it.
bee' nThperepnaerxetd   example              is of a different        kind.     This

district of Argyllshire was the refuge of many Covenant
ing families, under the protection of the Marquis and
Earl of Argyll, during the persecutions of Charles and
James. Their descendants still flourish in the district,
many of them being tenants on the estate, and forming
a strong body of United Presbyterians, into which
most of the old Dissenters have become merged. One
family of the name of Huie we visited two days ago in
                   "ofinotuhretomuidr dolfe  the  farms. They have a small
t"hehocloduinrsge                             of          rmaopsids,lyanodutt--hethheoufsieres
                                                  a peat
are of the         old fashion now                going
in the middle of the floor, the smoke curling up through
                               a circular                   litintlethe"      pthaarltocuhred"
blackened          beams  to   the table           orifice
roof. We           found  on                       in a

ShyW. Hamilton's lectures, Thucydides, and some
Latin classics. The sons are the best ploughmen in

312                        CHURCH AND STATE                            [CHAP. XL

the country, and in the evenings they read hard, one
of them having taught himself Greek, Latin, and
French, with no other assistance than that which a
small parish school could afford. The father has for
the last two sessions been able to send one of the sons
to Glasgow University, where he at once took a prize
for Greek and French. This lad was out teaching in
Ithe borough school to eke out his means. We met him

coming home, and asked him some questions about
the Glasgow professors. Of Lushington, the Greek
professor, a man of high reputation, this youth reported
tshuacct,essthfuolugtheacahegr,ooadndsc"hodlaidr  himself, he was not a
                                                  not bring out fully the

beauties   of the Greek language."                wooden  chair,       brought
   ' They  have in the house an old
with the                                          from    Ayrshire, with
the date   "fa1m62i6ly  "  when they came          The    father seemed
                            carved upon it.
very proud of this Covenanting heirloom, and said that
   sat in it every         night                  his sons read.
'Ihe                        one    while          often this sort  of  stuff  in
      do not think                meets
any other country in the world, and Scotland has
good reason to be proud of it.'

   Two years after the passing of the Scottish Educa
tion Bill, another measure affecting Scotland was laid
before Parliament. The Conservative Government,
which, as before mentioned, came into power in
February, 1874, brought forward a Bill for the Aboli
tion of Church Patronage in Scotland. The intro
duction of this measure was a source of satisfaction
to the Duke, who, as he records in his 'Autobiography,'
had been interested in the question from his boyhood.
Speaking in the House of Lords on the 2nd of June,
1874, in support of the second reading of the Bill, the
Duke said :

  ' It is a Bill which has been conscientiously framed

on the ancient principles of the Church of Scotland.

1870-74]       CHURCH PATRONAGE IN SCOTLAND                                   313

It has been accepted by an overwhelming majority of

the great representative body of the Church ; and it is
calculated, if carried, to do great good to Scotland.' .,

   The Government measure provided that Church
patronage, instead of being in the hands of the patrons
of the livings, should in future be vested in the mem
bers of the Parish Church. To this electorate there

were added, on the amendment of the Duke of Argyll,
certain ' members of the congregation, under regulations
which are to be framed from time to time by the

General Assembly of the Church of Scotland.'

   In the speech before mentioned (June 2nd) the Duke

replied to Mr. Gladstone's assertion that one year's
stipend was not compensation enough for patrons :

' It is often said that patronage ought not to be
deemed a right of property, but a trust ; but there is
no essential opposition between the two terms. There
may be a right of property which is a trust, and a
trust which is a right of property. Patronage, in
the eyes of the law, is a right of property, transmitted
to heirs, and purchasable in the markets ; yet it is
also, and is generally recognised to be, a trust for
public purposes. Patronage had probably the same
origin in England and in Scotland ; but since the
Reformation the history of the institution has been
wplhaoinlltyI             in the two countries.    The   only com
               different  that in assigning one  year's  stipend of
               make is,
the living as the amount of compensation, the Duke
of Richmond is giving patrons very much more than
they could ever get in the market. Patronage in
Scotland,                      gRreeafot rmlimaittiaotni,onhsa--s baetenalla  right
qualified      ever since the                                                 times
               by many and
by the standing declaration on the part of the Church
that no minister was to be intruded on any congrega
tion against its will ; sometimes by a very large dis
cretionary power on the part of the Church courts

314               CHURCH AND STATE                                       [CHAP. XL

to consider objections by the people, and to reject a
representee if unqualified for the particular parish ;
at other times by the adoption of a system approach
ing to direct election.'

  It may here be mentioned that the Duke of Argyll

was one of those patrons who declined to accept any
compensation for the loss entailed by the abolition of

patronage.
   Mr. Gladstone used all his influence to oppose this

ecclesiastical reform, and spoke against it in the House

of Commons. To Lord Selborne he expressed his

conviction that if the Bill were passed ' it would

lead to a movement for Disestablishment in Scotland

more serious than any that had been known there,

and one that would be likely to spread into England.'*
   On June 20th he wrote to the Duke of Argyll on the

subject of the Bill :

' It is true that much consideration of the Patronage
IBill has convinced me                that it is     precipitate, unwise,
                                                  a
sahnoduldda--rinfogrgimveeamsuereif.  It is not
                                      say hastily    u--nansactruibrael   that you
                                                                         an opinion
of this kind to my early prejudices against a Pres
byterian Establishment. However that may be, it
Iis most painful to me to contemplate being dragged
into ecclesiastical turmoils.                     hope that the blow
which has fallen upon me [the death of his brother-
in-law, Sir Stephen Glynne] may be some security
against words or acts needlessly tending to embitter
Istrife. Above all,                   hope that if anyone should
Icompel me to name you, shall give no reason to

complain.'

            To Mr. Gladstone {June 2Qth).

I ' There was a   part of your        last        letter to  mIe          on which
   was unwilling   to touch at        the         moment                 replied to

            * ' Life of Lord Selborne,1 vol. i.

1870-74]               CHURCH PATRONAGE                           315

it. You say that, if compelled to refer to me, I shall
have no reason to complain of the way in which you
may do so. Our connection, personal and political,
has been a pretty close one now for more than twenty
Iyears, and hope it is incapable of being shaken by
Idifferences which may emerge.                      wish you to speak
Ias freely as you like, and shall do the same. But
I Ithis is a subject on which feel so strongly that
have a sort of feeling that it would not be open of

I Ime did not tell you some of the aspects in which
regard it.
   ' You are the only surviving member of the Govern
ment of 1843 who has any political power. That
Government resisted my father's Bill, which would

Ihave prevented the secession, and generally pursued

a course on which, think, history has already pro
nounced its verdict. Graham expressed more than
once before his death the purest doubt, if not re
Ipen' tandcoen, 'tofsutphpeosceouyrsoeu  which had been
                                          had any very    taken.  share  in
                                                         active
anything done, or not done. But in so far as you
have spoken at all, it has been in defence of that
Government and in rebuke of my condemnation
of it.

  ' It seems to me simply a prolongation of the same
injurious policy towards the interests of the Estab
lished Church          iantbhaiSnrtcdyootnlmayeneadnrts,thoadftenpoayutornuocneasgheoas.uld"Idnacorawinn,gnoat"t
an interval of
a Bill for the
Ibut recollect that on several occasions on which
have lately spoken of the interests of the Established
Church, both the Lord Advocate Young and yourself
have referred to the hostility of the clergy to your
Government and party ; and on my representing that
the clergy of the English Church were generally
                         also,  you  would   never  admit  the analogy.
IConthsienrkvatiivt e  hard     and  unjust   that  when    the leading

patrons   in  tShceoirtla"npdrohpaevrety  c"omase   to see the uselessness
and evil  of
                                                   it stands, others should

316                CHURCH AND STATE                              [CHAP. XL

step in to prevent them from accomplishing what is
  g' reant eaecdt  of justice  tthoattheIiracmounntoryt mneonw.
Ia                 not say                                       arguing   the
Imerits of the question.
                                         am simply explaining
Icertain points of view                            regard it, in ex
                                                feel called upon to
planation of anything
                               from  Iwmhiacyh
                               that
Isay in the course of the controversy which, can see,
is only beginning.
   ' Many of my tenants are United Presbyterians.                                I
saw yesterday their minister, Dr. Boyd, a most ex
cellent man, who told me he felt with me the invidious-

ness of their opposing the measure, and he had steadily
refused to have any part in any petition against it.
  'The dread of infection as regards the English
Establishment and patronage is still more unjust as
an operative motive. The whole principles of the
two Establishments are fundamentally different, and
                   to be dealt with in its own spirit.
                   Lords, however, abstain from
Ieac' hInoutghhet                                                voting    or

speaking on any question affecting the English Church,
not renouncing my right, of course, in an extreme
case, but not feeling that my views and predilections
     me a fair and fitting judge         of     its affairs.
                                         in     the sense
     r. have to say anything
Ima' kIef                                                        of        these

feelings in public, should dislike not having indi
cated them to you beforehand.'

                   To Mr. Gladstone. {July 6, 1874).

                                                ' Columba, yacht.

  ' There is absolutely no novelty, as it seems to me,
in allowing the congregation of the Established Church
to select their ministers. Under the Act of 1690
(which was the revolution settlement, and of which
the Act of Anne was a Tory violation) the congregation
had the control of the appointment, first, in that the
Kirk Session                   voice in  pfirnoaplosi"nga,pparnodvalthoer
                   had a       had the                                     con
gregation, as      such,                                                    dis

approval."

1870-74]           CHURCH PATRONAGE                                   317

' Give the congregation this, and then patronage
          to have any significance one way or another.
ceases    seems a strange idea that an essential feature
                   Church                            tohfat"    iitnstruedneinmgie"s
  ' It             to have
of an Established              should be
and opponents are               the power
ministers on its
   ' This idea is  pcounreglryeg"atAionngslic! an,"  and seems to me
altogether unreasonable in theory, as well as un
founded on historical fact.
   ' We have had four days of tremendous weather,
violent gales and torrents of rain ; but we landed and
went to a fishing-lodge in the Isle of Mull, where the
I Ihouse seemed likely to be blown down about our ears.
   ' hope to                                                    wait
                                                                that
I Iprobably till
          pohsteatrh--is   at  Oban.   to            sdhoa--ll        at Oban
                          as     hope                                 you and

your voluntary and other Radical allies have been well

beaten !                  ' Yours most sincer'eAlyr,gyll.'

   The Bill was actually carried the day this letter was
written, by the large majority of 307 to 109.

   Two months later (September 11th, 1874) the Duke
wrote to Mr. Gladstone with reference to a recent

speech by him on the Patronage question :

I' have far more to say about your ecclesiastical
I Ispeeches than can say in a letter.                must reserve it
Ito the time when we may meet.
                                                     may say, however,
that, as regarded the Scottish one, no one sentence in
it seemed to me to be valid argument, except the
passage in which you spoke of the needlessness and
Irisk of                         "BDuitspyuoteud uSnedtetlrermateentsthe"

scandal
          making the change.
          which has arisen from
under the Aberdeen Act. Still, not only admit, but
have long urged, the danger of any Parliamentary

Imovement on such subjects. But 200 years ago
might have advised a low country laird not to move or
display his cattle if Highland rovers were in sight;

318                          CHURCH AND STATE                     [chap. xt

but what you have done is to denounce this very
                                                and to cheer on the
Ilegitimate                       as a wrong,
                                  cattle !
rovers to
         "olpifetra"titohne
' As to motives, see no evil in a Church desiring to
strengthen its position with the mass of its own people,
even though it  s"hocuolmd pbeensaatmioantte"r  of jealousy       to others.
   ' As to the                                  you spoke          of, from
whom is it due ?
                             the  class  which  you         represent --viz.,
   ' Clearly from
those who refused in Parliament to give what the

majority of the assembly asked. Whereas you repre
sent it to be due from the men who merely assented
                                                 This
and submitted to the refusal.                   have        wseee"mPseetloitesm"e
unjust, and, further, what right
                                  fsourchhavevrinygdicffhearenngtedcotnhdeitiironvsie--w
to blame Churchmen
about patronage under
we who crossed right over from Conservatism to
Radicalism, some of us ?
   ' Nevertheless, there are companies before whom it
is unwise to show one's watch or one's purse, and in

this sense it may not have been wise in any Established
Church to go to Parliament for anything, however just
Ior
'  (otherwise) expedient.                with  you  in      your  argument,
   So far can go along
but no further. . . .
I' As to your English Church speeches, there was one
golden   --setnhtaent cien,    which have      copied out, to     be kept
for use                      which you drew    the distinction    between

the State admitting any abstract right in churches to
override the law, and the State in the exercise of its
own discretion, adjusting its laws to make them
compatible with those principles inherent in the
constitution of a religious society. Excellent, and a
complete answer to all                                      of principle made
against the Patronage             thBeillob! jecItfionyosu   only apply this
distinction to legislation connected with the Presby
terian Church, which you very properly desire to apply
to legislation about the Anglican Church, the questions
in dispute will be much simplified.

1870-74] MR. GLADSTONE AND DISESTABLISHMENT 319

  a' There will be long fight before Disestablishment

comes, unless there is a split in the English Church.
But perhaps a Church which cannot afford to have its
existing law enforced, although that law be consistent
with a very large comprehensiveness, is hardly a
Church which can keep together long.'

Following the discussion on the Patronage Bill, a

crusade was started in favour of Disestablishment,

and the Duke believed that Mr. Gladstone was quite

prepared to disestablish the Church of Scotland. With

this impression on his mind, he wrote in December

to Sir Roundell Palmer :

  I' don't suppose    that Mr. Gladstone has come to    an--y

formal resolution    to "go in for" Disestablishment
Icertainly not in England, though suspect he is quite
ready so far as Scotland is concerned. The campaign
opened in Scotland is, of course and avowedly, a
campaign against all establishments, attacking the
one they think the weakest. But how far Gladstone
I I Iis ready to support the policy as regards England,
  cannot say. think told you that he wrote to me
weeks ago that the two measures passed last session
by a Conservative Government had advanced Dis
Iestablishment, or brought it nearer, "by at least ten
years, out of what number       cannot estimate," or
words to that effect. But this is a sort of thing that
may be said by anyone. Gladstone's temptation to a
Disestablishment policy is his dislike of the sort of
legislation to which the Church would be exposed by
a Liberal Parliament, the sort of thing that was
threatened last session against the Scottish Church in
the Liberal amendment, making ratepayers the con
           for the   choice of             And   Iwistuhppothsee
           aversion  from this           thing,
Istituency                      clergy.
                                sort of
feeling of         would sympathize. But
both you   and                               you see    the
result of  this  as affecting tendencies of   feeling.
                                                         It
makes the policy of Disestablishment the best card

320                             CHURCH AND STATE            [CHAP. XL

to play, both for the leadership of the Liberal party
in politics and for the resistance of Liberalism in
ecclesiastical affairs. When so many currents are
all found running into one main stream, that stream
Iis                                                river.
   c' leadrloyn'dtetshtiinnekd  to become a great  said to  owe                                                             it  to
                                Gladstone can be

his former colleagues as yet to make any declaration
on the subject, unless, indeed, he has made up his
Imind as to a practical course. But we are all free to

take our own line, and will not now consider myself
under Gladstone's leadership, especially in ecclesiastical

matters.'

   A letter from the Duke to Lord Selborne (Sir

Roundell Palmer), written twelve years later, refers to
the question of Church and State :

  ' Many thanks for your book ("A Defence of the

Church of England "). You put it all very clearly,

Iand in the main go along with you completely.
ISome thirty years ago, when was studying our own
Ihistory about relations between Church and State,
wrote that the Royal supremacy in England seemed
to me to be, historically, the affirmative form of a
negative proposition, the negative proposition being
that no foreign Prince or potentate had authority in
England, and this denial was most conveniently
enforced and embodied in the affirmative proposition
Ithat the national Sovereign was in all causes supreme.

   ' think this is substantially the result of your
Ioabnsa' elIyrsvhiasat,vioeannadsthyiatetsteooecmnclusyrshciotsomtopmrlieectaeilsdlythPuiasn--rdtetnLhi,aabtalen.dthtihnek
                                                                                                                            only
                                                                                                                            you
underrate the significance of the change which is
involved in the proportion in which dissent, unbelief,
               in the people    and in Parliament.
etc., exists    as there was     practically only one       religion,
    ' So long
Ithe connection between Church and State which exists

in England was nothing more than natural. But

1870-74]    CHURCH AND STATE                                         321

I Iconfess  have not the same feeling  about         the  connection
            matters actually stand.
now-- as
    ' ought to add that, in my interpretation, the Royal
supremacy, besides being a denial of Papal supremacy,
was also the only form in which the rights of the laity
in                                 were expressed    or asserted.
    'CThhuirschmeqauneisntgionosr  significance was  less conscious
                                                                     than
the other. But it is easy to see that implicitly it was
involved.'

VOL. 11.                                                  21

                    CHAPTER XLI

                                                 1876-80

          THE EASTERN QUESTION-- ORNITHOLOGY

The early period of Mr. Disraeli's Administration was
mainly occupied with questions referring to home
politics. The Duke did not take any very prominent
part in the debates, except when the Church of Scot
land Patronage Bill was before the House, until his
interest was aroused on the subject of the Eastern
Question. He was strongly opposed to the Turkish
policy of the Government, as he considered the atti
tude adopted towards Turkey and towards the
European Concert a deliberate reversal of the policy,
the abstract wisdom of which he always upheld,
which led to the Crimean War, and was enunciated in
the Treaty of Paris. The Duke entered fully into the
history of the Eastern Question in a book* which he
published a few years later. The following paragraph,
quoted from this book, describes the origin of the
difficulties in the East :

    ' The Eastern Question was raised by native insur
rections in the provinces of Turkey, excited and
justified by the gross misgovernment of the Porte.
The whole Eastern Question, therefore, as it was then
raised, resolved itself into this : how the abuses and

   * 'The Eastern Question,' by the Duke of Argyll; published
in 1879.

1876-80]  SPEECH IN GLASGOW         323

vices of Turkish administration were to be dealt with
by the Powers which had supported Turkey in the
Crimean War, and by those other Powers, embracing
all the principal Governments of Europe, which had
ultimately signed the treaties of 1856.'

   On the 19th of September, 1876, the Duke spoke
at a great meeting in Glasgow, called by the Lord
Provost, and moved the first resolution, which was to
the following effect :

   ' That this meeting of citizens of Glasgow regards
with horror and indignation the atrocities perpetrated
by the Turks on the inhabitants of Bulgaria and of the
other provinces, and denounces the Ottoman Govern
ment for allowing such outrages on humanity, and for
not punishing the responsible agents.'

   After the meeting, the Duke wrote to Lord Gran
ville (September 20, 1876) :

  I' The meeting
Iaddressed. More
          was the most formidable ever
           than 3,300 people, all men --
don't think there were ten women in the whole
hall--largely working men. The row was tremen
dous from the pressure and discomfort, the crowd
swaying to and fro in a frightful way under the
Idistant gallery.

   ' After a few sentences caught the ear of the meet
Iing, and spoke for one hour and a half, having to
curtail in several points what      intended. They

listened attentively to the last.'

   This speech produced a great effect, not merely on
the audience, but throughout the country, and the
Duke received numerous appreciative letters, both
from friends and strangers. From these, the follow

ing extracts are quoted :

                                                                                21--2

324                THE EASTERN QUESTION                  [chap. xli

From Lord Granville (W'aimer Castle, September 24th,

                                         1876).

I' am very glad you are going to publish your mag
nifi'cGenretatspeaescihs. my admiration for the hostile sex, men
are, after all, the best audience. They cheer, which
Iwomen and Peers do not.
                                                         presume not an
   ' What is to be the upshot ?
autumn session. The fact of Hartington and Glad
                              it makes it              more unlikely, and
Istodnoe   having  proposed                            Government would
          not see  on what   grounds the
summon Parliament. . . . We must propose a vote
of censure of some sort or other, which would be de

feated in both Houses by large majorities.'

      From Lord Playfair (September 22nd, 1876).

  I' Since the Eastern Question rose in prominence

have been travelling in Brittany, and have read with
much interest all the speeches in regard to it ; but none

Ihave gone to my heart and understanding so much as

your Grace's speech at Glasgow, and am sure you
wil'l   allow   me to  say so to           yourself.
       Your    speech  was not             declamation,  but an admir

able succinct review of the situation, and must do

great good.'

       From the Workmen's Demonstration Committee

                       (September 30, 1876).

' Your Grace's speech at Glasgow on the Eastern
Question has been the subject of consideration at a
special meeting of this committee, and they are of

opinion that it is by far the ablest and most effective
exp' oTshiteioncomofmtihteteesubtjhecintk  that   has  yet appeared.
                                            it   most   desirable, in  order

to promote the full understanding of this question,
that your speech should be reprinted for circulation
amongst the working classes, and they have resolved,

1876-80]  THE ARMENIAN MASSACRES  325

if your Grace will permit, to issue it in a penny

pamphlet.'

   In 1896, after the Armenian massacres of 1894 and

1895 had excited indignation in the Christian world,
the Duke published another book entitled ' Our Re
sponsibilities for Turkey,' in which he reviewed the
' Facts and Memories of Forty Years.' As this book
contains the Duke's matured views of the policy pur
sued by our Government, a few quotations dealing
with the earlier stages of the Eastern difficulty are

given here, to explain his attitude with regard to the
situation in the East at this period :

' The Treaty of Paris, which terminated the war in

mpb18oya5ldii6cre,ryeuvwosoancfsaobrwelaehmicocdhsoetnectdaehssneataranwntdaaetrdiboyhnaedidxnepfaribnejeisoteseiinnonttruarnenodssfeparcotttnahiokseneibsni.wl--ithyof--olIetr
the very existence of the Turkish Government as a
Power even pretending to independence. Not only
did we save Turkey for the moment from entangling
engagements with Russia, which would have left her
in a position of vassalage and practical subjection,
but we determined largely and effectually to disarm
her hereditary foe in the whole region of Turkish terri
tory most open to Russian attack. We had exhausted
the resources of Russia by a long and bloody campaign,
carried on at one extremity of her Empire. We had
destroyed her fleet. We had ruined her one great
arsenal in the Euxine. But not content with this, we
imposed on her a treaty stipulating that this arsenal
should not be restored, and that no Russian Black
...Sea fleet was to be formed again, so that Turkey
might dwell in peace.  In return for these great
services, all that we asked from Turkey was an en
gagement that she would afford to her own people
some tolerable government corresponding to her new

326   THE EASTERN QUESTION                                                                  [chap. xli
position, some administrative system recognising the
fundamental principles of European civilization, and
extending to all classes of her subjects some security

*****for life, religion, property and honour.
' The Treaty of 1856 gave Turkey a secure and un
disturbed opportunity for putting her house in order.
The reforms which she had promised could have been
not only well begun, but well established, during the
tranquil course of so long a period. . . . She had no
less than twenty years for this purpose ; and how did
      employ them ?
she'  No great draft on  space  or  time  is  needed                                    to  answer

this question. One word sums up the whole result of
Turkish promises : Nothing.

   ' With this year (1875) we enter the rapids, and are
very near the cataract. Causes long in operation were
now to produce their inevitable effects, and events
were precipitated with a crash. The stereotyped
abuses of Turkish government at last roused insurrec
tions in its European provinces. The not less stereo
typed brutalities of Turkish Governors and troops
Iwere employed to crush all resistance to them. . . .

What wish to do now is simply to point out what,
as a nation, we actually did in the crisis which began
in 1875 and ended in the Treaty of Berlin in 1878.
. . . Although we knew that the insurgents had
frightful grievances, and that they demanded nothing
more than the most elementary benefits of a civilized
government ; although we knew that the Turks were,
as usual, committing against them acts of perfidy and
deeds of butchery, we actually implored the Porte to
hasten to put down the insurrection with their own
forces, so as to prevent it from being made the subject
odfid'foInnreoitagdnredmrienestmseirnbvgeerns--tuiocbnhu.tanweexohuogrhttattioonhatvoe
                                                                                        the Porte, we
                                                                                         remembered

1876-80]                    BULGARIAN ATROCITIES                        327

--that the Turks have only one way of dealing with
all revolts against their own misgovernment, and that
is by raising irregular troops, the greatest ruffians in
their dominions, and by allowing and encouraging
them to butcher men, women, and children as the sign
and pledge of victory. Of course, we did not mean
this ourselves ; but this is what did actually happen,
what does always happen, and what we ought to have
known would inevitably happen. Accordingly, the
horrible massacres in Bulgaria were perpetrated in
May, 1876, at the very time when we were again
urging on Turkey the necessity of energetic action
to  'sTuhpepreTsusrktihseh  revolt.
                             massacres
                                        in  Bulgaria  began  in  May,
but were not authentically known till August, 1876.
Mr. Gladstone's celebrated pamphlet denouncing them
was published early in September.
   ' The effect of the massacres in Bulgaria on the
public mind is one of the events of history. We were
all horrified, with the rest of Europe. But not even
then would we join the rest of Europe in active inter
vention. We simply told the Turks that if they were
attacked by Russia it had now become practically
impossible, owing to the state of public feeling, for
us to intervene to save them. . . . Russia behaved
with perfect frankness. She told us that if we held
back she would act alone. But again she begged us,
backed by all the other Powers, to act together and
in concert. . . . We absolutely refused. But we
proposed a European Congress of special Envoys at
...Constantinople. This was accepted by all the Powers.
At that Congress            we asserted strongly our right,
and the right of Europe, to insist on substantial guaran
tees for the fulfilment of Turkish promises. . . . The
Turk resolutely refused to yield. He would consent,
indeed, to renew certain promises, but he would allow
no practical guarantees. . . .
   ' Our  declared policy was peace                                     and
at any    price, be it noted, not to        aoturasnelyvepsr--icefo, r   we

328            THE EASTERN QUESTION           [chap. xli

incurred no risk--but  to the  ahe"lpplersosfoumnidllliyonvsicoiovuesr
                       upheld
whom we had so long
Government." Fortunately, Russia stood firm, and
in a series of replies, each more temperate and yet more
conclusive than the last, she told us that she could
not and would not any longer tolerate the complete
abandonment by Europe of its duty towards the sub
jects of the Porte.
   ' Then followed the war, which proved more than

ever, if there was need of any proof, that Turkey
could not stand before Russia.
   ' After a few transient successes, Turkey was beaten

both in Asia and in Europe. In a brilliant campaign
in the depth of winter, Russia poured her armies over
the Balkans, took Adrianople without a struggle, and
stopped only when the defensive lines of Constantinople
itself were surrendered at discretion. . . .
   ' Russia  manignhotunucneddouhbetredrelysohlvaevetoockceueppiedit.CoItnswtaonutlid
nople, and
have been very difficult for us to turn her out, and the
struggle to do so must have involved a tremendous

war. But it is a memorable fact that in the Treaty
of San Stefano, which she dictated before the open
and undefended capital of the East, Russia belied the
suspicions with which we had been so long in
flamed. . . .
new' ThdeismTeremabteyrmoef nStanofStTefuarnkoeyw. asItnoitnhfilnicgtesdhoortn
                                                                                of a
                                                                                 her
physically a tremendous loss when it deprived her of
the geographical defences of the Balkans and the
Danube ; but it inflicted on her morally and politically
a still deeper and more fatal loss when it proclaimed
her in the face of the world to be a Power which could
not be trusted with the fulfilment of her own most
solemn promises, and when it demanded for her
subject populations the elementary securities of
civilized life as rights which could only rest on posi
tive stipulations with a foreign Power. . . .
   ' We insisted that every part of the San Stefano

1876-80]  THE TREATY OF BERLIN                         329

Treaty must be submitted to a European Congress.
Russia did not object to a Congress.'

   This Congress resulted in the Treaty of Berlin, the
provisions of which are described by the Duke as
follows :

   ' The Treaty of Berlin is substantially the Treaty
of San Stefano in all its essential features. . . . But
we insisted on a change in the Treaty of Berlin, a
change which altered immensely for the worse the
Treaty of San Stefano. We insisted on reverting to
the principle of the Treaty of Paris, which substituted
a European for a Russian protectorate. . . . This,
obviously, was taking upon ourselves, in conjunction
with the other Powers of Europe, a function which
we had never been able to discharge even in Europe,
and it was still more impossible we could discharge
in Asia. . . . What was everybody's business was
nobody's business, and twenty- two years' experience
had proved that this miscellaneous protectorate was
quite useless for its professed purpose.'

The war with Afghanistan, which broke out in 1879,

was, in the opinion of the Duke, the result of the policy

of the Government on the Eastern Question. In the

spring of 1878, with the view of keeping in check the

advances of Russia in Europe, Lord Beaconsfield

arranged for the despatch of a force of Indian troops

to Malta. Russia's counter-move was to send a Mission

to Afghanistan, which was reluctantly received by the

Amir. The Duke's view of this action on the part

of Russia is given in the following words :*

I' must at once express my opinion that, under
whatever circumstances,   or from  w^awsharetecveeirvedm, oittivweass,
the Russian Mission was  sent and

          * 'The Eastern Question,' vol. ii., p. 499.

330                THE EASTERN QUESTION                     [chap. xu

impossible for the British Government to acquiesce
in that reception as the close of our transactions with
the Amir upon the subject of Missions to his Court.
We cannot allow Russia to acquire predominant, or
even co-equal, influence with ourselves in Afghanistan.
The Cabinet was, therefore, not only justified in taking,
but it was imperatively called upon to take, measures
to ascertain the real object of that Mission, and if it
had any political character, to secure that no similar
Mission should be sent again.'

   In a letter to Mr. Gladstone (November 4, 1878) the

Duke wrote :

' The Times correspondent from Darjeeling to-day
Isays the Amir has deliberately preferred a Russian

alliance. Now, have seen the official account sent
to Lytton of the circumstances under which the Amir
          "thdeelibReursastiealyn                           it shows that he
received                           "Misresicoeniv, e  and   On the contrary,
did not                                                it.
he was very reluctant to receive it, and was only
bullied into it.'

   In these circumstances, it was evident that negotia
tions with the Amir would require careful diplomacy.

The Duke treated of this point as follows :*

   ' Considering that, under the circumstances which
have been narrated, the sending of the Mission could
only be considered a war measure on the part of Russia,
and had arisen entirely out of circumstances which
threatened hostilities between the two countries ; con
sidering, farther, that, as regarded the reception of
the Mission, we had ourselves placed the Amir in a
position of extreme difficulty, and had reason to
believe and to know that he was not in any way
party to the Russian policy in sending it, justice abso
lutely demanded, and our own self-respect demanded,

                   * ' The Eastern Question,' vol. ii., p. 500.

1876-80]         AFGHANISTAN                          331

that we should proceed towards the Amir with all the
dignity of conscious strength and of conscious respon
sibility for the natural results of our own previous
conduct and policy.'

   The course adopted by the Viceroy, unfortunately,
was not distinguished by the tact requisite to lead to
an amicable settlement of the diplomatic difficulties
of the situation. Lord Lytton wrote to the Amir,

announcing the despatch of a Mission from the
British Government to his Court, and requesting him
to make the necessary arrangements. The Amir,
apparently, was not altogether opposed to the idea of
receiving a British Mission, but he was offended by

the uncourteous wording of the Viceroy's letter, and
asked for time for consideration, especially as he was
then in great grief, on account of the death of his
favourite son. The Duke considered that more sym
pathy might have been shown with the Amir, as his

own account indicates :

' Her Majesty's Ministers were bound to remember
that they had themselves brought the Russian Mission
upon the Amir and upon ourselves ; and they were
equally bound to consider that Shere Ali was not
          to accept a    Mission from the Viceroy,    b"uat
refusing  the contrary,  expressing his opinion that
was, on

personal interview with a British Mission would
adjust misunderstandings." All that the Amir de
sired was that this Mission should not be forced upon
him by open violence in the sight of all his officers
and of all his people. They knew that he did not
complain of the  determination of  otfhetheInd"iabnlustGeorivnegrn"
ment to send an  Envoy, but only

messages to himself and to his officers by which he
had been incessantly plied even during his days of
grief. They knew that if ever there had been real

332         THE EASTERN QUESTION                          [chap. zu

mourning in the world, it must have been the mourn
ing of Shere Ali for Abdoolah Jan. For this boy he
had sacrificed whatever of affection and of fidelity
is possible among the children of a harem. With this

boy at his side, he had sat enthroned, as an equal,

beside the Queen's Viceroy at Umballa. For this boy
he had spent his years in endeavouring to procure a
dynastic guarantee from the Government of India.
Now all these memories and all these ambitions had
vanished like a dream. No prospect remained to
him but the hated succession of a rebellious son.'

   Lord Lytton, however, declined to hear of delay,
and the Mission left for Kabul on the 19th of
September. At an Afghan outpost in the Khyber
Pass, the officer in command was informed that the

Afghans were prepared to use force to prevent the
advance of the Mission, which was therefore obliged

to retire.

   The Viceroy then issued an ultimatum, demanding
an ample apology from the Amir, who was also in
formed that he would be required to accept the
presence of a resident British Embassy permanently

within his territory. It afterwards transpired that

the reply of the Amir had been delayed in transmission.
The Duke alludes to the contents of this reply in the

following words :*

' Well might Shere Ali say, as he did say, in his
letter of
ii., 1878,   October  "  6th    (" Afghan  Correspondence,"
            p. 18) :                       of the attack of
                         In   consequence
grief and affliction which has befallen me by the
decree of God, great distraction has seized the mind
of this supplicant at God's threshold. The trusted
officers of the British Government, therefore, ought
to have observed patience and stayed at such a time."

            * ' The Eastern Question,' vol. ii., p. 515.

1876-80]                              AFGHANISTAN                           333

Unless the Government desired to                               force a  aqu"ahrraepl,
                 o"f                                           rectify
and were glad                     an   opportunity to          there is nothing
hazard frontier                   by   means of war,

to be said in defence of the unjust and indecent haste
with which they pushed up the Mission to Ali Musjid,
even before the forty days of mourning were expired.

It cannot be pretended that there was any danger
from Russia then. In the meantime, our own position
had not long before                    ibneewnhidcehscwriebewderbey"  Lord  Lytton
himself as a position                                                       to pour
                                                                      able

an overwhelming force into Afghanistan for the vindi
cation of our own interests, long before a single Russian
soldier could reach Kabul." The haste with which
the extreme measure of war was hurried has crowned
and consummated the injustice of the previous trans
iancetivointas,blea--ndwheivcehn   if         nwota--r thhaed    been ultimately
                                  it     the                   Government can
                                       was
not escape censure for the conduct from which the

supposed necessity arose.'

   In the meantime, no reply from the Amir having

reached the Viceroy by November 30th, war was
declared by the Indian Government, and the main
posts in Afghanistan were soon in the possession of
the British forces. Shere Ali fled, and, his death

occurring early in 1879, a treaty was signed at Gan-
damak with his son Yakub, who agreed to the terms

imposed by the Government. Sir Louis Cavagnari was

placed at Kabul as British Resident in July, 1879 ;

but three months later the Residency was attacked by
a body of Afghans, and, in spite of a brave defence,
the little garrison was completely annihilated. This
outrage was promptly avenged ; Yakub was made
prisoner, and his cousin, Abdurrahman, was acknow

ledged by the Government as Amir.

   In the spring of 1879, the Duke made an important

speech in the House of Lords, condemning the foreign

334                     THE EASTERN QUESTION                   [chap. xl

policy of the Government, in the course of which he
said :

' It appears to me that we have arrived at a time
when it is possible to look back over nearly four years
of negotiations and of war, and to estimate what has
been lost and gained during that eventful time in the
political history of this country. My Lords, in com
mercial life we all know there are times when men

take stock of their proceedings. If noble Lords
                                                isllauys--traatsionperthaakpesn
Iopposite should
wcoimll --methrcaiat l     life,  object to an                                   from
                        we are     and should                                    they

                                  no longer, under their rule, a nation
of shopkeepers, but a nation of warriors, then will
say that even warriors, at the end of a campaign,
look to the roll-call of the living and the dead, and
that it is worth while to look to the history of those
four years, and to see what are the political ideas
which have perished in the conflict, and what are the
political opinions which still survive.'

   After reviewing the Eastern policy of the Govern
ment, the Duke, in allusion to a taunt of Lord Beacons-

field, who had characterized the Opposition as a
' Peace at any price party,' continued :

Iawanbilyo'l uI tbpaermimcseyhn, ooocatwknoinndngefIeotefholiotnhptghoeesewHiwtsohhhuoasrleelagrnawerohditennstfoaayIvwosaauanrry.yotshfoIipmntegeastceheteihmnaagstt
to me that on all sides there is a certain amount of
insincerity in the language too often used on this
subject. When we speak of a war which we approve,
we talk of its glories. When we speak of a war of
which we disapprove, we talk of its horrors. Can we
     ahdomneitstthawtitwharoiusr--senlvoets    on this matter
Inot be                                      seldom, but very  o?ftenCa--n

we not
by far the lesser of two evils ?                see no signs of the
millennium. Europe is ringing with the tramp of

1876-80]       lord Lawrence's views                                  335

armed men. Men of science are devoting all their
Itime to the invention of some new weapon of destruc
tion.     see no dawning of the day when nations shall

beat   pthruenirinsgw-hoordosksi.ntoWpalro--ugdhesahrareass  and their spears
into                                                         are all the lives
Iit sacrifices, many as are the hearts it breaks --war
is a necessary evil.  cdoounntorty.blaWmehattheI             Government
for having armed the
                                                             do blame it
for is for having armed it at the wrong time and in a

wrong cause.'

   In concluding the speech, the Duke summed up

his arraignment of the Government in the following
words :

' It is not we, the members of the Opposition, who
are accusing you. Time is your great accuser ; the
               is                           up
Icourse of eventsto                        shall  the case
                                                   wait to
What have you
                   susamym--ing                              ahgeaainrs--t wyhoua.t
have you to say why you should not receive an adverse
verdict at the hands of your country, as you certainly
will be called up for judgment at the bar of history ?'

   Among a number of letters received by the Duke,
on the subject of his book on the ' Eastern Question,'
was one from Lord Lawrence, who shared the Duke's

views on the Afghan question, of which he was so well

qualified to judge.

       From Lord Lawrence (17 th February, 1879).

' Many thanks for  y" oEuarslteetrtnerQouf etshteio4nt,h"    and the  copy
your work on the                                             which    duly
Iof
I Ireceived.
            delayed replying until had had read to
Ime that part of the work which related to our dealings
with Afghanistan.     think you have completely dis
Iposed of   'aclrloothkeedsppoelciicayl .
                                           pleadings  and    misrepresenta
tions 'and
                                             ...
' have seen no criticisms of your book worthy of

336              THE EASTERN QUESTION                    [chap. xli

notice. If you have not given your opponents an

absolute quietus, you have, at any rate, given them
something difficult to digest.'

Lord Dufferin, who had recently been appointed

Ambassador at St. Petersburg, wrote as follows

(March 16th, 1879) :

  I I II I' cannot

book. It is
     tell you how        glad was to receive your
     a tremendous        performance, and cannot

say how struck have been by its vigour.                  have
made it my vade-mecum.'

   In his ' Autobiography ' the Duke speaks of the re
freshment it afforded him to turn from important

matters affecting the welfare of the nation, which

required strenuous and engrossing thought, to the
restfulness of Nature; and some quotations from his

diary at this time show the pleasure and interest he

felt in the close observation of that natural world
which he described as ' a world of love, of reason, and
of law ' :*

' Argyll Lodge, April 26th, 1876. --This spring has
been a very severe one, from the frequent recurrence
of snow and great cold, with warm weather between.
In the middle of March there was a great snowstorm
in Argyllshire, and in London sleet and rain. On
the 22nd there was a heavy fall of snow in London,
and on the 13th April another very severe one all over
the middle and North of England, as well as in Scot
Iland. Yet the summer birds of passage, except the
swallows, have come as soon as usual.  saw a willow-
wren in the garden here on the 4th April, and heard
the note of the  swamryenedcakyinI  Holland Park on the same
day. On the
                                      also saw and heard the

blackcap at Richmond. On the other hand, the

     * ' Lines to Lord Lilford,1 by the Duke of Argyll.

1876-80]               ORNITHOLOGY                                  337

Iswallows are very late.      saw the first on the 18th,

Iand even now, near the end of the month, there are

very few; and have seen not one martin or sand
martin. The first cuckoo was heard at Clieveden on

the 21st.
' The little spotted woodpecker has made his appear
Iance in the garden here, and one day saw him in
Ithe act

nothing
          of producing his    poenceul"iarpecraktt"l;e.but  could see
          but the action of                                 since that
I have seen the great green woodpecker making the
Isame noise, only far louder, at Clieveden. In this case
   could see the vibratory motion of the head, corre
sponding with the vibratory character of the sound.
The bird sat on a short, dead, stumpy branch of an
oak, near its junction with the bole, and struck the
Ibranch with its bill, sitting on the top of the branch
and  not clinging to  it. do not think the action has
any  regard to the
                      capture of food. It seems to be
simply the             of     producing a    noise which is
grateful or  pleasure          is probably,   however, con
             amusing.   It
Inected with making love, as think it is only pro
Iduced at this season.        had never before heard it
Iproduced by the green woodpecker.           have this week

had an opportunity at Clieveden of studying the notes
of the nightingale, not in full song, but in the short,
conversational sort of song that is carried on in the
             The    variety   of notes  c"ihstawvraeecerty-etwrciseuteriic-otuwse"e;j,u"sbobmaleere-
daytime.            piercing
times the   long,     ending    notes,
repeated   slowly,             in the
jubble "; at other times very peculiar double notes of
extreme gentleness and liquidity are repeated in the
same way ; again, notes very like those of the common
thrush, but always with a peculiar character which is
unmistakable when one has got accustomed to the
voice. But what interested me most was the dis
             the alarm note -- a
             which never heard                   note of the
Icovery of                              warning
                                        before.  It is a harsh,
nightingale
craking note, somewhat        like  tmheuchcorlroeusdpeorn--dinsgo   note
of the whitethroat, but       very                                  much
vol. n.
                                                            22

338                          ORNITHOLOGY                                   [chap. xij

louder, indeed, that it almost suggests a sort of sup
Ipressed corncrake's note. The power of the nightin
gale    btiord,cotnhcoeuagl hitsIelkf nieswcuitriowusa.s      could not detect
the                                                       sitting close to me,
till it flitted down from a naked beech, on which it
had been uttering this craking note. Both cock and
hen then flew out of the copse, almost in my face.
The fine colour of the tail feathers was beautifully
'Iseen in the sun.
        have seen the wryneck also, uttering its very
peculiar note, which it does sitting                      oanstaemb.ougIht  like
                                                                            lifts
any other bird, and not clinging to
its head, with the bill pointing to the sky, and the
feathers of the throat are much agitated during the
em'isAsiobnlacokf ctahpe'ssonuensdt.
                                      was   found with the   hen sitting
very close two days                   ago.                   on a very
                                              It was built
exposed bough of a laurel-bush, about four feet from
the                This seems            very early.'
        ground.   --Wolf, the             German bird     -  painter,       con
     '
        May 1st.
firms my impression                      "tomtahkeingwoolodfp,"eckaenrd's   rapping
                             as                                            is never
sound. He says it            is

Ihea' rMd aeyxc1e6ptth.i--nspring     at the breeding     season.'         of the
                              saw     to-day a good       example
instinctive knowledge possessed by birds that the
slightest movement attracts the eyes, and that, con
sequently, perfect stillness is the only chance where

concealment is desired in the presence of danger. A
chaffinch has     built in               a thorn          in the garden.      On
                  to-day,             I  saw the          hen bird alight   near
approaching it
it, bringing food in her mouth, apparently a cater
pillar or two. The moment she saw me, instead of
proceeding to the nest to deliver the food, she sat
absolutely motionless, and then very slowly and im
perceptibly put herself into the attitude which made
her least visible from my point of view. This was
effected by pointing her head and bill directly down
towards me, in which position she was so foreshortened
that she appeared a mere ball or knot upon the branch.

1876-80]          ORNITHOLOGY                      339

This stillness and constraint of attitude she main
Itained for a long time, and would not for a moment

relax it until was fairly out of sight. To suppose
that the lower animals know the rationale of such
instinctive expedients is evidently absurd. But it is
not the less true that there is a rationale in them,
somewhat that cannot be explained, except in the
terms of reason   and of knowledge.
   ' Sir Kenneth  Mackenzie tells me  that  his  brother

has identified the gossander as breeding on an island
Iin a secluded lake to the north of Loch Maree ; and
  am sorry to say that in order to make sure he shot
the old bird and secured the eggs. This may possibly

Ibe the only breeding-place in Scotland, though should
hope that several of the more remote lochs in Suther
land may harbour them.
   ' Persistent and very cold east and north-easterly
winds have much checked vegetation, so that haw
thorns are not yet out, though the flower has long been
in bud. The fly-catcher has not come, and, so far as

I Ih'aSvoeonseeanf,tethr ewsrwitainllgowthtirsibepairsagurnaupshuallyobscsaerrcvee.d the
first fly-catcher in the garden, hawking for gnats from
the tops of trees, the larger flies near the ground not
yet affording, probably, sufficient numbers to supply
food.'

  I' June 14th. --When at Brighton a few days ago,
had an opportunity of seeing, on the west pier, among
a collection of birds there, a specimen of the long-eared
owl and of the carrion crow. The man who keeps the
birds seems to have a considerable knowledge of
British birds, and told me that the carrion crow always
makes its nest close to the trunk of a tree, where a
large branch joins it, and not, like the rook, among the
upper branches. He pointed out, also, as a dis
I Itinction, that the colour of the eyes is quite blue.

But think recollect that the eyes of young rooks
are also very blue. The bird, however, struck me as
longer and narrower in form than the rook. The man

                                            22--2

340           ORNITHOLOGY  [chap. xlj

farther told me that his father, who was a dealer in
birds, recollects the buzzard as by no means uncommon
in Sussex, where it is now very rarely seen, and that
he recollected having found its nest and taken its eggs
from whin, or gorse, bushes on the Downs. This is
certainly a singular place for such a large and con
               bird to have built in, within so recent times.
spi'cTuhoues  long-eared owl is a very beautiful little bird,
much smaller than the ivy owl. The man says it is
not very rare in Sussex. The eyes are of a beautiful

Jgol'deunneye2l2lonwd..'--For many years a pair or two of reed
wrens have built in the garden of Argyll Lodge, and
towards midsummer the continuous song of this little
bird is very pleasant. On one occasion the nest was
built in a lilac-bush, which was then enough in foliage
Ito allow a window into the leafy shade in which the

nest was placed ; and was surprised to see that the
cock bird, after the young were hatched, and in the
process of feeding them, used to sit on the edge of the
nest, with his head downward among the young, and

pour out his song, as it were, in their ears. Generally
singing-birds cease singing altogether after the hen
has hatched the young, and they hardly ever sing in
close proximity to the nest, probably from an instinc
Itive fear lest its whereabouts should be thus betrayed.
   ' Last night heard and saw the reed wren singing
beautifully about nine o'clock at night, and beating
time to his own music with a fluttering motion of his
wings. The action was very pretty, and the song
was modulated into a low and pleasant warble, in
harmony with the faint light of a warm midsummer
Inight.'
                                                find
   ' Inveraray, July 2nd. -- On arriving here,
that a young gull which we took in July, 1874, from
the nests near Lismore is only now assuming enough

of the mature plumage to make it certain that it is
the herring-gull, and not the smaller black-backed
gull. The grey feathers on the back have not yet

1876-80]         FIRE AT INVERARAY                      341

entirely replaced the spotted feathers of the immature
            The   bill is    still horn-coloured, with    no
plumage.     of  yellow                                 that
appearance                 or red. It thus appears
gulls do not assume the adult plumage until after they
are fully two years old.'

    On the 12th of October, 1877, a fire broke out at

Inveraray Castle at five o'clock in the morning. The

previous night had been stormy, and a yachtsman
who was attending to the moorings of the Duke's
yacht saw that the central tower of the castle was on
fire, and roused the inmates. The Duke was at

Inveraray at the time, with his family and several
friends, but everyone in the castle was saved. The
fire was confined to the central part of the building,
which was entirely destroyed, but, with the excep
tion of one or two valuable pictures, no loss of im
portance was incurred. The Duke described the
accident in a letter to Professor Tyndall :

   ' My dear Professor Tyndall,

       I' The late fire at Inveraray was attended with

circumstances which are curious, and wish to con
sult your opinion on the explanation which suggests
itself to me.

    ' The house had a great central hall, 80 feet high,
with two side halls, opening into the central one by
doors, and arches perforated in the solid dividing
walls. . . . From the centre of each roof (three in
number) there was a long perpendicular brass tube,
ending in large gaseliers for the lighting of the halls.
Now, the fire, when first seen from the floor of the
hall, seemed to be in a ring round the point of inser
tion of the great gas-pipe in the centre of the roof. . . .

    ' The night was stormy, and the atmosphere had
been all evening highly electric. Brilliant flashes of
lightning were seen about 7 p.m., and some thunder
was heard.

342                      ORNITHOLOGY                    [chap. xli

   ' The operating clerk at the telegraph-office received

a considerable shock during the evening. At 11.30
my medical man had passed through the hall, when
I Iall
    '
     was right, so far   as  visible.
     Some time after          had fallen
                                          asleep  (how  long
can't tell, for one can never be sure how long one has
Ibeen asleep) was awoke by some very loud crash,
IsI"ohWelohauarddt
     and startling that sat up and exclaimed,
     on earth is that noise ?" When fully awake,
     that the crash was followed by a loud rattling,
Ias if the shutters had been violently and persistently

shaken. But the noise soon passed away, and as
knew it blew hard and was very gusty, I, unfortunately,
concluded that the noise was due only to a violent
Isquall. My impression was, and still is, that this

happened about an hour or an hour and a half after
had first fallen asleep. That would make it about

1.30 a.m.
I' Now, the fire was seen blazing at the top of the
castle at 5 a.m.             was roused about 5.15, and in

another ten minutes the great gas-pipe and gaselier
had fallen in with a perfect avalanche of fire upon the
floor of the hall, and the flames were rising high above
the roof.

   ' My opinion is that lightning had struck the gas-
pipe at the top of the hall, that at the same moment it
injured the pipe and lit the gas, and that the main
body of the electric discharge was carried off by the
external gas-pipe as a conductor to the ground. . . .
   ' The crash  ads idI           several people, but they
attributed it,           awake    an unusual gust of wind.
                         did, to
My impression, therefore, is that the electric discharge
was not of a powerful kind, but that it was something
of the nature of those fire-balls and other electric appear
ances which were noticed the same night near London.
   ' Do the facts above described enable you to form
Iany opinion as to the probability of my theory ?

Does lightning ever behave or produce the effects
have supposed ?'



1876-80]         FIRE AT INVERARAY                          343

   In his reply Professor Tyndall stated that the

Duke was in all probability right in attributing the
cause of the fire to a discharge of electricity, which
might have proceeded from a cloud hovering over the
central part of the castle.

   The Duke wrote to Mr. Gladstone a little later as

follows :

' The fire sometimes comes back upon me as a horrid
nightmare, because there is a wonderful chasm between
the actual result and that which might have been the
result. We were all sleeping soundly, with a raging
fire in the midst of us, going on for hours ; and if the
alarm had come twenty minutes later, the lives of
many must have been lost. Not many minutes after
the girls escaped, the galleries of the hall fell in, and
if that had happened before they left their rooms all
escape would have been cut off except by the win
          and,   [awlhluodiwngereto'                    in
           time
dows,

'Iat the
                                      several people        the castle
                                      very helpless ']      don't see
how they could have been got out by ladders. So that
really the escape of all was a very merciful providence.'

   After the fire, the Duke removed with his family
to Rosneath, Dumbartonshire, while Inveraray Castle
was being restored. Early the following year, he went
to London to attend the meeting of Parliament, and,

with the exception of a few brief visits to the country,
he remained in town until the end of May.

   For some years the Duke's life had been over
shadowed by anxiety regarding the health of the

Duchess, which had become very precarious since

the serious attack of illness from which she had
suffered in 1869. But the blow fell at last with

overwhelming suddenness, on the 25th May, 1878,
when the Duchess passed away, while with the Duke
at the house of Lord Frederick Cavendish.

             ORNITHOLOGY                       iu[chap.

   In November of this year the Duke went with his

family to Cannes, where he had taken a villa for some
months. He remained there until the month of April,
when he returned to London, and on the 23rd of May
he crossed the Atlantic to visit the Marquis of Lome,

who had been appointed Governor-General of Canada
the previous year. The Duke also made a short
tour in the United States. On his return, after an

absence of some weeks, he wrote to Mr. Gladstone

(August 27th, 1879) :

I I' was very glad to get your letter.      had intended
Ito write to you long ago, but hardly know where to
I Ibegin.
           was delighted with all saw in the New
I IWorld, differing as it did in many ways from any
expectation  had formed of it. Of course, speak
Ionly of the aspects of the country, with all that can

be gathered from them, for had little time to see
Ipeople, and none at all to see the working of institu

tions. The face of Nature is the only face could
study, but that was enough to engross all my atten
Ition.

   ' did see Longfellow, and had a delightful dinner
with him. He lives in an old wooden house, which
was Washington's headquarters for nine months at

the outbreak of the Revolutionary War, and it is
Iwholly unaltered. Longfellow was very well, and as

charming as ever. have always thought his counte
nance such a beautiful one.

*****
I' was made ill by the fearful heat of New York,
Iwhere the thermometer was 100 in the shade during
two days was in it.
As to home politics,
the                   .      ..

  I'                          have  missed  a  great  deal.
IBut what did see and hear has not put me in good
Ispirits.    do not think the Liberal party has been
Isnowing to advantage.       am glad to hear you say

1876-80]  VISIT TO AMERICA                         345

                                                   I confess

                                                   We shall
Iwill follow nobody on this, or on many other subjects,saBy,ut"

*****on which am not disposed to the new Radical schools.
that Disestablishment   is in abeyance.
                         lead, and not
I think leaders should
Isteer according to the wind." For my own part,

' If we are at Inveraray in November, as probably
I ... Iwe may be, and if you don't dread our damp climate,
hope you will come.     return to Rosneath on

the 2nd September to move the family to Inveraray,
Iwhich hitherto has not been ready for us.         think

the outside immensely improved.'

CHAPTER XLII

1880-81

THE IRISH LAND BILL

In March, 1880, a change of Government took place,

the Liberal party having been returned to power by a
large majority at the General Election. The question
of the moment was whether Her Majesty would send
for the official Liberal leaders, Lord Granville and
Lord Hartington, or for Mr. Gladstone, to whom the
victory was mainly due. The Duke anticipated that
his personal friend and connection, Lord Granville,

would be entrusted by the Queen with the formation
of the new Administration, and he would have wel

comed a Granville Ministry, as his experience of the
1868-1874 Government had caused him to fear that

Mr. Gladstone would be forced into immoderate con

cessions to the Radicals. A passage in a letter
(January 13th, 1880) to Lord Dufferin, written before

the Election, shows the Duke's anxiety on the subject,

though he repudiates any idea of a capitulation to the
Parnellites :

I I' Of course agree with you about Ireland, but
have not yet seen any symptoms   of the Liberal  leaders
                                                    shall
                                If they do so,
I IppaatrttincgomPpaarnnyel--l wonhicthhe,
back.                           am not unlikely to
indeed,
Ido
Ithe
on other questions.        do  nbeo--t knmoweanh, ohwowsedreioeups-
present state of things  may
seated the disaffection is. But when men are incited

                         346

1880]  LIBERAL PROGRAMME                            347

to believe that they may take the property of others
as their own, the doctrine is not unlikely to be widely
accepted. What a curious wave of opinion seems to
be passing all over the world on this subject !'

   After the result of the elections had become known,
Mr. Gladstone and Lord Granville communicated with
the Duke. Mr. Gladstone's letter (April 12th, 1880)
was on the subject of the future policy of the Govern
ment :

   ' In respect to domestic legislation, the proceedings

of the expiring Government have left the ground more
open and easy, as there can only be a short session.
The most complicated of the questions now more
or less embodied in the Liberal programme, such as

Ilocal government and the suffrage, with redistribution

of seats, will, should suppose, have to stand over.
But the distressed condition of agriculture, and the
return of new representatives of the tenant farmers,

Iwill press on the questions relating to land. Indi

vidually, have been led to the abandonment in
principle of entail and settlement affecting the corpus
of the property (as distinct from powers of charge)

Imore by moral and social than by political, or even

economical, considerations. But should think this
question manageable in extent, and if manageable,
then hard and impossible to exclude from the first
programme of a new Liberal Government.'

   Lord Granville (April 5th, 1880) inquired as to the
Duke's choice of office :

' You must be as surprised as we are at this wonder
ful spring tide, although you have been one of the
I I Ipri'ncipkanlowmowtivhea-tpowesrhso. uld do if
                                                    were the Queen.
I IBut, unfortunately, am not on the throne, and
have not seen my idea suggested by anyone.

348       THE IRISH LAND BILL             [chap. xlii

' But it is probable that, in case of a normal Liberal
I IGovernment being formed, shall be consulted as to
the members of it in the House of Lords.  can write
Ito you as could to no one but my brother, and as you
Iare not certain to be back yet, shall be glad if you
will tell me in perfect confidence, and without prejudice,
whether you would prefer a hard-working or an easy

office.'

    On the 22nd of April the Queen sent for Lord
Hartington, the leader of the Liberal party in the
House of Commons, and the following day both Lord
Granville, who was Liberal leader in the House of
Lords, and Lord Hartington were received in audience
by Her Majesty. The Queen had desired that Lord
Hartington should form a Ministry, but it was under

stood that Mr. Gladstone would not accept office except
as Prime Minister ; and, in the opinion of Lord Gran

ville and Lord Hartington, it was impossible that a

strong Government could be formed which did not

include the former Liberal Prime Minister. They

therefore advised that the Queen should send for
Mr. Gladstone, who proceeded to Windsor the same

day to receive Her Majesty's commands.

   In Mr. Gladstone's new Administration the Duke
accepted office as Lord Privy Seal, Lord Granville
being Foreign Secretary, and Lord Hartington Secre

tary for India. Mr. Gladstone himself undertook the

office of Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Duke,

who was all his life a worker, would have preferred an
office where his energies would have had fuller scope,
but in this matter he left himself in the hands of the
Prime Minister, as the following letter to Lord Dufferin

shows :

I I' Long before you get this you will have heard the
results. But do not yet know them.        have left

1880J COMPENSATION FOB DISTURBANCE                     349

myself very much in Gladstone's hands. He has many
difficulties, although with almost supreme power
so far as popular enthusiasm and authority are con

Icerned. But there are a great many self-assertors to

be dealt with, and do not desire to be among them.
Both Granville and Hartington have behaved very
well, and with a great want of self-assertion.'

   Irish questions practically engrossed the attention
of Government during the early years of the Ad
ministration, and soon after the meeting of the new

Parliament a measure was introduced dealing with
evictions, which was known as the Disturbances

Act. One of the provisions of this Act was to the
effect that the clause in the Land Act of 1870, under

which no tenant evicted for non-payment of rent was
entitled to compensation, should be modified under

certain circumstances, such as agricultural distress.

It was proposed to refer the question of compensa

tion to the judgment of the County Court. To many

members of the Government this was merely a fore
shadowing of what was to come. Lord Lansdowne,
who was Under-Secretary for India, went so far as to

resign, and a good deal of active persuasion was needed
to prevent the Duke from casting discredit on the
Government by leaving it. He actually sent in his
resignation in a letter to Mr. Gladstone (June 14th,

1880) :

  I' am very sorry to say that the result of my
Ireflection is that cannot accept any share in the
responsibility of recommending to Parliament the
         decided upon by the Cabinet on Saturday.
measure

  I' am
Iquestion
          not going   tIot  trouble you by arguing      the
         over again.        is sufficient for me that  find
myself in the position of being wholly unable to defend
the proposal of the Government with a good conscience.

350                  THE IRISH LAND BILL                     [chap. xiji

Both as to time and as to substance, it seems to me
I Iope' n
     to objections so grave that cannot face them.           of
     cannot defend any disturbance of the Land Act
1870 made suddenly on the summons of Mr. O'Connor

Power, when it is notorious that we had determined
not to deal with the subject during this session.

  I' cannot argue that the particular interference

Iproposed with that Act is a just one in itself.
cannot argue that there is any justice in treating as a
capricious eviction an eviction for the non-payment of

Irent.

  ' cannot argue that it is just to place in the hands
of a legal court the power of compelling an owner to
pay a fine of from five to seven years' rent to a tenant
Iwhom he may be compelled to remove for insolvency.
   ' cannot pretend that the limitation of the measure
to two years' duration is otherwise than illusory. Such
                         is not likely  to be easily retraced.
s'tNepeiothnecer  taken   argue that    the limitation to cases
                  can
Ia
where insolvency has arisen from one particular cause,
even if that could be ascertained, is a limitation which

Ican be maintained.
   ' cannot argue that the adoption of such a measure,
preceding the issue of a commission, can fail to fore
judge a question of the gravest kind in point of

Iprinciple.
   ' cannot deny that the measure looks in the direc
tion of (what is called) extending the Ulster custom
to the whole of Ireland. That is to say, because we have

secured certain advantages to men who had acquired
them by purchase or inheritance, we contemplate giving
them to other men who have never had them either by
Ipur' chacsaennoort  by inheritance.
                      deny that so    sudden  a  resolution  on the

part of the Government, in the face of an anti-rent
agitation in Ireland, will give the impression of weak
ness and irresolution in the defence of even the most

equitable laws.

   ' These are but specimens of the insuperable diffi

1880J                 PURCHASE CLAUSES                                351

I Iculties under which find myself when think of what
I Ican and what cannot say upon the decision of the
ICa'bUinnedt.er these circumstances,
                                                        feel that I have no
Ichoice. must ask you to place my resignation in the
I Ihands of the Queen.
                                      hope need not tell you what
Ithis determination has cost me. Nothing but the

absolute necessity under which find myself could have
Iind'ucesdhomueld  to come to         it.
                     be glad          that  you  should          allow my col

leagues to see this letter.'

   This protest brought from Mr. Gladstone two letters,
which are quoted here.

           From Mr. Gladstone {June l±th, 1880).

  I' While do not presume to measure beforehand the
Ieffect on your mind of any considerations can offer,

I Ithink may fairly ask you not at this moment to
Igive to your letter the rigidity of a final announcement.

   ' ask you also to consider them in the spirit of
candour which you would undoubtedly exhibit on
almost every political subject.
   ' Would it be quite
                                      eqthuaittab"leit  to  press against the
Cabinet the proposition                                 is  notorious that we

Ihad   pdreesteernmt isneesdsionno"t   to deal with the subject during
         aver that the
the                                   ?

     '                                only subject we had determined
was not to deal with the purchase clauses of the Irish
Land Act. We never considered the question of
ejectments connected with the present distress in
Ireland.
   ' For myself,   I  can             most  strictly        say  the  proposal  of

O'Connor Power has had no other effect than to draw
Imy attention to a question which, like many other

questions with strong claims, had not considered,
Iand had had no time to consider.
   ' must also say of that question that the evidence
in regard to it grows and varies from day to day.

352                     THE IRISH LAND BILL                                                       [chap. xlii

  I I' was under the impression that ejectments were

diminishing, but now find from figures first seen on
ISaturday that they seem rather to increase.                                                            find
also that they are attempted
   ' This state of facts entails                                       ownhomlees--alea.nd  sIatmheinkthmingan--y

colleagues might be          dwishpeoreseId                             to say the
the duty of inquiring                                                  had not previously known
Ithere was urgent cause to inquire.

   ' On inquiry, find reason to believe that many
ejectments are on account of an inability to pay rent,
caused wholly by destitution, and that destitution due
Ito the circumstances of the last harvest.

   ' Thereupon have to ask myself a twofold question :

   ' 1. In a country where we have numbers of
occupiers living strictly from hand to mouth, and
where the harvest has in certain districts been so

destroyed as to cause frequently an absolute though
temporary destitution, is it quite just that, on an
ejectment served for not paying that which the man
could not pay, he should forfeit entirely the little
estate or interest in the land which was created for
him by us under the Land Act of 1870 under the
name of compensation for disturbance ?

   2. Is the adoption of such an extreme proposition
consistent in spirit on the part of those who in 1870
admitted       that for tenancies under £15 then                                                  existing
the fact       of ' exorbitant ' rent, without any                                                 distinct

condition of inability to pay, should operate to prevent
the destruction of the principle of disturbance in cases
of  'eqMjueeycstmtaionensnwt 2e,fro"rtoNnooq,nu-eiptsatiyisomnneon1tt
to                                                                        ?  "  No,  it  is  not  just  "  ;

                                                                       is,

                                                                       consistent."
    I I' Then put question 3 : Am to shrink from doing
I Iwhat is  just
            that
be told
                  aIndamcodnosiinsgtenitt  because, as admit, shall
Power                                      at the bidding of O'Connor

  ' It   ?  a    sound  and  just          rule                        that we       should       discard

        is

the     fear of  being thought afraid.                                          is a casus   omissus    in
                  perhaps, be said this
     '  It may,

1880]    THE DUKE'S PROPOSED RESIGNATION             353

Ithe Land Act.  seriously think it is less in dis
paragement of the ordinary rules of property than
Iwhat we did in the Land Act.

   ' have lost no time in writing. Pray let me see
you to ascertain the exact amount and breadth of
any difference between us.'

          From Mr. Gladstone {June 15th, 1880).

             *****
   ' Believe me, there is not any need for your assur
ances as to your feelings in this critical affair ; they
speak for themselves. No one who knows you can

mistake or undervalue them, true though it may be,

Ias to myself, that under the ruthless pressure of hourly

business may seem to force my way through it all with
a stony indifference. Nothing can alter my feeling of
gratitude.'

The Duke's letter was shown, as he had requested,

to his colleagues, and drew from Lord Granville the

following letter (June 14th, 1880) :

I' Your note filled me with dismay.   saw Gladstone,
IHartington, and Spencer on the subject of it.       try
to put aside my feelings of regret at losing you as a
colleague, and at missing your counsel about foreign
affairs, and your support in defending our policy in
the Lords.   But it appears to  gmreeatth--atto
bility you  are taking is very                   the responsi
                                                  aim such a
blow so soon at Gladstone's Government, to give such
a triumph to the Tories, and to give such a stimulus
to the House of Lords to put themselves in collision
Iwith the House of Commons, with all the results that
may happen in Ireland.       do not go into the merits
of the question. There is much to be said on both
sides ; many of your arguments are logically excellent.
But even from that point of view, by going away are
you strengthening the principles which you desire to
vol. n.
                                                 23

354             THE IRISH LAND BILL     [chap. xlii

maintain ?  Are you not  playing  EtahestegranmeQulieksetioCn a--r
narvon did  with regard  to the

weakening Derby and leaving the field more open for
those who have the most extreme objects in view ?
Gladstone will be most anxious to meet you, but do
not press him too far.'

  It was no doubt partly due to Lord Granville's

warning against throwing their chief into the hands of

the extremists that the Duke consented to reconsider

his determination to leave the Cabinet. In a letter
to Lord Dufferin he wrote :

I I IWh' atseIethatin
     may    do  resisting shall ultimately stand  alone.
                under those conditions do not     know.
I Iwish and long to be out, but have to consider the
political position and the certainty that Gladstone
may be driven to extremes.'

                  To Lord Dufferin.
I Iene' myd,obnuot tI
            care  how much    fighting     have with the
            hate  having to  squabble   with colleagues.'

   In the end the resignation was withdrawn, and

certain amendments were made in the measure, but the

Disturbances Bill was decisively rejected by the House

of Lords (August 3rd, 1880).
   Mr. Gladstone was of opinion that this rejection

changed the situation in Ireland irretrievably for the
worse, and, together with the hard winter of 1880-1881,

made a Land Bill inevitable. To his expression of

this belief the Duke made the following rejoinder
(November 3rd, 1880) :

   ' A Government which has failed to carry any par

Iticular measure is under great temptation to ascribe

all the evils of humanity to its loss. But fail to see

1880]           OWNERSHIP AND OCCUPANCY                             355

what harm the loss of the Disturbance Bill has done,
exc' eTphtetoBgiilvl e  room for abuse      of the Lords.
                        was to check        unreasonable   evictions.
Forster says that none such have been going on. But
            dBriBilflitlewl dans"elcoiesnstt,soaervythe--ne wpwhohesyni,tiiotnwnaoesfvoecnrontschioeduelsrdtinogcskesea,,
Ibweefohreadthe"

new Land
always excepting any measure to extend ownership.
But the plan now is to destroy ownership, and con
found it more and more with occupancy, a drift which

I think purely mischievous.
  I' am open to conviction as the result of inquiry,

Ibut see no sense in a foregone conclusion that because
Parnell has opened a campaign for separation and
dismemberment of             the Empire, therefore              sh"ouolldd
confess our own              work of 1870 to be            we
almanack." '                                                an

   For the next few months, the forthcoming Land Bill
was the subject which most engaged the attention of
Ministers. During this period the Duke wrote fre
quently to Mr. Gladstone, and their correspondence
gives a fair history of the formation of the measure.
Most of the letters, however, are concerned with

details, many of which did not appear in the final
result. Out of a large number of letters, only those are
selected which express the Duke's views most syste

matically or throw light on the Bill itself.

       From Mr. Gladstone {November 2§th, 1880).

' 1. What objections are there to free sale, or to
sale by Irish tenants of their interest in their occupa
tions
          ?     we      not  .  .  .  give  to  the Irish occupier  an
    ' 2.
           Can
increased security of tenure, and yet avoid the mischief
of a recurrent State interference for the determination

of rents ?

                                                           23--2

356                   THE IRISH LAND BILL                          [chap. xiji

   ' 3. Must we not again get a fixed starting-point by
an interference once for all, and may we not build
this interference upon a renewal and some extension

Iof the clause in the Land Act about exorbitant rents ?

   ' The state of Ireland is so serious that do not
Iknow what form our deliberations may take ; but for

my own part am very desirous to keep, if possible,

Ion the lines and basis of the Land Act.
ifcsihrse'ntc,IoktwatnwhdLeaosnIa, grsbfihietolrtduahl'ridsnykil,deikexeeoar.rcingiosieInwaoaltfllyowpaomyCwsaaekrrleliinkbgeiytfdoforidixut'irsnfgrbioadimste.ias,thtaIotes
the mildest form in which we can have a medium of

suf'fiFcrieonmt  strength.  of  view,  I       do  not  see  much  difficulty
                 my point
in drawing preliminary resolutions, and they may be
very useful in giving us time, which cannot fail to be
greatly needed.
* One of my chief alarms is a seriously divided
ICommission.          did not think Forster dreaded it as
Imuch as do.
' Be this as it may, land is my great anxiety. The
disturbances are temporary, but in this we ought at
least to aim in good faith at permanence.'

To this the Duke replied on the following day :

I ' I am very busy reading the evidence. Meanwhile

  r'e1p.ly" tForeyeousarlequ"ebsytiotnesn.ants is sale of what is not their
own. In Ulster there are always limitations. These
limitations have the aim and effect of keeping up the
right of the owner to reasonable increments of rent
on fit occasions.
' You have boasted that the Land Bill of 1870 has
not prevented such reasonable increments being
realized.        Yet  now   t"hfisailveedr.y"  fact is  quoted as showing
that the         Act  has                         Mr.   C. Russell quotes
cases to show that some increments have been un

1880]              CRITICISM OF THE BILL                              357

reasonable. But his facts do not bear out the allega
tion.

   ' At all events, unlimited sale and unrestricted
competition prices for goodwill do, and must, tend to
eat    Iutpisalal  right to  increment of rent.
                   transfer   to ownership and   the                  reduction  of
    '

owners to rent-chargers. Of course, when sale is
allowed by owners and regulated by them, it is com
patible with periodical revisions of rent. This is Lord
Portsmouth's case. But if allowed, or rather bestowed

Iob"nyfe're2soe.tfaTtstuhhateleee,.""prittihnrcecioephualeFlvd'eso.nf"thotethebsetLraornnegdgeusAltactetodbo.jef c1tIi8ot7n0sw, ottuholadtthboiesf
fdinisecouunradgeirngtheanndamceheocfki"ngdisetuvircbtaionncse,"byis
                                                                      imposing   a
                                                                      of course  a

principle which could be carried further.
 But, on            the other  hand, if   it be carried so far
practically        to render               of rent impossible,                   as
                               revisions
                                                                                 it
would be a complete departure from the aim and object
of the Act. This is one of the cases in which the
principle lies as much in the limitation put on it as in
                   idea involved.
the    general      extension of   the  clause   about                exorbitant
       3. Some
    '

Irents is certainly within the principle of the Act, and

  am not at all prepared to say that the extension may
not be reasonably proposed. But the mischief is that
Ithe legislation aims at something wholly different, and

   doubt now whether any measure which is not revo
lutionary will be accepted by the tenants under the
excitement into which they have been thrown.
   ' Speeches like Bright' s have done great harm. They
raise vague expectations, and imply statements as to

Iexisting facts which are not true. As far as have gone,
the evidence does not prove that increments have been
arbitrarily made ; on the contrary, the evidence is the

oth'eDrowwasey. clearly holds that ownership consists in the
receipt of a rent-charge. Moreover, he lays down the

358               THE IRISH LAND BILL                                   [chap. xlii

wonderful doctrine that what we have to do is to satisfy
the existing occupiers, and never mind the interests of
the people who may wish to become occupiers in the
Ifuture. A most                          doctrine truly.
                  convenient             into some more     systematic
   ' hope to put  my notions
form soon. But one must, at least one ought, to

read the evidence. As regards the opinions mooted, it
is pretty      nfeeaaturlryesc. haoIts.    And this is  one of the most
alarming                                 is a complete  unsettlement of
Iall fundamental ideas
    '    like Abercorn's  of property.             that     the         purchase
                            suggestion
Ipcleatuusiteies s.shou"ldFixbee d e"xtentedneudresto                      of
                                                   the  pu"rcfihxaesde  "       per
                                                   and                         rents

when bought are at least not confiscation.                                 see no
objection to them. The tenants of Ireland (except
the cottiers) are quite able to buy what they want to
get. Let them buy it.'

       From Mr. Gladstone {December 3rd, 1880).

  ' I agree very much in your objections to free sale

as you understand it. But by free sale may be under
rsseotoflevoredrdesdaisle,toCnao"nt frsteuhebejresecatleb,teooavretfsorae. lee--."Thi.eerT.e,hfoenroenq,-upemesrtymioiqnsusieotsontiob--ne

Isale such as shall not encroach on the property of

the landlord ? am inclined to think there can, and to

Ifind the means of it in the Longfield idea.
    ' am working constantly on this subject, and, un
fortunately, there is a great deal to read besides

the evidence upon the Commission.
   ' What we really want is to get below generalities,
Iand to touch the testing points and forms of the
question. For this purpose                         put challenging pro

Ipos' iFtioonr se. xample, am disposed to hold the following
proposition, to which we made approaches in the Land
Act    "anInd  in the debates            on it :
               a country like                      in many  parts       of which
    '                                    Ireland,

1880J           OWNERS AND OCCUPIERS                               359

employments are so little diversified as not to
leave a real freedom of choice, the occupation of
land upon living terms is itself money's worth, and is
also money's worth of a kind that ought not to be
inrep'rPesreanytetdurnin
                the  rent."  your mind.'
               this  over

       To Mr. Gladstone {December 6th, 1880).
  I I' confess
                 have the    g--retahtaetst  "  difficulty in   under
standing your   proposition                     occupation     of land

in Ireland is money's worth."

   ' To whom ? Of course it is money's worth to the
occupier. But unless he pays rent it would not be
             worth to the owner.
mo'nYeoyu's  surely don't mean    to  affirm    that  all          Irish
occupiers have a right to live rent free. It seems to
me that a great deal too much is made of the
               of Ireland.      The   inHtighehmla,ndasnd^rhaavilewanyos
peculiarities   and no big   towns
manufactures
now afford egress and access to all classes to the general
labour markets of the kingdom.'

         To Mr. Gladstone [December 1th, 1880).

  I I II' have been pondering over your proposition.

fear am very stupid, for really cannot understand

Iits terms, unless, indeed, it have a meaning which can
Ihardly believe you entertain.
                                      can put on it is one
   ' The only interpretation
which would tend to encourage and perpetuate a
Itceort'pt"ireeTrthpteoopoumclceauatpinoant"ioononn
                     the verge of pauperism.                   "     in
                     of land on living terms                       bare
                      terms which afford only                   a

living." Then follows the proposition respecting such
occupiers, that they should be charged nothing for rent.

   ' Of course, if this doctrine is established it will give
a new lease of life to the semi-pauper cottiers, a new
premium on all the lowest standards of living, which
are the curse of such a population. They would breed

360             THE IRISH LAND BILL                 [chap. xm

and feed upon potatoes until not even a bare living

Iremained.
   ' hold, on the contrary, that no occupation of land
ought to be encouraged which does not afford a surplus
for rent over and above a decent and comfortable
livelihood. So much for policy, but now as regards
justice to the owners of land. Take the case of
Carraroe. The rent paid by these poor people averaged
only 30s. a head.
   ' For this they had land enough to grow plenty of
potatoes, besides a not inconsiderable flock of sheep

and cattle.
   ' Every artisan in England and Scotland, every work

man even, pays more for the rent of perhaps one or
two rooms, which simply affords shelter, but no food
or clothing. The Irish cottier has for his 30s. plenty
of the food he is accustomed to, as well as some

saleable articles.

   ' He goes habitually to England to earn wages. Why
should such a cottier be pitied for paying 30s. for a
home, and for   at least a
                 dispute    tolerable supply  of food ?            --if
  I' therefore              the proposition   altogether
I I Iunderstand it, which, however,
  I' Pray do not trouble to reply ;
                            suspect do              not.
                              only write            to tell
Iyou what occurs to me. Why on earth should wish
landowners    not to pay     income-tax   on their  actual
            is monstrous    and absurd   that they  should
rent ? It
pay only on Griffith's valuation when they often get
easily three  or four    tiamepsretmhiautmvaolunat"ioinn.crements
   ' This of  itself is                                            "  of

rent, which may be perfectly legitimate, but surely
ought not to be specially exempted from taxation.
This is a by-point, but not wholly unimportant.'

   The following letter (December 15th, 1880) to Mr.

Gladstone deals with the principle of the Bill :

  I' write one line to prevent a misunderstanding

Iwhich might arise. When first read your memo

1880]        OCCUPANCY AND ' LIVING TERMS '                                                                                                 361

Irandum in the Cabinet-room saw that in its general
aim and tenor it was adverse to revolutionary changes,
and in favour of keeping within the main lines and
intentions of the Act, or, at least, of the Bill, of 1870.
I I' Seeing this, said at once to you that agreed with
IiaF"tn'.sry'igM"Bho--yftunttiaohmmfepear"delsyisstd,hsigironen"nmeoftreFehnu'eatsnsds""aealrlcetwsah.t"araerynriseeds   that under    the  "wtohrrdese
                                                                                                                        lay one of   the

                                                                                                                        been, and still is, that
                                                                                                                         or will carry the other
two. An abstract resolution, therefore, which affirms
that it is desirable to give free sale to all tenants in
Ireland, even below a certain value, is in my mind a
most formidable proposition. At all events, it is one
entirely outside both of the Bill and of the Act of

"18d7' is0At.surbaanncaelte"rniat tiwveoutlod  landlords for the penalties of
                                               take a subordinate place, but
as one of a few abstract propositions on what is
desirable it seems to me to be open to very formidable
objection.'

       To Mr. Gladstone {December 2Mh, 1880).

I' wish only to write a line on the definition of
principle on which you have based a general recog
nition of a right of sale. At a time when a chaos
of opinion is one of the main evils to be dealt with, such
Idreef'lianTnihtdieonsshuopuoslfhdoptnrienovcfeipryleboeuarlsestpumaritnec"iupfnuleullssuleaislttiintmhgpaovtratalfuanercm,e".s
                                                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                            but
should always be so let as to afford a fine, or a saleable
interest, over and above the ordinary profits of occu
pat'ioTnh.is result is reached through the argument that

occupancy "on living terms" ought not to be repre
sented in the rent.
  I' Surely

Who is to
       dtehfiisneis"  an argument              "of                                                                      indefinite elasticity.
                      living terms                  ?
                                                                                                                            suppose it means

362               THE IRISH LAND BILL                                 [chap. xlii

" terms that will afford a livelihood." But what kind
of livelihood ? Is it to be the bare life supported
on potatoes and salt herring ? Or is it the livelihood
that will afford a much higher standard of living ?
--Oraisliivte, lsihtiollofdurtthhaetr,  what one of                   demands
                                        will afford a  the witnesses  and sub
                                                        comfortable

stantial income out of which sons can be provided for

and daughters portioned ? A principle of this kind,
once sanctioned and definitely formulated, will have a
great chance of being followed to its logical conse
quences. The      Land Act               of 1870                  itself on
very different    principle --          namely,         founded  a matter     a
                                                       that, as              of

fact, the right of sale had been extensively acquired
in Ireland by purchase or some other form of legitimate
expectation, that it was to be recognised as a fact, and
Ishould be extinguished where it had been bought up
and paid off.     need not say that the introduction of
it where it has never existed as in itself a good thing is
the antithesis of the principle of the Act of 1870.'

       From Mr. Gladstone {December 25th, 1880).

I I' Though God knows have little time for writing,
Imust not leave you under a grievous misunderstanding
wh'ic"hLivhinadg  hoped  "toaraevsouidr.ely  terms     on which a tenant
                  terms
can live ; and those in Ireland have been and are largely
worth paying for, and in not a few cases they have been
unduly paid for in rent ; and they, with improvements,
Iconstitute an interest ; and this interest is a fair

subject of sale, and its assignment was, believe,
allowed (it did not require to be enacted) by the Land
Bill    as we   adopted and introduced it.
       This is  quite apart from customs and           from           customs
    '

Ib"ofu'uMgllhylteutdtpoin.cgtrivnaeludeo."es not in the least interfere  with

   ' Pray read an article by Trevelyan which                             have

asked Knowles to send you in proof.

1881]      INTERFERENCE WITH CONTRACT                   363

I' wish there were more men in the Cabinet who had
Itrie' d  to read up the history  of Irish tenures.
          meant to have begun     with wishing you   a  happy

Christmas                Minister can at this time send Minister
          a

                    (if
such      message of peace) let me end with it.
                                   Affectionately yours,
                                             W. E. Gladstone.'
                            '

                                   ;
                                               '

     P.S. --Rely upon it, in the matter of land the
real question not whether there shall be less than
propose, but whether there shall be more.'
'                                                               I

                    is

   On January 5th, 1881, Lord Dufferin wrote to the
Duke

    All of us landlords, and may say everyone who

holds shilling of property, whether in land or in the
funds, ought to present you with a crown of gold
for the vigorous stand you are making against such
tremendous odds.'
'
       a:

                          I

' 'IDuring the Christmas recess the Duke had been:
giving close attention to the Bill, and on January 28th
   ahe wrote to his chief         I

I'      have been trying during the last week to put my
thoughts in order as well as could on your outline of
'a Land Bill.

     Two great provisions stand out conspicuously --I
(1) court with authority to review and revise and
determine existing rents, and (2) an absolute and
universal prohibition for the future against too frequent
increments of rent.

         need not say that both of these provisions are
interferences with contract which were never contem
plated in the Land Act of 1870, and may fairly be
described as wholly outside the lines on which that
measure was drawn.

     Nevertheless, am not prepared to say that either
of them can be wholly avoided. Both of them ought,

364                    THE IBISH LAND BILL                            [chap. xlii

I think, to be placed under exceptions and limitations,
wh' iFchorareexaomnlpyler,eaIsocnaanbnleo,t  if not
                                              think  absolutely necessary.
                                                      that existing rents,
which have remained unaltered for a long time,
and against which no recent or frequent increments
can even be alleged, ought to be open to State revision.

ISome limit ought, think, clearly to be imposed.
I should say that rents which have not been aug
amsen"tefadir  at all since the Land Act             ought  to        assumed
                rents." Or, it might be              said,  for  be  period of
                                                                 a
fifteen years. This would limit the excitement and
agitation which must be raised if every tenant in Ireland
is encouraged to hope that he may get off from a bar
gain which he made long ago, and which he has been
fulfilling easily until the recent agitation.
   ' Again, as regards the future increments of rent,
all cases must clearly be excepted where such incre
ments are due on a definite contract connected with
the reclamation of land, or the accruing benefit of
other improvements. Your proposition probably does

Inot contemplate interference in such a case. So far
     no very serious difficulty              before
     But when come to other                  points
I Isee                                               us.    see  difficulties
    '                                                   do
ve'ryThfeormunidivaebrlsealinrdiegehdt. of " free sale " establishes the
principle of joint ownership where it has never been
acq' uAigreadinsetquthiteabclyonosreqbuyenacneys
                                                  legitimate expectation.
                                                  of this right a landlord
can only defend himself by bringing a sort of legal
action against every one of his tenants for the purpose
of showing how much more rent he might have charged,
Iand consequently how much of the saleable value
ought equitably to belong to him.                    cannot conceive

any provision more certain to embarrass the courts,
to demoralize the tenants by tempting them to false
sw'eTarhinisg,plaannd  to cause  universal discontent.
                       seems to  me to meet none of              the  funda

mental objections against a great statutory transfer of
proprietary right from one class to another, although

1881]                     OBJECTIONS TO BILL           365

in theory it aims at giving some compensation for that

Iright.                   gather from your outline that

   ' But, further,
you contemplate abandoning the following leading
principles in the Land Act : (1) That above a rental
which was assumed to mark roughly the line of com
parative weakness and dependence, contract should be
left wholly free ; and (2) that leases should be an
equivalent both for disturbance compensation and for
improvement compensation, with the exception of per
manent buildings, and that this principle should be
abandoned, even for the larger tenants, who are

Ipe'rfechtolypeabyleouto   defend themselves.  recent  rebutting
                          have read the most
evidence on the subject of the alleged confiscation of
improvements. The Commission quotes especially the
evidence of a Scotsman of the name of Robertson.
His allegations refer chiefly to cases on the Leinster
estate. Mr. Hamilton, the agent, has shown that
Robertson's statements are scandalous misrepresenta
Itions and suppressions of the truth.
   ' do not dwell further on this now, only saying that
in my opinion there is no evidence whatever that the
Land Act of 1870 has failed to secure all that is justly
due to tenants above the £50 line on the score of

Iimp' rNoevveemrtehnetlse.ss, again, do not object to weighting

the scale of 1870 a little more heavily, as a fine on

disturbance.

  I' To sum up :

   '1. do not object to legal revision of rents under
Icertain limitations.

   '2. do not object to a statutory limitation of the
Itime within which rents can be legally raised.
   ' 3. do not object to weighting the scale of dis

turbance more heavily than it was weighted in the

IAc'tWofha1t870.do see the strongest possible objections to
are :

366            THE IRISH LAND BILL                        [chap. xlii

' 1. The universal right of sale where it has never
             legitimately acquired.
bee'' n32..   The abandonment of the line of free         contract.
              The abandonment of the principle             that time

Iexhausts    all claims except  "thFe"pewrimllacnaernrty  buildings.
             think that one
   ' still                                                with it both
the other two, and that the proposal of free sale will
destroy all the virtue of ownership, and render im
possible the only operations which have hitherto
produced improvement among the cottier tenantry
of the west.'

To his friend Lord Dufferin the Duke wrote
(February 1st, 1881) criticising the Bill :

  I' wrote to you about a fortnight ago giving an
outline of Gladstone's proposals. Since then all kinds
                          put on him to   go in           for the three
 pressure have            do so in form,  but              fear he will

F's." He will
Io"f                been

                    not
go very near it in substance.
   ' He says we cannot help giving  "     free            sale,"  but he

thinks it can be limited (1) by letting landlords show
how much of the saleable value belongs to them, and
(2) by declaring their right to increments of rent at
intervals. Now, the first of these checks involves an
aggressive action on the part of landlords against
every tenant, to show how much is underrented, while
the second check is only too likely to give way before

Iagi'taTthioen.result is that am getting more and more dis
Igusted with our position, and more and more anxious
to be out of it if   could.     " reasonable  veto " -- reason
   ' Of course, he  retains  a

able in the judgment of a court.
   ' But the most extraordinary part of his proposal is
that any tenant may apply to the court to have his
farm put under the protection of the court, whereupon,
if the court agrees  tht"oeFt'pasokwe" eirtatuonf odtnehcree.itcsoupIrtrto.tmecaItyitonm,reagyeuvlgeairtvyee
thing falls under

the whole three

1881]                        REVISION OF RENTS                        367

everything--tenure, rent, and fixity of rent as well as
of tenure.
   ' The court is allowed to refuse, and even encouraged

to refuse in certain cases, as, for example, when the
estate is well managed, and the exception of one farm
would be mischievous to the management. Glad
stone's notion is that court management will soon be
intolerable to both parties, and they will agree to get
out again.
thr'eBe u"t  the tenant would seek it        in order
             F's," and after having got      it, would       to get   the
                                                             seek to  get
out again in order that he might have that freedom
Iwhich has been refused to the owner.
in  '   have no      Iidaema  how such an    idea can be embodied
    a                         in hopes that
       Bill, and                             its absurdity will then

app' eRaicr.hmond's Commission* has signed a report in the
vaguest terms, but clearly indicating that a court
should have power to check rents. This is all they say,
except adding a sentence which implies that well-
managed estates are a small exception in Ireland !
rep' oNrto. thinItg  could    be worse or more shabby than this
                     looks    like a desire to admit all that is

alleged against the present law, and to give no help
wh'aIttevies rrebpyoratendy
                             suggestion.  is ready  to dish  the  Whigs
                             that Dizzy
       by a stronger          Land Bill than        they   wbouutldI
again   do not know           whether this is       true,             agree
                                                                      have
Ito.
Imy suspicions.               hear that Bath (who, however, is

quite honest) says he does hope we shall produce a

good strong Bill. What this word means people don't
seem to care to define to themselves.

  I' Gladstone's proposals so far are confined to yearly

tenancies. But suspect he will propose that when a
lease ends the tenant shall at once come under the

   * A Royal Commission to inquire into the condition of agricul

ture in the United Kingdom, of which the Duke of Richmond was

chairman.

368                  THE IRISH LAND BILL                              [chap. xtji

protection of a general law which gives him more than

Ihis   lease !  we  are  being      scourged  for our former          sins.
    '
       Verily
     have been unwell all day, and perhaps write in the
blues more than usual. But it is the perplexities
Iaround me which have made me feel ill.                         have told
IGladstone of the immense temptation feel to be free
to expose the gross lies told by the witnesses before the
Commission, and the claptrap of the report.'

       To Lord Dufferin {February 23rd, 1881).

     I' never felt in such a fix in my life. Gladstone is
the    only barrier  btehtrweeee"n   us  a"n--d tthhaet                He will
not    agree to the                                      deep   sea.  in form.
                                    F's                  is to  say,
IBut he sees his way to elaborate provisions which

must, think, end in them, and are very little short
of them now. On the other hand, he argues steadily
against extreme views, and denies joint ownership, and
keeps, or wishes to keep, some power of management
in keeping the right of eviction subject to a fine, as
under the Act of 1870. This is the only principle of
the Act, or nearly so, which is not abandoned.
   ' The power of sale is to be checked by a right to
refuse to accept purchase on specified grounds, among
which is any custom limiting the rate. Also by a right
on the part of the owner to share in the price, if he has
established cheapness or lowness of rent. But any
tpyoreoahtrealcyvteiotenhniasnotfaf rmmcaoyupruat.tppwlIyhtotlolyiscuotnuhdreterfom"rosasutpfiexwervdoisniloednaesref",uloolyrr

elaborate scheme you ever saw. All the Radicals pro
nounce it fundamentally deficient, inasmuch as it does
not give fixity, but keeps up the power of eviction,
although under increased rates of fine. What they
want is to deprive ownership of all power of manage
ment. This Gladstone will not agree to, but he does
agree to transfer all power to a court, if the court thinks
fit to accept it. Thus it places every landlord in

1881]        THE ' BLUNDERBUS ARGUMENT '                                                                              369

Ireland at the mercy of the court, which may or may
not accept this power of protectorate ! Gladstone's
own idea is that this will be so intolerable an alternative
to all parties that they will not apply, and will prefer
free contract, because the tenant will also be prevented
from free sale in this case, and will still be liable to
Ieviction if the court approves.

   ' do not see my way to be an advocate of such a
measure as it stands, but it is not settled yet, and
there
        misawy ebaerygwreoartkm--osduifcihcaitgionnosr.ance  of  all  that                                         landed
  ' It
ownership ought to be and is.'

   The Duke's wide practical experience of land-
holding among a Celtic people gave him an insight into
the difficulties and dangers of legislation with regard
to land tenure in Ireland which no theoretical know

ledge could supply ; and there was more similarity
between the conditions in the West Highlands of Scot
land and the South and West of Ireland than Mr.

Gladstone could bring himself to believe.

         To Lord Dufferin {April 1th, 1881).
I' have found it impossible to use the arguments
Anthetecel"esastashtrr,yeeittoFi'sdse"pfeountneddnetGrialalaldystetotmhneep'os"ratBrhyrilela,endwFh'tshici"hn  is really
                                                                                                               disguise.
                                                                                                               to every
tenant who desires to have them, and who chooses to
run the very small risk of having his rent raised by the
court to which he must apply.
   ' The measure may be necessary                            appease Ireland,
which is in a dangerous condition.  to                       may, if accepted,

                                    It
do good even to owners, who are in danger of losing all.
IBut this is an argument from political necessity which,
a"sbaluMndineirsbtuesr,     cannot  c"o--nsacievnetriyousstlryonguseo.ne,                                      It is  the
                         argument                                                                                     not
                                                                                                                but

one easy to defend on the part of those who hold the

blunderbus.
vol. n.
                                                                                                               24

370              THE IRISH LAND BILL                         [chap. xlii

  ' I have felt also that being a party to this Bill as a

Minister would fatally embarrass me in questions still

before us.'

     From Mr. Gladstone {March 28th, 1881).
I' As far as have been able to gather, your main
Ipoint of difficulty in the matter of Irish land is the

  right of sale." You do not, think, stumble at the
interference of the court with rent, which, in my mind,
Iis a far more advanced proposition.
                                                  it  quite  an  open
   ' As to this right of sale, think
question in principle whether when the court limits
rent it should   also limit the price of the tenant              right.
                 mfryomoritghiins,alI  draft.                    not to
It stood so in                         earnestly  beseech   you

   ' But, apart
Iiamnror'invmsetyheaartvmeasipnnegydeo.chnhaesttIayhtrcmogouurnegscathlut stdilhoeeninasgl atphwda,virtetharsnoedfitttohIientahmsetuhlbaecjwoenccovtofimnfsucailnelleydg.
that the argument is overwhelming.'

   This correspondence with Mr. Gladstone shows the

divergence of opinion existing between him and the
Duke, on fundamental points affecting the government
of Ireland. When the Duke was finally convinced
that Mr. Gladstone was determined on a course of

policy which he could not conscientiously approve, he

resolved to leave the Government, rather than become
responsible for such a measure as the Irish Land Bill.

   The letter containing the Duke's resignation is
dated March 31st, 1881 :

'    My         dear Gladstone,
             '  After every effort to do
                 the position in which    Isos, hIoufilndd  myself unable
     face
                                                            be placed if
Ito
were to be one of those who recommend to Parliament
Ithe Land Bill for Ireland now adopted by the Cabinet.

   ' will not weary you with arguments on the subject.

1881]     DOOM OF OWNERSHIP IN IRELAND                                371

IThe time for that is past. It is enough for me to say

now that cannot use, with honesty, almost any of the
counter-arguments which must be used in order to
justify   some of the   main provisions of                 Bill.
          questions of  minor importance             the          position
    ' On                                             this  is a

which, in the course of public life, must often be
accepted and submitted to. But in questions of such
far-reaching consequence as those involved in this

Inew Irish Land Bill it is a position in which cannot
place myself with a good conscience, or even with
Itolerable peace of mind. Under these circumstances,

  have no choice but to ask you to lay my resignation
before the Queen.'

   Mr. Gladstone again urged delay, pointing out
certain concessions which had been made. But the

Duke wrote (April 15th, 1881) stating his objections to
the very principle of the Bill :

  I' heard of the little ameliorations consented to on
I ISaturday. But confess am more struck by the fact
that   t"hemaCrakbeitnevtalhuaed"  ever consented    for a moment to
omit                                as the ultimate  standard of rent
than by the fact that it has been restored. The Irish
Secretary has been steadily opposed to this and to
every other mitigation of the extreme doctrines of
Itenant right.

   ' But stand back from the picture and look at it as
a whole.
               is  an   organic    whole,  " compacted            by  that
   ' The Bill
which every joint supplieth," and instinct with a life
which is death to ownership) of land in Ireland, as owner
                                            in every civilized
ship is enjoyed    Iand understood         tried to ride at this
country. Again
                   and again have
Ifence with my eyes shut. Again and again find
Imyself recoiling from it as a fence which cannot take
IIwith a good conscience. The blunderbus argument is
the only one could use with sincerity.                     don't deny
its force. But Ministers, in using it, are themselves the

                                                           24--2

372                         THE IRISH LAND BILL                          [chap. xLn

Iholders of the blunderbus, and can take no share in
Ipresenting that powerful               weapon of logic at               thIecahneandost
                                        to us appeals which
of those who will address
answer. Perhaps can best explain my position and
          about this Bill               Ibryemasekminbgeryowueltl,o      back a few
feelings                                                             go  asking you
years to   a time which
                                                                     by
to suppose yourself member of a Cabinet which adopted
a fortification scheme on an immense scale, to be pro
vided for by                loan !       Or at the    pare"sedniftfetriemnetiatief dthe"
Cabinet were             a  decide      in favour of
                        to
                                        out the   principle of           Northcote's
i"nceoxmeme-ptatixo,ns  ca"rrtyoinigts  logical  conclusions !
                                                                          I am con
Ivinced that no loyalty to colleagues or any other con

siderations of personal feeling, to which am deeply
sensible, would              induce you to face the                  Iptowsiotiuolnd  of
defending these             measures in Parliament.
                                                                                      be

to you a moral and intellectual impossibility.'

On April 8th, 1881, Mr. Gladstone wrote to express

his regret at the inevitable separation :

  I' am sorry to admit that I can offer no objection

to your confirming to-night on your own, the highest
authority, the very melancholy intelligence of your

resignation.
   ' Were there any proceedings of Cabinet to disclose,
you would, as you will well recollect, require the
special permission of the Queen to speak upon them ;
but as there is nothing to state but your dissent from
Isome of our proposals in a measure now printed and
circ' uIlawterdit,e   do not think there is any difficulty.              the
                     this note, alas ! beside your chair in
Cabinet-room-- now vacant.
   ' God bless you in all things.'

   In two letters to Mr. Gladstone, dated April 20th
and April 26th, the Duke vindicated his position :

  I' You                                   two passages in my last
                                           distinguish between what
letter to
          yaosku--moenetoinrewchoincchile

1881]               ARGUMENT WITH GLADSTONE                          373

I Ican submit to or accept as a peer, and what could
be responsible for proposing as a Minister ; the other

I Ipassage in which say must speak out in defence of
Iwhat think on the merits.
' You ask what meaning remains in the first passage

after the second.
   ' Surely you cannot think that a public man, because
he submits to the inevitable, is bound to do so in
silence. This would be unreasonable even if every
thing is inevitable.
   ' But besides the freedom of every man to point out
the unreasonableness of that which is submitted to
efovrilst--hebesasikdeesofalpl etahcaet,,  or for the avoidance      of greater
                                           it is possible that fair  argument
may induce Parliament at least to modify some of what
appears to me to be the unreasonableness of parts of

the proposal.

   ' Considering the chops and changes which the Bill
underwent up to the very last moment, in the Cabinet
and out of it, you surely cannot be prepared to argue

that, as it stands now, it is a work of perfect and
almost divine wisdom, so that no man ought to speak
I Iaga' inshtavaenynopadrtouobf titt.hat
Ito or accept much which                   shall be obliged to submit
                                           think wrong and injurious.
But it does not at all follow that we should all hold
our peace about the extent of sacrifice which such
Isubmission really involves.
  I' pass to another part of your letter, which under
stand much better.

   ' You enumerate the political dangers, arising out of
       condition of Ireland,               awnhdichtocopmroppeolseyotuhisto Briello.penI
the    Irish Land question
the
am very far from undervaluing the argument of
political danger arising out of the condition of Ireland.
I"Yowuertehenthgeo  on to say that, looking   at these dangers,
                    greatest poltroon on the  face of the earth,
I should for one be driven forward by forces. . . ."
' You have no reason, certainly, to fear being charged

374                    THE IRISH LAND BILL                                 [chap. ilu

IwI ithhavpeoltraodomneirreyd.
                        Since first sat with you in Cabinet
                       more than anything your political
courage, of which the extension of the income-tax to

IIreland was the first conspicuous example which saw.
I IIn the very last Cabinet meeting in which, fear,
Ishall ever sit with you saw the same spirit in the
desire you showed to attack the exemptions from income-
tax     which  weaker Ministers have given or                       extended.
        These  instances of a spirit rebellious                     against mere
     '

popular clap-traps, and disposed to assert and to
stand by sound principle against them, have been too
numerous in my own observation of your course to be
Iforgotten by me.

   ' But am sure you do not expect me to regard this
Irish Land Bill as     an example of political courage.
                       say, a concession to political danger,
  ' It is, what you
and the fear of Parliamentary opposition is not the
fear to which you are in any way exposed.
Em' aTnhceipDautikoen,ofonWceellsinaigdt,on" ,I'imn  recommending Catholic
                                                     afraid of Ireland."
     ' This seems to me the only argument in favour of
parts of the Bill.
   ' But this is an argument which you will not use in
public, and so you are driven to the use of arguments
Ion the merits, which        cannot at all agree in.
  I' must, therefore,        be free to speak on the                       merits  of
the proposals in themselves, which is all the more
necessary, as arguments for the Bill on its merits are
sure to be applied more or less logically elsewhere than
Iin     Ireland.
        ' hope    you  will  not mind                Imycauresinag   this  freedom.
I care little for office now.                                       great
                                                                           deal for
Imy freedom, both in pen and tongue, to say what
believe to be true in matters of public interest.

  I I'You said represented "extreme opinions."

Irepresent your own opinions in 1870, and deny alto
gether the validity of the arguments which you now

use to vindicate a change so fundamental as this Bill
involves.'

1881]           ARGUMENT WITH GLADSTONE                                            375

The second letter is as follows :

I' Since writing to you last night have been thinking
over the implied construction, in abatement of my
freedom on       the Land                    Bill, which you  put on my
words that    "  a man may                    accept what he  can take no

Ishare  in proposing."
    '   do not   wish  Itoamengaangxeiouysouthaint             argument on
        words.                                           any  should under
these             But                                    you

stand my own view, which is that these words clearly
Ileave                                                                         much
   can  mulytimoawtnelyjud"gamcceenptt       u"nfaesttearepdeeraswhtoenhotwhe   time

comes to consider

  I' You are able
                  that very serious question.                 which
                 to draw some distinctions in
cannot follow you.      F"otrhreexeamFp'sle",            said that             if the
Bill were to give the                          you       could not             your
                                               you
self propose it ; but you implied that Forster might do
                  Prime                      Minister.
                  cannot
                 not act                     understand
Iasos,'tyWhoaeutl.l,reImI macioynusinledglf  upon it.    such a distinction
' On the other hand,                         can see an  enormous distinc
iamtniouBnwcihlhbl ieicntahwntehdweiesnbBaberieielnilngnwgohmmwiceehrpmelIlabycdeeirsadaoppfIpeareaoCrmvaewb,nhinoobetut sptawrieynhpsi,atchrhe"edpTprhooteopsriotersiuoeinnss
the risk of throwing it out."
   ' But the    cpaosseist.ionItjusist       now is wholly different from
both these                                   now the case of dissension
with a view to reasonable modifications one way or
another.
                          dissension           I feel myself                   to  be
   ' In this preliminary
taothhbteheseolBrlausistlletinlhymaafosrmebmeee.onesntt--Tdhdrneiaseawvwdenhvraounlseptuarwcgeieercroweuuhmssausttcpahwnoacsaessitsipaolnnaud--cnedwdderhrimvawetenhawincatdhso
IInot finally decided.
                                               know the exigencies
   ' do not complain, because
Iunder which you conceived yourself to be. But, as a

matter of fact, did keep myself open, by means of

376                    THE IBISH LAND BILL                        [chap. xlii

repeated memoranda to the Cabinet contesting several
main  points of fundamental
      confess that my own                    consequence.                 lies
  I'                                         feeling of obligation
Iin a different direction.                   feel more bound by the
conduct, the language, of the Cabinet of 1870 than you

seem to do. In my opinion, we ought not to unsettle so
completely what was done and said then, unless under
clear evidence of the              failure   of that Act to secure what
it
    aimed at  securing.            II see    no such evidence.
    ' On the  contrary,                 see
                                             abundant evidence that it
did very nearly all that it was just to do in that

direction.
   ' Even in your speech of November 9 at the Guildhall
you gave no sign of intending to go as far as you have

Idone. Under all these circumstances, and many more

which it would be tedious to go into, do feel wholly
free to discuss the land question with perfect freedom,

Iwhatever may ultimately be obliged to accept as the
Iresult of what think is a needless surrender of much
Itha' tYoouughdtentyo  have been tenaciously held.
                                                    the Duke of   Welling
ton's motive,          "befienagr  influenced by    of Ireland."
   ' do not                        for the peace
                       understand this, because your last letter
but one dwells almost wholly on the political dangers
of the condition of that country.
    ' My opinion of the authority you wield is such that
I   believe a fearless serious departure from the Act of
1870 would have been quite enough if you had put your
foot down as  firmly as in the
   ' You did  so in argument                      Cabinet.  the  " three  F's."
                                                  against
TprheissenBt iltleniasnt"sp, oatendntiIaltlhyi"nk,  the "three F's"       to all
                                                                          future
                                                     and fear also, to

tenancies.

   ' You cannot blame anyone who sticks to what you
laid down in 1870, if he sees no adequate reason for

Ilapsing in the evidence before him. left you, not only
Ibecause could not be a proposer of the Bill, but quite

Ias much, perhaps even more, because foresaw the
Iuse of arguments which regard as rotten to the core.

1881]       THE DUKE'S RESIGNATION                                         377

  I' What is a man to do under such circumstances ?
Icannot agree to complete silence. shall be obliged to
Ileave unsaid much that think.'

   On April 8th, 1881, the Duke made a statement in
the House of Lords of his reasons for leaving the
Government, from which the following extract is taken :

    I' have a few words to address to the House of the
Inature of a personal, and, am sorry to say, a very
Ipainful explanation.  have resigned the office which
I have held in   Her Majesty's                            Government, and  that
                 been accepted                            by the Queen.
resignation has                                                            It is
usual for a Minister, under such circumstances, to give
some explanation in Parliament of the causes for the
course which he has taken. There are, however, some

great difficulties, and, indeed, insuperable difficulties,
in the way of my giving on the present occasion any
explanation which can be really satisfactory to your
Lordships or to myself. My differences with my
colleagues concern, and concern only, a measure which
is now before the other House of Parliament, and, quite
obviously, it would be improper for me now to enter

Iupon the discussion of that Bill. can only, therefore,
Isay, in very general terms, that whilst approve and
heartily support every measure which can reason
Iably be taken to increase the number of owners of land

in Ireland, am opposed to measures which tend to

destroy ownership altogether, by depriving it of the
conditions  which   are necessary to                      the exercise of    its
functions.          been one of the                       professed objects  of
            It has
the Liberal party for many years to get rid, as much
                                                            which   constitute what
as  cpaollsesdibl"e,limofittehdesoewrneesrtsrhiciption"s  in land.    My opinion is
is

that the scheme of the Government will tend to paralyze
the ownership of land in Ireland by placing it, for all
time to come, under new fetters and limitations under
which it is not placed in any other civilized country in
the world. Under this scheme neither the landlord nor

378               THE IRISH LAND BILL                                                            [chap. zlii

Ithe tenant will be owner. In Ireland ownership will be
in commission or in abeyance.  regard this result as
injurious to the agricultural industry of any country,
and especially injurious to a country in the condition
Iof Ireland.  am not able to develop this opinion or
Ito defend it now, but trust at least it will be recognised
by your Lordships as an opinion which represents an
objection fundamental in its character, and affecting,
more or less directly, several leading proposals of the

IGovernment. Holding the opinion have indicated of
I Ithe Government scheme, felt could not, as an honest
man, be    torteossptahoyenstihabadletopIftoiohrnarveoecfotmPaamkerelninadmtihneigsnt.sttheapIt  scheme as
                                                                                                 have only
a whole                                                                                          with deep
further
regret, on account of the separation which it makes

between myself and my noble friends near me, and

especially the separation which it makes between my
Iself and my right honourable friend at the head of
the Government.   have had the honour of a close

political  connection with  ofmtyweringthyt-nhinoenoyueraabrsle--                                friend
now for    the long period                                                                       a con

nection on my part of ever-increasing affection and
respect. Nothing but an absolute sense of public duty,
in relation to a question of immense and far-reaching
Iconsequence, could have compelled me to take the

step which now most reluctantly communicate to
your Lordships.'

   The Duke received many letters expressive of regret
at his resignation, from members of the Cabinet and

others.

           From Lord Spencer {April 10, 1881).

   ' Do not trouble yourself  to answer  tIhrise,grbeut tthIewsatenpt
to write a few words to say   how much

wh'icYhouhrasarbesmenocveedwiylloubefroamgrtehaet,Cavbeirnyet.great, loss to
us, for we have no one who speaks so fearlessly his
view, and is able to express it so forcibly as you.

1881]         LETTER FROM MR. BRIGHT               379

  I' have no doubt that on general principles your view
Iis quite just and strictly right, but see no policy for

Ireland which has a chance of restoring law and quiet

Iand order which does not deal with the land question,

and if it must be dealt with, see nothing short of what
Gladstone has proposed which will have a chance of

success.

            *****

  I' As an admirer of yours of some years' standing,
Iwanted to say to you how sorry am that you have

left the Government. . . .'

              From Mr. Bright {April 8, 1881).

   ' My dear Duke,

      I' cannot let the day pass away without telling
Iyou how much am grieved at the conclusion to which
Iyou'  have   come to withdraw  from the Government.
         had   hoped that you   might have consented  to

Iremain with Mr. Gladstone under the pressure of the

political necessity which rests upon him ; but acknow
ledge the difficulty of your position in the House of
Lords, expected to support a measure to some portions
which you
' cannot
I Iof
               have insuperable objections.  only  regret
              condemn your course ; can
Iit. At the Cabinet this morning all present felt and
expressed this regret.  am sure you will be glad if
we succeed in the attempt to put an end to the sad
discord existing in Ireland, although you are not able
Ito give us the powerful assistance which was expected
from you.     hope, however, that you will be able to
support many portions of the Bill, and especially those
which are intended to increase the number of pro
Iprietors of land in Ireland.
   ' shall still  have   Ithe advantage of  reading your
contributions to  the                       at times, not
                        Review, and hope
rarely occurring, the pleasure of meeting you as here
Itofore on the terms of friendship which you have so

kindly permitted, and which have so greatly valued.'

380                         THE IRISH LAND BILL                       [CHAP. XL1I

 *****From Lord Granville {April 5, 1881).

   ' My dear Argyll,

       I' am really touched at your having been in
Iduced by anything said to think over your position.
  I' have often, when younger, taken a bigger fence
Ithan liked, merely because the brook on one side

and the rail on the other appeared to me still more

dan' gAermouasn. is the best judge, in the last resort, of his

own honour, but there are very few occasions on which
he would not act more wisely after consultation with
real friends.

   ' Pray have it completely out with Gladstone and
the Chancellor before you finally decide.

                                          ' Yours affectionately,

                                                                'G.'

         From Lord Dufferin {April 19th, 1881).

...' My dear Lorne,
I I13th. '  have just got          your    steocownhdaltetItesraidof  April the
                  only add         a line
                                                                      yesterday
to urge     Iyoaumosnucree         to take your          in  the      Govern
ment.                       more    both for the  place  of  the      country
                            that,                  sake
as well as for your own, it will be best that you should
do so.

   ' How pleasant it would be to have you for a master !
but, apart from any consideration of this kind, who is
there in either House whose presence in the Cabinet
would be a better guarantee for a sober, high-minded,
and conscientious policy ? To speak plainly, the ten
dency of the extreme section of the Liberal party is
to buy the support of the masses by distributing
amongst them the property of their own political
opponents, and it is towards a             social rather than
political revolution that we are           tending -- at least,       a

                                                                      if

what is taking place in Ireland is any indication of
the future, and a precedent established there is almost

1881]      BESSBOROUGH COMMISSION                              381

sure to be applied elsewhere. Now, what a bulwark
against the impending flood will be your name, your
courage, and your authority ! As it is, look what the
clause you introduced into the Irish Land Act has
done towards maintaining alive in Ireland the principle
of freedom of contract, which otherwise would have

been entirely lost. It at once stamps the whole Bill

with the character of abnormal and exceptional legisla
tion, which is the only theory upon which it can be
justified ; and your power for good in the Cabinet
would be ten times more than what it would be as a

*****friendly critic outside.
  I' And now good-bye, dear Lome. Don't bother too

much about me, for will know how to possess my
soul in patience.
                        ' Yours affectionately,

                                        ' Dufferin.'

   When the Report of the Bessborough Commission,

which had been appointed to investigate the working
of the Irish Land Act of 1870, was laid before the

House of Lords, the Duke, on July 1st, made a long

speech, calling the attention of the House to the

Report of the Commission. On the 7th of July the

Queen wrote the following letter to the Duke with
reference to this speech :

  I' Dear Duke,

         ' am anxious to know how you are, and if you

Ihave not suffered from your exertions on Friday.
read with  smaiudchwaisnt"ermesatgnyiofiucernfti.n"e           which Lord
Granville                                             speech,

                                                      ...
I' What has been the effect of these last nights in
the House of Commons ?  should be grateful if you

could enlighten me. ' Ever yours affectio'naVt.eRly., & L'

382               THE TRISH LAND BILL               [chap. xui

   The Irish Land Bill passed the second reading in
the House of Commons by a majority of two to one.
There was some opposition in the House of Lords, but
eventually the Bill became law (August 22nd, 1881).

   The Duke did not allow political differences to inter
fere with the private friendship which had existed
between him and Mr. Gladstone for so many years.

The following letter touches on this point :

     To Mr. Gladstone {November 29th, 1881).
I' shocked some of your faithful adherents lately
bLaywwrwitaisng"  a letter to   the effect   that   the Irish Land
                  barbarous    legislation,  only   excusable, if it
could be excused at all, by the barbarous condition of
Ireland."
I' But feel more and more every day that this is
Iwithin the                                         wicked and un
                                                    wish to bother
repentant,
                  truth.    ISo, you see,       am
                  but --                     don't
                          liberavi, and
you any more about it in any correspondence we may

Ihav' e. have been at the sad work of looking over old
letters, and this has made me see how many our
letters have been, and through what discrimina rerum
for more than thirty years. We can afford to differ

Ion the Land Act, as well as on some other things.
am putting your letters together, and they are a very
big bundle.'

   The following quotation from a letter, written by
Mr. Gladstone to a friend, shows the feeling he enter
tained for the Duke during the years of their political

comradeship :

   ' Enmity itself has never been more tenacious than
Argyll's friendship and support.'

   In the month of August, 1881, the Duke was married

to Mrs. Anson, widow of Colonel Anson, V.C., and

1882]     THE MANTTJAN MEDAL                     383

eldest daughter of Dr. Claughton, Bishop of St. Albans.

After his marriage, he spent some weeks cruising in
his yacht on the west coast of Scotland and visiting
his island properties, and the following winter was
spent quietly at Inveraray. The Duke returned to
London in time for the meeting of Parliament in

February. During the session he spoke on several
occasions in the House of Lords.

   In the month of July, the Duke was presented by

the Prince of Mantua with the Mantuan Medal in gold.
The accompanying letter from the secretary explains
the history of this distinction :

'Sm,
       ' The Council of the Prince of Mantua and Mont-
ferrat's Medal Fund have awarded you the medal for
distinguished piety and virtue, as a token of the high
esteem they have for your long life devoted to God
and your fellow-men.
   ' These medals were instituted in the fourteenth
century by Louis Gonzaga, Captain of Mantua, and
for four hundred years were continued by his suc

cessors. . . .

   ' The Prince of Mantua and Montferrat, the present
male representative of the house of Gonzaga, has
lately recovered a book which records the gift of
medals to about one thousand eminent persons of all
nations   by his ancestors.
          Highness would      ...     add  your  autograph
   ' His
                             like to
letter to the collection of the great names of the past,
and your photographic portrait also, if you deem this
occasion worthy of them.'

                   CHAPTER XLIII

                         1881-86

THE FRANCHISE BILL-- THE SOUDAN -- LIBERALISM

                           AND RADICALISM

The Duke, being now free from the responsibility of
Office, was in a more independent position, and his
release from a situation of growing difficulty was very
welcome to him. In a letter to Lord Granville, two

years later, he wrote :

I' value nothing so much now as my political inde
Itpieonndeonfce",  s"eetodafoilyllomworaendanndotmotoreletahde,
 when                                                            disposi
Liberals                                                          and to

be silent when they ought to speak out.'

   As regards the Duke's attitude towards his late col
leagues, he was not antagonistic to the Foreign Policy
of the Government, although he disapproved of the
Irish Land Act. During the rest of the Gladstone

Administration he continued to be on good terms
with his former leader, and their correspondence,
except on the question of the Land Act, was as cordial
as ever. He acted with his party in general, but he
no longer hesitated to criticise when he disagreed.
During the dispute with the House of Lords over the
Franchise Act of 1884 and the undisclosed Redistribu
tion Bill, he acted as an intermediary and peacemaker
between Lord Salisbury and Mr. Gladstone, and his

efforts contributed to bring about a compromise,

                                                                     384

MANTUAN MEDAL.  [Tojacc p. 384, volii.


1881-86]                     REDISTRIBUTION                385

and thus to avert a movement against the House of
Lords.

               To Mr. Gladstone {July Uth, 1884).

    ' Excuse an ebullition of conscience on reading your
Downing Street speech. You reproach Salisbury
severely for describing the position of Redistributionists
                             of a  Franchise Bill) as that of men
("afftigerhtitnhge  passing  rope  round their necks." You re
                    with a
present this as an insult to the new voters, and generally
as an unfair description of the position. Yet, as it
seems to me, you proceed to make an explanation
which is tantamount exactly to the same thing. You
say that you cannot pass any Redistribution Bill un
less the Opposition is placed under the pressure of
tsBooiml'lb,eTeh"itmshthiosset--eiyveemtmhs;aaytta,ongudomnleweysoitstuhoothbufueetyr."tshtimearkpeleyyxopaulafrrinaRnektdhiascttornibmfeusotstiioiovnne
of the truth of Salisbury's description of the position
                will be in as regards Redistribution.
Ieve' ryoanme  not denying the wisdom of the tactics,  as  such.
But it does not seem to me to be fair to blame Salisbury
for describing the position in words which mean nothing
mo'rYeotuhaanrgyuoeu  yourself indicate  it to be.
                      that the friends                     Bill
                                         of the Franchise
would be in exactly a like position if they consented
    tie   the two     measures indissolubly together.
to        this be      true, then the question reduces
    ' If
                                                           itself
simply to this : one or other of the two parties must
consent to fight with a rope round his neck. Which is
it t' oRabtehe? r a melancholy result of party Government
is the readjustment of matters fundamental in the
I Iworking of the Constitution. My only ground of hope

is that, from what know of your opinions, have good
reason to expect from you a scheme of Redistribution
which shall be within the lines of tradition and of
    vol. n.
                                                       25

386                 THE FRANCHISE BILL                       [chap. xuii

IConstitution, and in this expectation wish to vote
and
        speak.      whole  position   is  one     in  which  reasonable
    '
       But the
methods of procedure are sacrificed to the need, real
or supposed, of dexterous tactics, in the management

of opposing factions. This may be the fact, but it is
not a pleasant one.'

  In the course of the debates on the Franchise Bill

in the House of Lords, the Duke spoke in support of

the Government measure.

         To Mr. Gladstone {July 25th, 1884).

I' have had many indications, both in conversation
and in letters, of the great anxiety of moderate men
on both sides to see some escape from the present
state of
   ' My   things.   setting  forth the principles            you had
          speech,
Iindicated, and the significance thereof, has had far

more effect than at all expected, while, on the other
hand, my expression of belief in the reality of the
assent given to the new franchise by the Conserva
Itives has greatly conciliated them.
   ' Among others,         hcahvaeirmtaon-d, ayI   a letter   from Lord
Wharncliffe, who was                              think, of  "SGallaisdbsutornye's
meeting at Sheffield,
                           in which he says :
has only to satisfy us as to the character of the Redis
tribution Bills and all bother is over."
   ' Looking to all the admissions you have made, and
all the offers you have sanctioned, acknowledging the

justice and expediency of a close succession between
Ithe two measures, and of both being dealt with by
the old constituencies     and not        by      "thceonndeewsc,enddo"  think
that you should now        prepare        to                             upon
                     in the autumn.
pa'rtIifcuthlaisrs  great measure of  Reform          in  its two  parts  is,
as you seem to wish it to be, the last great measure
of your political career, it is surely a very great object

1881-86]      FRANCHISE AND REDISTRIBUTION                                      387

to get it passed with something approaching to general
Iassent.
    ' have  replied              to  Lord        Wharncliffe          that  I firmly

believe you to be the only man with authority enough
to effect a reasonable settlement                in this way.
   ' The Franchise Bill is every                 day more and                   more

accepted as settled. This you have gained, and what
all men now want to be assured of is the other half.'

           To Mr. Gladstone {July 2Qth, 1884).
' I have had a final letter from Salisbury, shy of
making any proposals himself, which he says he could
not do     without consulting his House                               of"
friends,   but adding that, without some                                   Commons

                                                                           P.C." be
                                 Redistribution Bill will be hard to
tween     "paanrtdiesp,asasneyd  it must be, by hook or by crook,
pass,      very limited time,
within a   sentence seems to
   ' This                                  as you say."               and   to  dwell
                                           me to admit
upon the virtual acceptance of the new franchise, as
already putting all parties under the compulsion on
which you reckoned as the only means of passing the
new Bill.

  ' It is true that the new voters are not actually
admitted, but the universal sense that they cannot be
kept out for any length of time seems to me to be a
consciousness of imminence which will, and must, pro
duce pretty much all the pressure on which you reckon.
wit' hHatrhteingotlodnd'sistrciobnufteisosnion"  that the
                                                 w" oius ldreanlolyt  new franchise
representation of the people                                          produce a fair
                                                                      a confession of
the whole case ; and if all parties are equally sensible
of this, and if all of them, consequently, dread the one
Bill passing  into operation               wawyithoof u"t
              desired in the                                 the       other,   what
more can be                                                rope
                                                                      "?'

           To Mr. Gladstone {September 6th, 1884).

  I' have been in no communication with the Opposi
Ition of late. But, of course, see that the storm of

                                                                                 25--2

388                THE FRANCHISE BILL                  [OHAP. XLIII

oratory on both sides is tending, as it always does, to
Iexa' gghearavteionnotanydet  mutual injustice.
Icarefully, but               had time to read   your  speeches  very

                              dispute altogether the fairness of
several things you have said about the position of the

IHouse of Lords. Personally, don't care. Some
Itimes have had almost a wish to end my days as a
Imember of the House of Commons. But so long as
the House of       Lords exists shall            sittsancdhaurapctearg.ainsItt
prejudice and      misrepresentation of
has its own merits, which are substantial ; and the

recent tendencies of the House of Commons are well
Icalculated to set off those merits by contrast.

   ' have lately had suggestions from distinguished
men in your House which show that they look to us
to do what they would like to do in the Commons, and
which they have not the courage to propose, or, at
least, to stand by.
I' So long as write to you on politics, I;must write
Ifreely, as things occur to me.  do not think the con
tention of the Lords so monstrous as you represent it.
The balance of argument is against their course on the
whole. But this is my opinion mainly because of my
expectation of your handling of Redistribution, and
because of my dread of its falling into weaker hands.
   ' Otherwise they have much to say for themselves,
and your candour in explaining that you have wished
all parties to be under the halter on that subject, in
order that they may all more readily agree to your
terms, places  Parliament     in a position which it may
well resent.                  Parliament as a body to be
               It presents
dealt with through its fear of consequences ; to be
driven by force of circumstances, and not by force of
reason. Quite true of almost all bodies of men. But
can any Minister insist on such tactics as self-evidently
Ijust and reasonable ?
     ' Meanwhile,             shall continue to do what 1 can to

Iper'suahdoepetototesmenpdertaoteyocuoutrose-ms. orrow, or next day, copy

1881-80] GENERAL GORDON AND THE SOUDAN             389

Iof a
Ihinagve"
paper*   in   which I have explained the      p"olcicryoft
pursued   on
               my island estates towards the
population for thirty-five years.  hope you
will find the facts not without interest, although you
once did tell me that they had no bearing on questions
on which, in my view, they do bear very closely.'

   The negotiations between the leaders of the two
parties on the subject of the Franchise and Redistribu
tion Bills, in which the Duke had taken an important
part, were eventually brought to a successful issue.
The Franchise Bill passed towards the close of 1884,

and the Redistribution Bill shortly afterwards.
   Early in 1884, when the Mahdi had established his

power in the Soudan, the Government sent out General
Gordon to rescue the garrisons of Khartoum and some
other outlying places, and to ' arrange for the evacua
tion and administration of the province.' On arrival,

General Gordon found that it was necessary to ask

for some troops in order to demonstrate that he had
the support of the Government, and he further tele

graphed : ' If Egypt is to be quiet, the Mahdi must

be smashed.' The Government, however, remained
inactive, and it was not until popular anxiety for the
safety of General Gordon was strongly aroused that
a force was despatched for his relief (January 26, 1885).
But the delay had been fatal. Before the troops
could reach Khartoum, it had fallen, and its brave

defender had perished, to the bitterness of death having
been added the bitterness of the thought that he had

been abandoned by his country.
   The Duke's opinion regarding the critical position

in which General Gordon was placed, owing to the

   * 1 Crofts and Farms in the Hebrides, being an Account of the
Management of an Island Estate1 (D. Douglas, 1883).

390                   THE SOUDAN                                     [chap. xliii

vacillation of the Government, is expressed in the

following letter to Lord Granville (April 25th, 1884) :

' My ' dI ecaarnnGotratnhvinikllet,hat all this verbal fencing of
Gladstone about Gordon and Khartoum can be wise.
Of course, in the case of complicated military opera
tions, it is dangerous to give notice even of intentions.
But this is not a case of that kind. There are certainly
only two, probably there is only one way of relieving
Gordon by any military operation, and neither of those
can possibly be impeded by any knowledge on the part
of the Arabs. On the other hand, where moral effect

is aimed at, and where it is really all in all, these per

sistent efforts at circumlocution are simply mischievous.
IThey irritate people at home beyond all endurance,
Iand they  wdihshaetairstegnoinpgeoopnle--ionurEgcyhpietf  equally.  think
  can see                                                  is retreating with
his back to the wall, as he used to do with Palm's
Fortifications. He disputes every inch of the ground.
His suggestions of delay are of inexhaustible fertility.
His power of belief in what he wishes is inexpugnable,
but you are dealing with dangerous elements in all
this. My belief is that a few firm and determined
words would do a world          of good both                  in Egypt and  in
                                any reply.                 I  write merely  to
IEngland. don't want
Itell you what think.'

On the same subject the Duke wrote (February 25th,

1885) to Lord Selborne :
II' cannot go up to vote for the Government.
                                                                            am
Iglad to be away, because, if voted at all, it would be
against the policy and conduct of the Government

about the Soudan.
   ' On the 10th of May last year Gladstone came to

Idine with me, and as Mrs. G. said he did so to rest,
Iavoided

   ' But
           politics.  eleventh  hour  (literally)             he     suddenly
           at the
asked me what thought of the Egyptian papers.

1881-86]                        GENERAL GORDON                                                         391

    ' In the conversation which ensued he expressed
himself determinedly and almost bitterly against any
military measures for the relief of the Soudan garrisons,
                     ahdimmit:te"d                                                     of
I Ialt'housgahid                                                                      on
                he                   the personal claim                                    Gordon.
                 to                 When you speak                                         Monday,
Ihope you won't say what you have now said to me."

   ' have never been able to sympathize with or to
do                        than  condemn this feeling and                                   policy.
    '  oIthtehriwnkiseit   was  our bounden duty, when                                     we in fact

imposed the policy of evacuating the Soudan on Egypt,
to see to it that the garrisons were withdrawn.

  I' And even restricting ourselves to the admitted

personal claim of Gordon, see no excuse, or, rather,
no sufficient justification, for the long delay from
nAop'wrIiltdotwionagsA--ucglteouaosrtlainitne.AdpertielrmthinaitngKhtaortoduomwhwaats
                                                                                                  we   are
                                                                                                   so  be

sieged that we could get no open communication with
Gordon. We ought to have concluded he was in
great danger, and if the preparations had been begun
then, we might have been at least one month earlier,
or more.

  ' It it now the greatest mess that any nation was
eve' rI  in.
                    admit  the      great  difficulties                               of the question
         fully
you had to deal with. Every alternative was beset
Iwith great objections. But there is one principle by

which hold, and which would have guided you right,
and that is our moral responsibility for the whole
position after we took the position of dictating the
policy of Egypt, and after we had been led (unavoid
habol'lydI,ninpgethrihtisatpops)rbinetcoispodlueenstdIr,oymasahyeIr  army.
                                                                          rIigfhetel
                                                                     be               or   wrong  ; but,
                                                                     do,                   to be  as im
                                                                                       it
                    vote with the Government                                          on this question
pasosIsidbilde  to  the Irish Land Bill.'
                on

   The Duke on one occasion had a long interview with
General Gordon (then Colonel Gordon) without know

392                 THE SOUDAN                                    [chap. xLiii

ing that it was the great soldier to whom he was

speaking. Colonel Gordon had called at Argyll Lodge

to consult the Duke upon a subject unconnected with

his official work. It was only after he had left that

the Duke discovered that his visitor was the Colonel

Gordon whose name was already renowned for his

great services to his country, and he always regretted

that he had not been aware of the identity of Colonel

Gordon at the time of his visit. The following account

of his impression at this interview is given in the

Duke's own words :

' It was before the time of his greatest fame, but
when in a very distant region he had done enough to
indicate what manner of man he was. There was,
however, nothing in his outward appearance to arrest
attention. There was no aspect of command. There
was no look of genius in his almost cold gray eye.
There was no indication in his calm manner of the
fires of God that were slumbering underneath, of the
                cyoentfugseendtlenonisaetu"reofwbhaictthle,waisn  equally at home
ipnowtheerfu"l                                                    the teaching of
poor children, or in the comforting of a deathbed.
Yet General Gordon was one who even then had saved
an Empire, and had rescued by his own individual
example and force of character a whole population
from massacre and devastation. Not, perhaps, very
tractable in council, sometimes almost incoherent in
                                    --boenyoendwhoallin
speculative      opinion,  he  was                                question a
born ruler      and king   of  men                                 early ages

might have been the founder of a nation, the chosen
leader of some chosen people on the way from inter
tribal wars and barbarism to peace and Government
and law.'*

   When Parliament met in the month of February,
after the tragic death of General Gordon, a vote of

             * ' Scotland as It Was and as It Is,' p 298.

1881-86]  DEFEAT OF THE GOVERNMENT                                    393

censure was carried against the Government in the

House of Lords by a majority of 121. A similar

vote in the House of Commons was defeated ; but

although the Ministry continued in office, the prestige
of the Government suffered from the discredit cast

upon Mr. Gladstone's policy in the Soudan, and
there was a general feeling of indignation throughout
the country when the inevitable result of that policy

became known.

   On June 8th, 1885, the Government was defeated
on Mr. Gladstone's Budget Bill, and a Conservative
Ministry was formed under Lord Salisbury.

          To Mr. Gladstone {July 13th, 1885).

   '"

Iapart
     Thfreomsph"etrheatofofpofalictitcaalndophiinsitoonry","  is, as  you say,
                                                                and     lose no
time in assuring you that in the sphere of fact you
Iwrite to me under a complete misunderstanding of
what said on    Friday night.  said                that       " you   had
   ' You quote   me as having
derived your opinions on Free Trade from Sir R.
Peel."
                                                   am not reported
  I I' said nothing of the kind, and                am reported as
Iin the                                            the principles of

having
          Times as   yhoauvin"ghasdaidleasron. ed
          said that
fiscal legislation, which you have carried to so great a
development, in the Cabinet of Sir Robert Peel."
     I' This is a very different thing, though even this
may not be verbally accurate.  did not mean that
Iyou had learnt them from Sir Robert Peel personally.

   simply meant that you had learnt them when you
were a member of Sir Robert Peel's Administration.
IThat this was my meaning is rendered clear from the

context, where said that when Peel's fiscal reforms
began, his Government knew little of the subject, which
is,
     and has always been, your own testimony.

394           LIBERALISM AND RADICALISM                                           [chap. xuii

    I' am the last man to have said anything in forget-
fulness of the originality of your financial genius, or of
the motive force which has always lain in it.
   ' You have, indeed, mistaken the whole point of my
reference, which had nothing to do with any distinc
tion between Sir Robert Peel and yourself. My point
is equally well served by attributing the whole work
to you, because you entered upon that work and
Icarried it on in a Conservative Administration.

   ' You know as well as do, and a great deal better,
that the leaders of the Liberal party at that time did
not take up Free Trade as a party policy till they were
forced to do so by party necessities.
   ' Sir Robert Peel's Administration was formed on
the basis of resisting the proposals of Lord John Rus
sell. My sympathies were entirely with you at that
time, and they followed you in that gradual sur
render to the Free Trade doctrines of Mr. Cobden,
which surrender made that Conservative Government
illustrious.
     '  M" yspshoelereoobfjehctistwoarys                                          that in
                                          taondenofforfcaectth"e   doctrine         afford
the                                                               we cannot

to disparage unduly any one of the great parties in the
State. They have all                      acnodntrIibhuatveed   something to the
progress of the nation,                                        always maintained
that the changes initiated by Sir Robert Peel's Ad
ministration were in the highest degree honourable to
him and to you, because they were not dictated by
Imere party interests.

   ' No one was more opposed than was to the late
hmOapevpneot,s"yitoiauonrnsdewlIf hoesnnalyidi,ftolw"loaiwts  last in power. But, as you
                                                              yisouno"winthloeokQinugeetno'sitsGfouvteurrne,
a"nddutnyottotosuitpspopratsat,n"d  and in                    thinking it is a    common
                                     assist                   it in doing right,  and not
    f'aaIcnttsihcoipapnaetdethhetishrteaotryaitre"wmoilnladnwoyhwiocrthhoenwrge."ssuhbajellctsalwaasysweblel
to                                                                                                            as
                                                                                                              as
"

able as ever to speak quite freely to each other.'

1881-86]  DISCUSSION WITH MR. GLADSTONE             395

          To Mr. Gladstone {September 28th, 1885).
I' have been intending to write to you for ages, but
I Icould not do so when we were both yachting.      was
           as it
yachting,         so happened, very much            "inGyleoaunrincgosm,"
            had   on board a copy of your
Ipany, as
Iand spent much of my time in reading articles and
I Ipapers which read thirty or forty years ago.     did
s"oauwldithlanimgmseynnsee,"             not only   for the sake
                              pleasure,  their own  sake. Some    of
                               but for                            of

them are delightful, especially, in my opinion, those
which deal with persons, biographies, and examples of

human life.
   ' On the other hand, you will understand that a few
others set up all my back, and these the oldest and
earliest of the series. However, my main desire to
write has been with reference to public affairs, in an
aspect a little above any of the momentary questions
Iof 'thYeoudarye.collect your controversy with Lowe in the
magazines about the county franchise.               never took
much interest in it, because the assimilation of the

Ifranchise seemed to me as inevitable as the sunrise or

the sunset. But was struck with the absolute con
fidence you always expressed that all fears of danger
from the new constituencies were chimerical and
absurd, and that the institutions of the country would
Ionly be strengthened all round.         never felt the same
Iconfidence, but did feel that we must all just make
Ithe best of it. . . .
                                                    got into corre
   ' So matters rested with me till
spondence with you last winter about the dispute with

the House of Lords. In one of those letters you ex
... Ipressed very solemnly and very distinctly a feeling of
prophetic uneasiness.                    was much struck and
ibme p"reossuetdofbyit,it",
                             because, although you  said you would
                             you predicted a rough   time for those
who live through the next twenty-five years. Again,
in your very last note to me, at the end of this session,

396                LIBERALISM AND RADICALISM                                [chap. xlui

you expressed the same presentiment, only adding
Nopwer,haapltshonuogthfroI mamthenocat usseusrewwhhicaht         you   cmonetaenmt,plIatcea.n"
                                                                 this
suppose that the dangers you see ahead are rather
from above than from below the level of the new

Idem' Wocerlal,cy. don't care just now to question the main
direction of the danger ; probably there are, as usual

Iin storms, two oppositely electrified thunder-clouds.

   ' But what do wish to say to you is this : that you
have not yet sounded in public any note of warning
Ior alarm.

   ' think it cannot be doubted that many of the
doctrines now popular are subversive of society as it
      hIitlhoeorktoinbeveanin                in all   civilized          countries,
Ihas                                        sound    reasoning           in favour

and
                               organized
                                for any
of those new doctrines.                     have never heard you say
       word   opwonint"inmgainnifethsteoir
one'  Your                                  "dibrerectaitohne.s  ...          of  tone

                                                                 a dignity
and a moderation of sentiment which are worthy of
Iyou, and this may affect the atmosphere                                of the dis
                                                                        that, when
cussions to come. But do think it is time
you speak in greater detail, you should give to the
future of our political path something to influence and
gui'dYeoiutr          from at
              away      fight   least       "grBoessaceornrsofri.eldism  "    has,  I
                long           with
think, thrown you into antagonism with many political
conceptions and sympathies which once had a strong
hold upon you. Yet they have certainly no less a
share of value and of truth than they ever had, and
perhaps they are more needed in face of the present
chaos   of
        is    opinion.         that the new franchise                         comes
  ' It        very unlucky
into operation contemporaneously with a universal
                   in all
dep' rIetsshioans   cost   industries. . .  .
                           me something
                                               to                write  this  letter,
Ibecause have been afraid you might think it assum
Iing. But rely on our long friendship, and on my
desire that since you have been forced by circum

1881-86]  MB. GLADSTONE AND RADICALISM                                                                      397

Istances to go into harness when know you hoped
to be out of it, your voice shall be quoted in after-
ttiome"swaasndhearviningg                      and wise direction
                            given a permanent
                           thought." '

          To Mr. Gladstone {October 24th, 1885).

' Pray do not think that the wee bit of politics in
my last letter                                                                                              what you have
          was                                                                                               wished you to
Iconstrued outof
                           intended to    convey
                                          that
                           it -- namely,
Iretire now, and refuse the lead.                 do not feel the
Ileast entitled to give any advice on that subject, and,

moreover, am far too sensible of the gravity of the
position all round to be able to make up my own mind
Iconclusively one way or the other as to what is most

desirable. But one thing can say sincerely, which
is this : that if you really mean to steer, even though
you cannot handle the ropes,   you may         --dothaantimyomu emnsaiktey
of public service, but on one  condition
your own mind and will a real force in determining
Iopinion, in leading it in right directions.

   ' What pointed out in my last was simply the fact
that, while the moderate Liberals have been swearing
by your programme, your Radical allies have not been

treating it with even decent respect, wherever it fails
Ito please them.

   ' What foresee as a danger is that they will use
your name and influence to secure the reversion of
leadership, and the future of opinion, in their own
favour.
   ' There are subjects on which silence is not enough

Itntoeoa'tpcIrhngeionvgethbneatoocfkltohygiosoicu.narsl t--heqnuae"msftuieonlnyd,samtheanottbaselesarcvh"e   one prominent
                                                                                                            generation can
                                                                                                            for itself ; that
the past gains of mankind and of the Church must be
accepted, and not re-discussed and re-proved over and
over again. Don't you think the same sound Con
servative doctrine is applicable in politics ?

398                 LIBERALISM AND RADICALISM            [chap. xliii

   ' Yet the fundamentals of personal liberty, and of
property, and of legislative authority are now all
thrown into the crucible of discussion, and the worst

her'e"sieLsetarues  taught by  the   m" eins  whom you are to lead.
Inow.                postpone  this           the word of command
         don't think this is possible, nor, if it were
Ipossible, do think it enough.                 Maesn'"s
led to   consider certain                                 minds are being
which    ought to be as        pmroupcohsal"s            open questions

                                               closed as the Deca

logue.'

         To Mr. Gladstone {December 9th, 1885).
I' cannot lose a post without asking you, What on
earth has the aristocracy been doing that you should
write such a scream of woe over them ? Has there
I ... Ibeen any sudden desertion by peers from the Liberal
party ? have heard of none.                              have not heard
of any event to account for your attack.
I I I' am where was.           agree almost wholly with the
Icreed which believe to be the creed of men like
Go'scIhheanveankdnoHwanrtiynogutonno.w intimately for some thirty-
Itwo years. During all         that  time, never but once have
   heard you say one           word  of an intolerant kind on
subjects of religion, even as regards those with whom
you differed most. Yet now, on politics, you write in
private and you speak in public as if all who differ
"ItIfrom your party must be either rogues or fools !
was not always thus."                have been just reading over
Imy old political letters.           see that in 1856-1858 you
seemed to all of us who were then in a (so-called)
Liberal Government on the point of rejoining the Con
servatives, and at that time it was believed by us that
if Herbert and Graham would have gone with you,
      would have done
     Well, why not ?           so.
Iyou'                                disapproved         of our policy,
you disliked isolation.        You

                                     could not have blamed you.
IBut nothing of this kind is happening now with any

peers, so far as know.

1881-86] THE GOVERNING CLASSES AND REFORM                              399

   ' Has it come to this, that we cannot disagree with
wholly new doctrines advocated by ill-liberals with
out being denounced by you ? Does all the moral
element in politics point in favour of these new doc

trines ?
   ' You                        out to  me in private
bias of   "onpcreopberrotkye."     Has  leadership no  against          the
                                                       bias ?          The
tactics of keeping men together for a time who are
really driving at wholly different ends ? And must
all of us who have brains of our own keep an absolute
silence when those whose views form opinion are

Iforming it in a thoroughly wrong and false direction ?

   ' have written this in a hurry, without weighing
every word, or indeed any word much. But must we
deal in these assumptions of superior rectitude and
wisdom at this moment ? We have a greater crisis
Ibefore us than any since the Revolution.

   ' am determined not to move in any direction
except towards keeping the peace with each other till
we have disposed of the common enemy.'

   To Mr. Gladstone {December 1%th, 1885).

  I' must not delay longer answering your last political
Iletter, because see that you don't in the least under
stand the attitude of mind which is my own, and which
I believe to be the attitude of many, many others.
  I' find  ingiyveoumr ylett"eruntfherigeneedproapsosseitniot nasn. d  To No. 1
Iof these                                                              consent."
INo. 2 reject, like dear old Sir R. Inglis, when he took
Ithe P.C. oath, with a deep grunt of assent, "as a

damnable doctrine." Of No. 3 can only say that
it is at least open to reply.
   ' The three propositions are these :
   ' First, that it   i"s        most important that
"                               and aristocracy should                 the old
   governing classes                                                   continue
Ito be among the leaders in progress and reform. To

this say Amen.
   ' Second, that these classes must accept whatever

400         LIBERALISM AND RADICALISM                              tcHAP. xuu

may be accepted by the " Liberal party " as con
stituting Liberalism from time to time.

  I' never can and never will accept this doctrine.
I have seen too much how it comes about that this,
that, or the other policy comes to be part of the
            for the
            what      time            being.
I Ipro' grarempmeaet  said           last year   --that,     with  the  single

exception of your own early financial reforms, which
were due to pure intellectual conviction, every item
of Liberal policy for many years has been taken up
under the pressures and inducements of some party
move. You know it was                            with the               about
                                     sIto        has been     Whigs     since ;
Protection in Peel's time.                                   so ever
avowedly so in respect to the county franchise. Tre-
            proclaimed it            openly when he       first took it up.
vel'yTahne                             theory of the
             ultramontane                                 Catholic Church
asserts a corporate consciousness which develops doc
trine under Divine guidance, and all Catholics are to
bow to its decrees as new dogmas become ripe for
definition.
   ' As regards theology, you have repudiated this
doctrine and denounced it.
yo'uYr e"t,Liibnerpaol liptiacrst,y  y"oucomseeesminttoo  have adopted it, and
                                                          a place and authority
analogous to that of the Catholic Church. Rosebery
ienxpsroemsseedspietecwh itthhisbeyaeuatri,fu"l  simplicity
                                                 Whatever     when he said
                                                             wave of public
opinion we see advancing, for Heaven's sake let us
be on the crest of it !"
  I' And this is called leadership !                      This brings   me to
                                                          your letter.
proposition No. 3 which see in                                           It is
this : that it is the withdrawal or secession or coolness
of the old Liberals that deprives you of the means of
resisting Radicalism. . . .
   ' To this let me apply my own experience, which is,
that the coolness of old Liberals has followed after,
     h"adsenvoiattipornesced"eodf,   a manifest giving way to
and                                  all kinds from the sound           heresies
and
                                                                        Liberal

creed.

1881-86]       GLADSTONE AND RADICALISM                                                                                    401

I' 1 speak from a painful personal experience.                                                                             left

you, after a great struggle, on one particular question.
IBut for months before, from the moment our Govern

ment was fairly under way, saw and felt that speeches
outside were allowed to affect opinion, and practically
to commit the Cabinet, in a direction which was not

determined by you deliberately, or by the Government
as a whole, but by the audacity and want of political
          our new associates.
          by month became
Ihon' oMuorntohf                        more                                                                   and  more  uncom

fortable, feeling that there             was   --nowhpaatraSmcootusmntendirceacll
t"iosnli,thneortinhgin."g but slip and  slide

' The outside world, knowing your great gifts and
          assumes that  you                    daircetastoo--r tihnatyoisurto                                              own
powers,     And in one                  are                                                                                 say
Cabinet.                sense           you

that when you choose to put your foot down others
wil'l
        give way.  amiability  to       colleagues,                                                            your  even  ex

       But your
treme gentleness towards them, while it has always
endeared you to them personally, has enabled men
playing their own game and sitting loose to former
codes of honour to take out of your hands to a great
Iextent the formation of opinion. . . .

   ' maintain, therefore, that it is not Liberal seces
sion that can      or  does sincerely cripple you in resisting
Radicalism.            is simply silence and sufferance on
                   It
your own part, a too passive attitude, which does not
do justice to the immense influence over opinion which
Icy"aoLlu'liibTnahegrereahlicmaa"sspseauilsbfmlepa"tiCogoofnrneesaxetterlhyrvataitntsiguv.epeveer. "iroy.ris.
                                                                                                               man calling himself
                                                                                                               being to every man
                                                                                                               an assumption which
see to be at variance with fact and truth.'

vol. n.                                                                                                              26

        CHAPTER XLIV

                    1881-93

        HOME RULE

The greater part of the Duke's political correspon
dence during the critical years immediately following
the introduction of the Irish Land Act had reference

to affairs in Ireland. The policy of the Government
made the gulf between him and his former leader an
ever widening one. The Duke had acquiesced in the
Land Act of 1870 in order to avert social disturbance,

which would have been an even greater evil ; but he
could not consent to be a party to the Act of 1881,

and he had accordingly resigned.

To Mr. Gladstone he wrote (December 6th, 1881) :

I' Those who are alarmed, as am, by the condition of
Ireland have, in the meantime, to support the Govern
Iment in suppressing the reign of ruffianism.
                                               may
Ithink, and do think, that where the disease is a
universal unsettlement of mind and of opinion it was
a terrible aggravation of the evil to speak and to
legislate in a way so alien to clear and definite concep
Itions on the fundamental principles on which society

rests. Some day may have something to put down
I Ion this aspect of the question. But in the meantime

  wish to be silent if can, and to limit my endeavours
to prevent the spread of the mischief which has been

done.'

        402

1881-93]      CONCESSIONS TO IRELAND                                     403

  I'      To Mr. Gladstone {May 29th, 1882).

men    wkhnoowareyo"uupseitn  a  sbmalalollonva"lu;eneovnertthheelesosp,iniitonmaoyf
                              a

Inot always   be a bad post of observation.          only            on  one
    '  write  one line to express an opinion
point, and that is, the immense importance, as it
seems to me, of not giving way on the duration of the
new law for the protection of life and property in
Ireland. Be the apparent success of any such law
what it may, it cannot effect the work of settlement
in one year,  and the annual debates
which cut so  deep are a supreme evil.         onIt  questions
despairing to see how                                 is really
                                               the necessity
of  such measures are            afIffectthederebyarethefoudraoilry   bulletin
of  crime from Ireland.                                              five con

secutive days without a murder or other              "coOnhs,pitchuionugss
                              to breathe, and        the fear of
outrage, people begin                          say,
are on the mend !"            It is possible   that
Ithis new measure may of itself, for a moment, produce

an abatement. But should have no confidence in
its continuance, and if the whole controversy is to be
renewed from session to session, there will be no
paralysis of crime, but only a too certain paralysis of
IParliament.

   ' have heard no rumour of any intention on your
part to give way on this point. But it is just the sort
of compromise which the Radical section will be apt
to grasp at and to press upon you.'

   Shortly afterwards the Duke, in a letter to Lord
Dufferin (August 1st, 1882), implied that he did not
exonerate his former leader from all responsibility for
Irish disorders :

  I' believe Gladstone eases his conscience by the

argument that had it not been for the Irish Land Bill

there would have been a universal strike against rent
all over Ireland, and that he has saved the landlords

                                                                                        26--2

404                      HOME RULE                                 [chap. xtiv

from a great social revolution at the sacrifice of an

Iave' rTahgies  20  per cent.       except       that  it  omits   the  fact
                is  all very well,
(as believe it to be) that the social revolution was
greatly due to the language of his own party, and (at
least) to his complicity by silence.'

                To Mr. Gladstone {April 25th, 1886).
I' The only temptation feel to Home Rule is the
mteimnsptetar.tionIfofexgpeetrtiimngentrsid  of  the  Parnellites  at West
                                             in  the  government    of man
kind were a legitimate amusement it would be most
Iewt"enocpt'tueliBuorldtnunadtiinne"idorn.ungm"leguecctAahoinnlln.sroteahtetihsiewnswrdhhuooatluuhgtlleaddfnobilanellielelmaossvuwoecsahttnthhapeemIlmramiuysshtionwfrgPiettaehr!ryliatao"mgpeotronroydt
I Iconscience. At least, cannot.                       believe in what
Iyou told us of the Parnellite party in 1881 and 1882,

and up to a more recent date, and have seen no
evidence whatever to justify or account for any change

of opinion. This being so, it is with me a matter of
personal honour not to hand over Ireland to their
sway, merely to get rid of a bad crew from Westminster,
or to look on upon an experiment which will involve
the liberty and property of our fellow-countrymen.'

                To Mr. Gladstone {May 4th, 1886).

   ' Your       letter of April 29th only reached me                    thIist
                having been forwarded from Scotland.
morning,
Ihas surprised me very much, because, until received
Iit, did not know that any doubt could be entertained
as to the truth     o"f   my   statement that              up to the last
General Election         you  had been loud in             your denuncia
tion of the Parnellite policy, both social and political."

IYou now ask me for a proof of this allegation, and
Iat once respond to your appeal in so far as, on the

instant, have the materials for doing so at hand.

1881-93]                 THE PABNELLITE POLICY                  405

    ' " The Parnellite policy " has been expressed in a
thousand   different forms from the                      commencement of
your last                                                exceedingly active
           Government. It became
and pronounced after you had accomplished the passing

of your last Land Act. In defence of your own Act,
you took the field against the Parnellite policy, de
nouncing its author and all his works in many speeches,
which were as unsparing in their severity as they were
tru'tThhfuesl einspteheecihresdeswcerirpetiodne.livered chiefly in the year
1881, but the substance of them was repeated in the
House of Commons on the 25th of May, 1882, in a
speech in which you denounced the Parnellite policy
in the person of Mr. Dillon, and in which you described
hdiesmadnedma"ndthaftonr othBeillaobfanrdeosntmraeinntt    of   coercion as a
                                                         is to  be introduced

aga' iFnrsotmantyhiesvidl-adtoeertso  whatever   in Ireland."   Govern
                                      the close  of your last

ment, the Parnellite policy was under the strong
restraints which you then placed upon it, and both the
legislative and executive action of your Government
sup' eWrsheednedyothuer  necessity of farther speeches.
                         last Government fell, and when,        a few

Imonths afterwards, the General Election came on, you

appealed, think in more speeches than one, to the
Liberal party to give you such a following as might
enable you to command an ample majority even over
a Tory and Parnellite combination.

  I I' have not now before me all those speeches, but
have a distinct recollection of one in which you said

you would not trust your own party itself, if it were
placed in such circumstances of temptation as to have
to  lean   upon the      support of the Parnellite party.
    ' The   severity     of tone in which you spoke of
                                                                the

Parnellites, when occasion led you to do so, did not,
to my eye, present any contrast or even any change
since your speeches of 1881 and 1882. There seemed
to be a perfect continuity, and in one speech, delivered,

I Ithink, in Edinburgh on November 23rd, 1885, find

406         HOME RULE                                           [chap. iuv

a passage in which you spoke almost bitterly of the
personal power, amounting to compulsion, which you
expected Mr. Parnell to exercise over voters in Ireland.
No one could have anticipated from that speech that
Iyou shouldnaow"                            late election in Ireland

as specially
            cchoanrsatcitteurtiizoenatlhe"  expression     o"f  national
opinion. The words refer to                 are these           Let him
                                                        :

order every Irishman to vote against every Liberal,
let him pour out floods of vituperation and abuse, yet
he and his party know perfectly well that all these
actions, all these words, will not have the slightest
effect on the policy of the Liberal party."
   ' Taking these words in connection with a whole
series of transactions, perfectly continuous, through the
Iwhole period of your last Government, and in con

nection with the farther fact that, as far as know,
you had never given any indication of any change of
Iopinion respecting the Parnellite policy, submit to
Iwyasoesureerrtlifooaunirdnetihnssayt othu"arutdpentouhantdchiearteiloaanssot n"aGobeflnetehragatrl opuEnoledlisccyti.of'onr  my
                                                                                                                              you

   When Mr. Gladstone, in reply to this communication,

argued that his silence between 1882 and 1885 regard
ing the Irish members showed that he did not entertain
such opinions as the Duke ascribed to him previous to
the opening of the Home Rule question, the Duke
replied, first in a personal letter, and secondly in a

letter to the Pall Mall Gazette, both of the date

May 6th, 1886.

                         To Mr. Gladstone.
   ' Your letter places me in a difficulty, because it
puts a value and a significance on your silence between
1882 and November, 1885, which you may have a
perfect right to place upon it, but which, on the other
hand, no one else can be expected to recognise who was
not in the secrets of your mind.

1881-93]         mr. Gladstone's silence       407

   ' The natural course would be to publish our corre

Ispondence with a reply from me to your last. But
don't think that your letters were written with this in
Iview, or in terms exactly suitable for publication.

   ' Therefore, think my best course would be to write

a letter to the Pall Mall setting forth the grounds of
my original allegation, and then simply admitting as
a fact that during the interval between the release of
Mr. Parnell and the late election you had abstained
Ifrom

wish
denunciations of Mr. Parnell and his party.    I
to avoid personal controversy with you, but
cannot give up my contention that your party and old
friends have just ground of complaint against your

Ileadership on the Irish question, and need not say
Ithat this complaint regard as much deepened and
aggravated since you have denounced us all in your
late manifesto.
I' But for any sake let us keep free from private
and personal controversy.          therefore confine myself
strictly to the acknowledgment of a fact, leaving all
further comment to public utterances on a public
matter.
I Ito
' send you       now   a copy  of  the letter  am prepared
write to the     Pall  Mall.       you prefer  a publication
                               If
Iof the whole correspondence, could easily turn it, in
form, into a letter to you.'

   A letter followed (May 9th, 1886) in which the Duke

acknowledged his blindness as to the meaning of that

silence. It was not the silence which meant the

continuance of old opinions, but the silence that

covered a profound change of opinion :

' We may have all been moles and bats not to read
between the lines both of your abstentions and of your
Iutterances. But, as a matter of fact, we were all
absolutely blind;  and  though     linetshoouf g"htlocyaolugomveigrnht
                   new  on the
propose something
ment," not one of us outsiders had the slightest

408               HOME RULE                     [chap. xliv

conception that you would think of a separate Parlia
ment. This is as much a fact as your interval of
silence towards Parnell.

  I' There is only one general consideration which
wish you to bear in mind, and that is that un
avoidably the controversy must turn largely on your
utterances, for the simple reason that you are almost
the only moving force in the political changes of the

day. . .   .   a  condition  of  things  which  distresses  me
   ' This
           is
Iextremely, because of the personality which it imports
into politics.    hope you will recognise the fact of
your own pre-eminence leaving us no choice whatever.
When you fire red-hot shot into all who differ from
you on this great constitutional contest, we must be
free to reply with all the arms in our hands.'

   The Duke did not allow his opposition to Mr. Glad
stone's Home Rule policy to interfere with his personal

friendship for his old leader. In letters to Mr. Bright
he expresses his feelings on this subject, knowing that

they would be understood and shared by one who was
also strongly attached to Mr. Gladstone.

         To Mr. John Bright {January 3rd, 1887).

  I' have several times, during the last year, been

on the point of writing to you, if only to tell you of
the satisfaction it gave me to see the line you have
taken in the great controversy which our common
Ifriend   Gladstone has sprung upon us all.
     '   observe with entire sympathy the       reluctance  you
have expressed to speak all your mind upon the
subject, because of your old love and regard for him.

I have felt this most deeply, perhaps all the more
Ibecause in private life have had more constant and
intimate relations with him than with any other for
the space now of nearly forty years.

1881-93]     LETTER FROM MR. BRIGHT                          409

I' But hold that both the nature of the question at
issue, and the intemperate manner in which he has
handled it, as well as the freedom he has taken himself
in dealing with his old friends, set us all in a position
of equal freedom to deal with both the question on
its merits and with the tactics he has brought to bear
Iupo' nWiitt.h this feeling wrote to him last spring a passage
I I(in' a
     letter) of which        enclose a copy.        result.  He has
     confess to much       anxiety about the

the advantage of an alliance with a powerful disinte
grating element in the heart         soafy,th"eAHnoyuthseingofbCeottmermtohnasn.
People are much inclined to
a continuance of this." '

          From Mr. Bright {January 9th, 1887).

  ' My dear Duke of Argyll,

      I' must thank you for your friendly and
Iinteresting letter, and yet know not what to say in
rep'lyT.here seems to me in Mr. Gladstone's conduct on
Ithis great question so much that is doubtful and

blameable that find myself unable to discuss it in
public without saying what must be as painful to him
Ito'heaarmoratnoxiroeuasd  as it would be to me to speak.
                           about the result. The weakness    of

the Government as a Government is apparent, and
their weakness in the House of Commons on the
ITreasury Bench is deplorable.             wish Lord Salisbury
Iwere

too,
     in our  tHhoeusceomininsgtea"d   of in yours.     am anxious,
     about                           conference."   Harcourt and
IMorley will speak and act for their chief, and may have
positive instructions ; but           do   not know   for    whItomis
Chamberlain and Trevelyan            will  speak and  act.
not said that they have consulted Lord Hartington,
and if the result of the conference is to bring Chamber
lain and Trevelyan to support Mr. Gladstone as against
the Government on questions apart from Irish affairs,

410                        HOME RULE                             [chap. xliv

then we may not have a change of Government, but
another dissolution of Parliament, and confusion worse

confounded. Mr. Gladstone has broken up three
IGovernments and brought about two dissolutions
within twelve months.               know of no Minister or
           in our history  who has done so much and
statesman  much disorder.
caused so                   If the constituencies think

Ireland only is in fault, they may, in disgust, give Ireland
what her rebel party ask for ; if they discover that their
great statesman is in fault, they may in a more signal
Imanner withdraw their confidence from him.
   ' As to the  Land  laqsut eAsctito--n, Tredvoelynaont'sseeor  what   more
can be done.    The                                               Lord  Ash
bourne's --is
                extravagant in its concessions to the
tenants, and hardly less so to the landowners, and it
makes progress ; and but for the rebel conspirators

Iit would do all that is necessary to enlarge the number

of proprietors, which for thirty years past have urged
   the true policy in   dealing with  Ireland.
'Ias  have lately been   reading the  lives of Wolfe             Tone,

Lord Edward Fitzgerald, and Robert Emmet. They
wbuetreI  mad enough in    pursuit   of an impossible            object,
          think they were  better   men than Parnell             and his
immediate followers. They did not seek to destroy
all sense of honour and honesty, nor did they succeed
so completely in demoralizing the people who trusted
Iin them.

   ' thank you for your good wishes. Pray accept
mine for yourself and yours.'

 I To Mr. Bright {January Uth, 1887).

' feel all the difficulty you feel as to speaking or
writing quite freely, when, of necessity, much that has
           must be directed against our old friend.
           would very earnestly impress on you,
to be said                                                              as

  I I' But
try to do on myself, that the interests of truth and
rntiiogowhntseao"tusmsntueassktse,naoartendbveetharylalotwmeeuvdcehntocoousntracnebdrenseitnd"oipunar rawtlilaaylt.haaftfecis

1881-93]     LETTER TO THE ' TIMES '                                411

   ' Gladstone himself certainly sets an example of
extreme freedom in dealing with all who refuse to
follow him.'

   From time to time the Duke delivered powerful

speeches, both in Parliament and in the country, on
the question occupying public attention. He also
wrote occasional letters to the Times, dealing with con

troversial points. Two letters are here quoted on the
subject of Home Rule :

          To the ' Times ' {December 26th, 1885).

' There is no more striking proof of the unprepared-
ness of the public mind on the whole of this subject
than   the"  innocence with which we see                      the
asked   :    Why should we not let the                              question
                                                             Irish   manage
their own affairs ?" O sancta simplicitas ! The as
sumption that we can solve as easily as a child's puzzle
one of the most difficult, intricate, and complicated
problems that can arise in the science of human govern
ment is an assumption indicative of that profound
ignorance which does not see even the first conditions
of the problem. To perambulate the marches of local
authority, to draw the line between that which is and
that which is not of imperial interest in a society
which     is to be  oonfethGeovweorrnlmd --entthisoviesr     its own people,
and in    the face                                        a   work requiring

the very highest skill and the very deepest insight.
Hitherto none of us have been called to deal with it,
or even to think of it. Is it possible that men's
thoughts have become so loose and slovenly on the
functions of government that foreign affairs are roughly
assumed to be all that is of Imperial interest ? Is it
possible that our notions of Empire are so degenerate
that we do not think it an essential part of it that all
the subjects of the Crown should live under equal laws,
and be assured of the primary conditions of human
freedom ? Do not let us be led astray by false analo

412                HOME RULE                     [chap. xuv

gies. Our relations with our colonies have nothing to
do with it. Those of them to whom self-government

has been committed are virtually independent States.
INothing but bonds of sentiment unite us, together
with some,         hope, growing feelings of a common
interest. These in time may produce a Federal Con
stitution of some sort. But the inexorable conditions

of physical geography, as well as social and economic
differences of condition, forbid that in the strictest and
fullest sense we can ever form with them one Govern
ment. The same inexorable conditions of physical
geography are reversed in the case of Ireland, and
absolutely demand there a kind and a measure of con
nection which is impossible farther off. The United
States alone, of all the nations of the earth, must in
this matter be our great exemplar. Let us consider
for a moment some of the differences between that
case and the case of Home Rule in Ireland.
   ' The spirit in which all human institutions are con
ceived at first, and in which they are worked from in
side, makes the whole difference between success and

failure. If the spirit be one not of attraction but of

repulsion, it is more than questionable whether any
mere machinery will keep nations or States together.
But, again, look at the sort of machinery which, so
far as we know, has as yet been contemplated. Sup
posing the lines to be well and firmly drawn between
affairs which are Irish only and affairs which concern
the honour and interests of the Empire, who is to
enforce respect to those lines ? Who is to keep the
marches ? There is to be a veto, it is said, or assent
is to be required to Irish Acts, given by an Imperial
                   an Imperial Parliament.
Cabinet     or by  man imagine that it will  be  possible  to
    ' Does   any

keep this question of assent or of veto out of the region
of party politics at Westminster ? And if not, then
how much of the time of Parliament would continue
to be occupied by Irish affairs ? Would not one or
other of two things inevitably happen : either that we

1881-93]       LETTER TO THE ' TIMES '       413

should wash our hands of all responsibility and give
our assent as a matter of course to everything done,
however unwise and however unjust, or else that we
should keep our responsibility at the cost of continual
strain and of increasing exasperation ?

   'And, then, have we considered what sort of measures
we should assuredly have either to assent to or resist ?
Protective duties and a hostile tariff have been an
nounced already. One eminent Liberal is said to have
threatened retaliatory duties on our side as inevitable
in such a case. This is a concession to fair trade which
curiously illustrates the reaction on our own politics
which will certainly arise.

  I' Then, again, there is the whole question of religion.

For my own part, think we have sinned in this matter.
Both as regards the priesthood and as regards denomi
nwahtaitonisalcaelldeudcaati"onC, atwheolihcav"epefooprgleo.tteOnutrhvaot luIrnetlaarnydismis
and our ultra-Protestantism have combined to force

*****upon them what passes for Liberalism in these matters.
' Again, on questions lying deeper still --on the funda
mental principles of all civilized societies, questions
affecting the  freedom   of industry,  etvheerysefcourrmity--oarfeprwoe
perty and of   personal   liberty in
prepared to take even that share of responsibility
which is implied in a formal assent to all that may be
done in Ireland ? Is there no share of our own honour
involved ? Are we to confess that what the British
Constitution has hitherto guaranteed to all its people
we are henceforth unable or unwilling to maintain ?
And then let us ask further, Are we to make this con
fession, not only with respect to Ireland, but with
respect to Great Britain also ? Are Irish members,
          being supreme over   their         affairs, to be
besides   to hold the balance  over    own
allowed                                ours  too ? If not,
then we must have a new Constitution, framed for the
Parliament at Westminster, as well as for the Parlia
ment in Dublin. The line of division between that

414                  HOME RULE           [chap. xliv

which is imperial and that which is not imperial must
be drawn again, so as to exclude here that which is
included across the water. Who is sufficient for these
things ? Is there any party to which we can, with the
least confidence, commit a task so entirely novel, so
absolutely without precedent or preparation in any
part of our national history ? Nay, it may well be

*****asked whether in the very nature of things such a

problem is not insoluble, and whether the only possible
result of attempting such impossible combinations
would not be an infinite preference on both sides in
favour of total separation ?
   ' Of one thing the Irish may be sure, and that is
that the estrangement is all on their side. There is
nobody of the least consequence on this side of the
Channel who does not desire above all things in
domestic politics to see them prosperous and con
tented, sharing in the glories and in the duties of an
Empire which so many Irishmen have nobly served
in Parliament, and in the field, and in the walks of
literature and of science.'

     To the ' Times ' {June Uth, 1886).

' If ever there was a work requiring more absolutely
than another the very highest gifts of intellect and
of reason, the widest historical knowledge, and the

severest training in the observation of affairs, it is the
work undertaken by the Ministry with a light heart
and without time to prepare their own minds or the
mind of the nation.
   ' The result
presumption.     hIaswicllornreostposanydewd ithwitMhr.suScphurlgeevoitny  and
                                                                           that
the scheme is one which might have emanated from
the brain of a madman. This is an exaggeration of the
pulpit or of the platform. But it may certainly be
said with absolute truth that the scheme shows none
of the great mental powers and gifts which are alone

1881-93]             LETTER TO THE ' TIMES '                       415

adequate to deal with such a task. If it had been
necessary to draw up a paper Constitution for some
perfectly new community, good-natured, sweet-blooded,
and willing to be subordinate to Great Britain, with
no previous history, no passions, no animosities, and
no special temptations to violent conduct or to an
archical opinions, the Constitution drawn up by the
Ministry might have been about as good and about as
bad as the most commonplace politician could have
invented in a week. Such ingenuity as there is seems
to be drawn from ecclesiastical organizations, whose
objects, difficulties, and conditions are all absolutely
Idifferent from those of a Parliamentary Assembly.
    '   do not stop,  bhyowaeuvtehro, rittoy.argIufe   this  matter.   It
       been settled                                   there   be such
has                                                                     a

thing as authority in the political instincts and
reason of an ancient and a glorious political society,
it has pronounced in this case, by almost universal
consent, against the whole of the confused machinery
and the         unworkable     devices    otrfueth--e thMatininsotrtyt.weMntry.
Bright' s      declaration is  literally

men in the House of Commons would have ever stopped

to look at it if it had come from any other work

ma'nT. he.  .    .

               very  first  thing  which  the         Ministry  "  set its
                                                      a new        funda
prentice hand to do was to devise
mental law," a new written Constitution for Great

Britain and Ireland. At some six weeks' notice this
wonderful structure was elaborated within some room
Iin Downing Street by a few selected Ministers, and

with, suppose, a draftsman. With this preparation
and with this apparatus, the Constitution, which has
been growing for a thousand years, is pulled about and
meddled with in the very keystones of all its arches.
The structure of Parliament, the powers of taxing, the
principles of representation, the relations between
executive and legislative functions, the power of local
bodies to dispose of the liberty and property of the
Queen's subjects on principles unknown to the civilized

416                  HOME BULE                                          [chap. xliv

laws of our ancient imperial realm, the exclusion of a
fwuhnoclteionksingdoof mGofvroemrnmaellntco--ncaelrlnthinesesomdeeepof
                                                                        the highest
                                                                        things and
foundation-stones of every political society are tossed
about and tumbled with a light heart, and with as
light a hand, until the result is presented to our
astonished gaze in one great shambling and unsightly
building, which we are to adopt and accept as a sub
stitute for the ancient palaces of a Constitution known
and loved for centuries. . . .
   ' The intellectual qualities exhibited in these sayings
Iand proposals do indeed excite our astonishment.

But venture to think they do not challenge our
admiration, still less do they attract our confidence.
And surely our misgivings must increase when we
encounter another fact, which is this, that the master
builder of this new erection tells us that he is unable
to solve the one great problem which he took in hand.
That problem is to provide for two great political
bodies a place of common habitation, but of separate
and adjusted work. For this purpose it is the first
necessity of a successful organization that the scheme
should indicate with some tolerable clearness that
which is to be done by one of them and that which
is to be left to the other. The distinction between
what is local and what is imperial is of the essence of
"Ithe whole scheme. Yet, strange to say, the Prime
Minister declares :  have thought much, reasoned
much, and inquired much, with regard to that dis
Itinction.   had hoped it might be possible to draw
Ia distinction, and have arrived at the conclusion
Ithat it cannot be drawn.  believe it passes the wit
Iof man ; at any rate, it passes, not my wit alone, but

the wit of many with whom have communicated."
This would at least be modest if it were also con
sistent. But here, again, we are met by another
wonder. The distinction which it is impossible to
draw at Westminster is assumed to be easily drawn
in Dublin.'

1881-93]        OPINIONS ON HOME RULE                     417

   The first of these letters to the Times is referred
to by the Duke of Bedford and Mr. Goschen as fol
lows :

   ' Dear Duke of Argyll,

          ' Let me thank you most gratefully for having

spoken at a moment when action is becoming neces
sary and requires guidance. Timemus populum !

Plebs lapidabit nos I appears to paralyze our poli

Iticians.

   ' was looking about for a leader when you wrote.

                                     ' Yours very 'trBuelyd,ford.'

            From Mr. Goschen {December 31st, 1885).
I' admire your letter to the Times immensely, and
Iagree with every word of it.         think it cannot fail
to make an impression. The point now is to awaken
the country to what the Irish demands really mean,
                       what it means  to allow the Irish to

                       own affairs."  saw some merchants,
Ia"nmd atnoagaenathlyezier
etc., from Dublin yesterday, who came over to see
Ime, and expose the dangers of Home Rule from their
point of view.         told them that nothing was more
important than to convince the English public that
the question is not one of landowning merely, that
there are menaces, not only to unpopular landlords,
but     to                       kind. . . .
            property   of every  thing if within  a  few  weeks
     '  It  will be a   curious

of the meeting of Parliament Gladstone should be
speaking on one side and the rest of us on the other
as to the Irish demands.'

These words indicate the increasing divergence of

opinion which was separating Mr. Gladstone from

many of his former supporters. The Duke always

repudiated the idea that the Unionists were dis

sentients ; he looked upon Mr. Gladstone and those
vol. n.
                                                     27

418                 HOME RULE                                     [chap. xliv

who adhered to him as having abandoned the old

Liberal faith. This is the subject of a small volume

which was published by the Duke in 1888, entitled

'The New British Constitution and its Master

Builders,' from which the following passage is quoted :

' A few leaders of the Liberal party have fallen with
him under this  thfoermes--eernelutecmtapntat,tionh.elp.les. s.,  They have
carried with                                                      struggling,

distracted,  priomtepsotritnagn,cean--d   openly  dissentient on points
of primary                               a large   number of old ad
herents. The former leader has now to confess that
      following is  "a shattered and disunited                    party."
his  is so because                                                the im
                     they have been led against
It
pregnable batteries of truth and duty. Fortunately,
not a few of our former leaders, and some of the very
best, are our leaders still. Our former friends have
left the great cause in which we fought together.

From that cause they have been deserters. In so
deserting, we think they have been untrue to the
great traditions of public virtue, without which freedom
and liberty are but empty names. We remain con
sentient with those traditions. We are consentient
with all the great men and with all the great generations
which have built up the polity of one great Empire out
of three united kingdoms. We shall respond to any
and to every appeal which may be made to us to con
sider this tremendous subject of Irish government in
a reverent and a reasonable spirit. Nothing should be

refused to Ireland which in itself is just. In educa
tion, for example, as one great subject of local govern
ment,! think we have failed, and Mr. Gladstone has
failed, conspicuously. But we recognise no such
reasonable spirit in the  demand of               taonythema"nvoerryofroaontys
party to be allowed to    dig down
of our Constitution, both civil and political," upon
a claim of purely personal confidence. Still less do
we recognise any such spirit in a haughty refusal to
tell us what they mean to do or to propose when they

1881-93]  CRIMINAL LAW AMENDMENT BILL                                           419

have been hoisted into power. Our demand to know
all this beforehand is a demand upon which it is our
hahdsaiugvthaeyesat"tolstoridnaedspgiusrt"tei.ee.ss.eTemhIfIastt   it should be refused and resisted
                                                                  to us to be unjustifiable in the
                                                                  party leaders have rights, they
                                                                  is not one of those duties to start
suddenly upon the people of this country a new paper
Constitution, which its author admits to involve

principles as absolutely novel to them as the differential
calculus. We have now had time to look at that
production, round and round ; we see that it involves
proposals which offend our reason, and which revolt
our conscience.'

   Speaking (July 15th, 1887) in the House of Lords,
in support of the second reading of the Criminal Law
(Ireland) Amendment Bill, the Duke said :

   ' No man can deny the state of things in Ireland,

whether or not he may choose to call it terrorism.
Terrorism has been rendered so perfect that crime has
ceased to be necessary. Is there any remedy for this
Istate of things ?                                                listened carefully to the speech
Iof my noble friend the leader of the Opposition, as
t"hWoueghhtavhee   might say what they say                              out of  doors :
                  got a remedy in our pockets                            which
                                                                                will do
everything." He did not say that he had a measure

Iwhich would render this Bill unnecessary, but wish
to press this point upon your Lordships' attention,
that on the part of the leader of the Opposition there
is no alternative scheme for the redemption of the
people from the thraldom                                                the system under which
they are now suffering.                                           Iotf  is most important that
the public should understand that there was a scheme :
that two Bills were produced, the production of which
ended in the complete defeat of the Government in
Parliament. The very first thing they did after
Iwards was to announce that both those Bills were
gone.     say that they are not entitled to claim that
                                                                        27--2

420                   HOME RULE                      [chap. xliv

they  have   anpharlatesrensa--tivaembsigchueomuse.    They have vague
and   empty                                          phrases which no
human being can understand. But it is most im
portant the public should understand there is no
rival scheme before the country to put an end to the
crime in    Ireland.  --Wonee  had   two most remarkable
           last week           by   Mr. Gladstone and the
speeches
other by Mr. John Morley, the two great apostles and
prophets of the Parnellite party in this country. Both
clearly show that the great principles on which the
         ?o--Wf ewMhre.dtohGelarndosttthoenkreneowwisa--s acbnaanysesadcnhhyeamvheeumbbeaeenfnoreabbeaiunnsg.
scheme

doned.
tell us
But, on the other hand, we do know that the Irish
members will be retained in this Parliament. That
is at the root of the whole question. Most people will
think that Mr. Gladstone was originally quite right,
that if there was to be a separate Parliament in Ireland,
we ought not to have the Irish members here to dictate
to us. But Mr. Gladstone has now made an announce
ment on the subject, though in very ambiguous terms.
Poor Mr. John Morley undertook to explain the other
day what Mr. Gladstone said at Swansea, and the
upshot of his explanation was that Mr. Gladstone's
proposal was now the converse of that made by Mr.
Whitbread. That is all we know of that part of the
scheme which lies at the root of the whole business.
But they           pahragsreeatisde"atlheto                      A
favourite  resort                             general phrases.
           stock                             management by      the
Irish people of exclusively Irish affairs." There are
a great many people who open their eyes wide and
believe that they have got something better than the
east wind when they have swallowed that phrase.
They offer no definition of Irish affairs, and we do not
know what they mean by it. Is it purely an Irish
affair that Irishmen should hold the property to which
they are entitled ? Is it purely an Irish affair that,
under the Imperial Government of the Queen, every
Irishman should be free to dispose of his property and

1881-93]  SPEECH IN HOUSE OF LORDS    421

his liberty as he pleases, and not as a secret con
spiracy pleases ? Then we ask you to explain what
is an exclusively Irish subject. When the Land Bill
was before the House of Commons it was pointed out
in a powerful speech by Sir Henry James that under
IMr. Gladstone's scheme every part of the Land Act
of 1881 might be put in question.     understand

IMr. Gladstone to say that that was a mistake, and
was not so intended.  believe the truth was that
there is to be a clause prohibiting the Irish Parlia
Iment from dealing with the landlords. Surely these
things ought to be made known.        should like to
know whether it is a purely Irish question whether
men who hold land under charters dating from the
Itwelfth and thirteenth centuries are to be deprived
of their property.    certainly should regard that
question as one of imperial and not of merely Irish
interest. We have a state of things in Ireland that
is terrible, and the leaders of the Opposition do not
pretend that they have a scheme that will put an end
Ito that state of things.
   ' am not now talking of mere changes of opinion
which must happen from time to time. There has
been a complete forgetfulness of everything, a com
plete repudiation of those things which go down deep
to the very foundation of society. We have seen
during the last eighteen months four or five gentlemen
sitting round a green table at Westminster and
drawing up a new edition of the British Constitution.
Such a thing has never been adopted before, go
back as far in our history as you please. There
have been no brand-new constitutions given to
the foundation of society ; and it was, therefore,
unprecedented, unjustifiable, immeasurable presump
Ition. The greatest of Mr. Gladstone's construc
tions was the famous Budget of 1853.  do not deny
that the measure disestablishing the Irish Church
showed immense constructive power, but in that case
he had to deal with a Christian Church, and all he

422                   HOME RULE              [chap. xliv

had to do was to divide the spoil. In this case he
has attempted to reconstitute a whole Constitution,
to make a brand-new system of government for the
I Ithree kingdoms. Not even he was adequate to these
things.    shall vote for this Bill, because wish to
secure for every individual of the Irish people the
Iliberties which have come down to them under the

imperial system. wish that every peasant in Donegal
and every peasant in Kerry shall be free under an
imperial system to dispose of his property and of his
labour as he thinks fit.'

From another speech in the House of Lords (July

12th, 1888) :

' Great constitutional questions are now being agi
Itated. It            little
                      then
the leaders            the
should say,
            is now             leLmaibdoeerrersalothfpatanhretytLw--ibooerry,aelararpstahrestiryn, c--e
             of the
            a few of
announced their sudden conversion to the Parnellite
doctrine with regard to the government of Ireland.
IMy Lords, am not going to deny the legitimacy of
Iany sudden conversion of that

point out that there had been,
                               kind ;        asonI lyknwoiwsh,      to
                               so far                               no

precedent whatever in our political history for so
sudden and         violent a    conversion.     Many of
old enough     so   recollect                too many    us         are
                               -- perhaps                of         us,
               to
            to the hint
according  of the House    given by    mnyighnto--bleperfhriaepnsd   on
this side                   the other                               too

many of    us  are old enough to remember     two        --otohneer
occasions  in  which great conversions took  place

on Catholic emancipation and one on the repeal of the
Corn Laws. Neither of these conversions could com
pare with this. On both those great questions there
had been long preparation and discussion. Very
bitter feelings, no doubt, were aroused by the conver
sion in both cases, but there was in them nothing so
sudden, nothing so violent, nothing that affected such
fundamental questions as this sudden conversion of

1881-93] MR. GLADSTONE AND PARNELLITE POLICY 423

Mr. Gladstone and two or three of his friends to the

I IParnellite policy with respect to Ireland. Again, my

Lords, say am not going to contest the perfect good
faith in which that conversion was effected. We all
know that in the history of the world there have been
many sudden conversions. The Christian Church
itself affords a notable instance of the sudden con
version of a man who was undoubtedly one of the
greatest men that ever lived in the world, and who
was suddenly converted to preach a doctrine which,
during the preceding part of his life, he had always
done his best to destroy. That man was converted
by a light which shone upon him. The light which
shone upon him was a light from heaven, and the
course of eighteen hundred years has gone far to prove
the truth of his conversion. The light which shone
upon my right hon. friend and a few of his colleagues
was a light which shone from the Irish members of the
House of Commons, and we may be pardoned for
doubting whether the localities from which the light
shone in these two cases of sudden conversion were
identical. The change proposed by Mr. Gladstone
involved the disintegration of the Empire. That is
disputed, but there is one thing which is not disputed,
and that is that it did mean the breaking up of the
Imperial Parliament. The breaking up of our Im
perial Parliament is directly involved in the change
which was so suddenly determined upon two years
ago, and the breaking up of our Imperial Parliament

Iinvolves the making of a new Constitution. My Lords,

   ventured some time since, through one of the usual
channels of information, to warn my countrymen of
two things : the first was that such a change would
involve the drawing up of a new Constitution, and
nothing short of it ; and the second was that there
 was no man and no group of men competent for such
 work. The Constitution of this country, my Lords,
 has not been made : it has grown. During eight
 hundred or nine hundred years, by additions here and

424                  HOME RULE          [chap. hiv

additions there, by developments here and develop
ments there, from very small beginnings it has been

built up into the glorious structure we now have. All
our revolutions have been in the nature of develop

ments ; all our revolutions have been the assertions
of a previous right. None of our statesmen are or
Ihave been accustomed to, or are capable of, thinking
out and drawing up a new Constitution.  do not for
a moment deny that the Constitution drawn up by
IMr. Gladstone was exceedingly clever and exceedingly

ingenious, and, what is more, will venture to say that
*****Iit is a great deal better than any of the other reforms
which     have   since seen  diondwiciathtedtheinqutheestinonew. spIatpewras.s
But that   has  nothing to
an unworkable Constitution ; it was a paper Constitu
tion ; it was a Constitution made of pasteboard, in
capable of resisting the tremendous pressure of human
passions which would have been brought to bear on it.

  I' One word more with reference to Mr. Gladstone's

Constitution and the events which followed it. think
that men who have committed such a tremendous
political fiasco are not men who are entitled to appeal
to the country on the ground of personal confidence.
We cannot entrust the government of this country
into the hands of men who have proved their own
incompetency by producing a plan which they were
Iat once obliged to abandon amid the derisive shouts
of all parties.  --   must now touch upon a somewhat
delicate matter      the question of comparative autho

rity. Who were the men who adhered to Mr. Glad
stone, and who were the men who revolted from him ?

In the first rank of political life none of his old col
leagues adhered to him except Sir William Harcourt.
With him also was Mr. John Morley, who had joined
the Government recently, having come from literary
I Icircles, a man of great ability, and an eminent author
in the region of philosophy.  may say that attach
great weight to his opinion, and if we are to have new

1881-93] MR. GLADSTONE AND HIS OPPONENTS              425

Imen devising new Constitutions for us, should not
be disinclined to take the opinion of the right hon.
gentlemen. But who were against Mr. Gladstone ?
There was John Bright. Now, whatever differences
of opinion any of us may have had with him, we must
all acknowledge his vigorous, his masculine honesty,
his perfect freedom from narrow party jealousy, his
manly character, and his possession of that charac
teristic of common-sense which belongs pre-eminently

Ito the highest class of English statesmen. Then will
take Lord Hartington. He also has a masculine
honesty, and a singular sagacity in foreseeing the
probable results of political changes. Then take Mr.
Chamberlain, a man who has been brought up in the
management of a great city, and who palpably and
before our eyes has grown in political stature and
wisdom. Then there is Mr. Goschen, about whose
Igreat abilities and knowledge of financial affairs need
Inot say a word ; and should mention also my learned
Ifriend Sir Henry James.              wish the English people
to understand that it was a mere fraction of the Liberal
leaders who adhered to Mr. Gladstone. By far the
best men who adhered to him were my noble friends
upon the bench below me ; but in the House of Com
mons all the most distinguished, and certainly all the
Imost independent, members of the Liberal party re
pudiated and opposed his scheme.      now come to
another point of great importance in connection with

Ithe resolution which shall venture to move. We
Ihave done with the Constitution to which have been
alluding. All the followers of Mr. Gladstone declare
Ithat it is dead and buried, although I, for my part,
doubt it very much.                   believe that we shall see the
greatest part of it revived if we ever come to discuss
tIhfetwpoossPibairliltiiaems enotfsa  new Constitution for this realm.
                                      should ever be set up, you will
find it impossible not to retain some of the points of
that scheme.      But in the meantime, at  any rate,  it
is spoken of  as                           campaign   --
                  dead, and we have a new

426                  HOME RULE                                              [chap. xliv

Ithe appeal to the masses as against the classes.
Iadmit that there are some subjects as to which
would rather trust the instincts of the masses of the
people than the instincts of the educated classes, and
in the course of the last thirty years there have cer
tainly been occasions when my sympathies were with
the masses and not the classes. But when the framing
of a new Constitution is at issue, is there a man in his
senses who would appeal to the instincts of the masses
rather than to the educated minds of the classes ?
To draw up                                 ofof raltlhteasgkso.vernItmewnats
of a country  a   new Constitution
              is  the most difficult

not done by the masses in America, but by the most
Ieminent of their public men, and not without great
difficulty.   say it is unreasonable to appeal to the
masses with regard to the form of our future Constitu
Ition. When Mr. Gladstone talks about the classes as

opposed to the masses, he means, suppose, that the
higher classes have a certain bias against which they
have a difficulty in struggling, and which interferes
with  wtehemirusctanredmidemcboenrsidtherisa--tiotnhatofpocleitritcaainl
But                                                                        questions.
                                                                          leaders are

a class as much as any other, and that they are subject
Ito'thefinmdostthatrtetmheenpdroeussentteminptetaritmiontsh. at.
                                                                   ..  are  enjoying

                                                                  we
between the abandonment of Mr. Gladstone's last
Constitution and the production of his next new Con
tswtiotuttihoinngsis--bgeriniegvoguisvenmiusrpepbryesethnetatGiolandstoofnethepahritsytortyo
of the past and of the acts of the Government of the
present. Mr. Gladstone has charged us with being
IiIgtnsoorahnatppoefnshisthtoarty,whaenndespecially of Irish history.
                                           was a boy, the first scene
I witnessed in the House of Commons had reference
Ito Irish affairs, and remember seeing the gigantic
form of Daniel O'Connell as he came out in a great
state of excitement  after                 aheseavlewreaysdetfeeramt edobt"atinheadt
against him by one   whom
scorpion Stanley." Ever since that time, at frequent

1881-93]           HENRY VIII. AND IRELAND                                                                              427

intervals we have all been compelled to study the
IhtohfisottuhogirnyhgtsoiftinIoredthldaanttdhc,aotaunnMdtrr.yt.uGrlnadosmtuorunseat,ttcewonnittfhieosnswhttohomattheII  state
                                                                                                                        have
                                                                                                                        have
been in close communion for a great part of that time,
should now accuse us of being ignorant of the history
of Ireland. The results of my own reading of Irish
history have certainly not been agreeable to the doc
trines of my right hon. friend. . . .

  I' Nothing more mischievous could be done at the

present time, think, than to tell the Irish people that
it was the power of England that forced upon them
the land system under which until recently they lived.
There is absolute proof against the proposition of my
noble friend, and there can be no doubt whatever that
the system under which the land was held in Ireland
under native chiefs did infinitely more injustice than
could be done under any feudal laws. Upon this point
I do not wish to detain your Lordships by quoting
Iauthorities.      will merely refer to the authority of
Hallam          the words of              f"PerrkeonncedioweursganIsorti,sshumwchhaon.thmina"gyThbaees
said to   and
Irish,"   have  been quite a
          said  Prendergast,
tenure, nor forfeiture, nor fixed rent. At this they
repined, though willing to offer such tribute of victual
as was required, and to let their chieftains eat them
almost    out  bofuthdoeufseendanmde.'h"omeS.uchHewnacse    the saying,
' Spend   me,                                             the condition
of the Irish tenants, which my noble friend represents
                                    much worse     abbyoutht eHmeneraysuVreIIsI.o?f
aHsenhrayviVngIIIb.eeWn hmatadise  the real truth

Nothing is more strange than the great contrast be
tween the personal characteristics of the great Tudor
monarchs and the effect which their measures had on

the history    of  HtheenrcyouVntIrIyI..   There are many  passages
in the life    of                         in which we can
                                                           think of
nothing but his tyranny ; but, still, in other things he
displayed a political wisdom which enabled him to
contribute to the noble structure of English history.

428                        HOME RULE                    [chap. xliv

In  a letter  swaihdic:h"  he addressed to   the        Earl of  Surrey
    1520 he                 Show unto the                        that of
in                                          Irish        people
necessity it is requisite that every reasonable creature
should be governed by law. Show them that of neces
sity they must conform the order of their lives to the
observance of some reasonable law, and not live as

they have done heretofore." It was the absence of
lHaewnrythaVtIII.c,haarancdterwizheadt   Ireland in the reign of
                                        he sought to impress upon
them was that they must live according to some
reasonable law.'

   Speaking five years later (September 6th, 1893) on
the Home Rule Bill, in the House of Lords, the Duke

said :

I Ikeaisvne'gridtopvmsaetsnos--toeusdrae--ndbnteoofothsraeaign--yrgeetcheinarwttaiotiwhunhrlyethnCenotonhDtsiutsitkthuBeetiiloolunfpnaDitwseysievllsoo--nfsstihaftihnrieedt
as to what was said about the distinction between
that utterly vague and meaningless phrase about the
unity of the Empire and the unity of the kingdom,
certainly not the unity of the kingdom ; certainly
not the dignity of the Crown ; certainly not the
authority of Parliament ; certainly not the respon
sibility of our Ministerial system ; certainly not, by
the confession of my noble friend opposite, the purity
of public life ; and last, not least, certainly not the
liberties of the people. Every one of these great
interests must be profoundly affected, and profoundly
affected for the worse. Are we all agreed upon this
point as to the immense importance of the subject ?
My noble friend, Lord Spencer, said last night, in
that speech which was so full of that charm which
        toandhisgoopdersfoenealinl g,chtahraatcte"r,at  his moderation,
                                                        least we are all
Ibelongs

courtesy,
agreed upon the importance of the subject."                      do
not think that we are agreed. Nothing in my noble

1881-93]      ANSWER TO LORD SPENCER  429

friend's speech gave us the least hint of the enormous

Ieffect which such a measure must have on the prac

tical working of our Constitution. As said before,

Icitushasatnotnaoollsts--peerdteihoecehuarsle. wwawiItsahscfoutulnhlloidstofnqaoukteinbshditetintolepensr sbwewiainotngrhdd rreoiomnfseinc-iotwd--ueardttbe,erus.wty hewtInoet
   heard my noble friend's speech, of two celebrated
lines addressed by his illustrious namesake, who
wrote much about Ireland in the days of Queen
Elizabeth. Courtesy and moderation of tone are not
the weapons with which this subject has been fought

Itomouatyshieddaeer liwgthhhetathwihsaehllessaaryoesfr--s --tbhuiastndHoictuoisuseld.alwnaMoytys hveneloprbylbepelienfargiseinrnegd

minded of the lines :

     ' " A glow-worm lamp, it cheered mild Spenser,

          Called from Faeryland to struggle through dark ways."

When we heard the excuses which he made as to the
abandonment of conditions which only a few years
ago he upheld on the subject of the land in Ireland,
and of the retention of Irish members at Westminster,
we had a measure of the dark way through which the
Spencer of our day has been drifting. We are not
agreed, therefore, upon the importance of this subject.
Did your lordships hear the Duke of Devonshire last
night reaffirm the pleas which Mr. Gladstone has
lately denounced ? The noble Duke quoted them one
by one, showed that, though Mr. Gladstone had
caricatured them all more or less, substantially he
adhered to them. What did Mr. Gladstone say of
those pleas as to the Union ? The Duke of Devon
Ishire did not refer to them, but, so far from
          itmhthopososeretapnplceleeaasso--wf ewtrhehiisc"hmhiedaareseouurseth--eaMndrp.lemGaoslandswsttrhooinucesh
admitting     hope none of us will be accused of
prove the
said that
falsehoods."
using strong language after that illustrious example,

430                            HOME BULE                                                                       [chap. xliv

Ibecause after it we can use any language we like.
Irejoice myself, because do not in the least object to
Ithis language on the part of Mr. Gladstone.                                                                   know
it to be perfectly sincere ; he is absolutely sincere,
Iand am not quite sure whether he is not the only
Imember of the Government who is sincere.                                                                      look
upon the head of the Government as a sort of Mahdi
among the dervishes of the Nile. He is a pure fanatic,
who cannot look on             ttheims pseur.bjecItt  with moderation, or
even with common                                      proves to us what

would be the state of mind of that man in whose hands
the Parliament of this                country would be if                                                      pyeoouprleL.ordIt
ships do not perform                   your duty to the
is perfectly clear that Mr. Gladstone does not admit
the enormous importance of this measure. He treats
it, as  tahlilnga--lontghahte         treated  it,       as a comparatively
light                           has   say, as  if        it were simply the
                               is to
                  of a new
Iset'tingstaunpd   here to     municipality in the country. .                                                  ..
                               say, speaking to the people of
                                                                                                               the

United Kingdom and to the people of America and
the Continent, that men have a right to refuse to
I Iagree to the transference of their allegiance from one
authority to another.                 repeat what stated in this
House upon a recent occasion, that the duty of allegi
imannecnea--llatnchdieviirtlihzeleivdeesxs,toetcnhiseeitoiirnesl.iobef rIptfireosyt,oecuatniogdnivethaerueirp  correlatives

                                                                                                               pprroopteercttyin--g
you lose the right to their allegiance.                         TIhaem                                         Liberal
party ought to acquiesce in this doctrine.                                                                     myself
the descendant of men who resisted authority and
Isuffered death in defence of the liberty of the subject.
    therefore cannot hold the                         doctrine                                                  of passive
obedience in all circumstances.                                                                                throw over
                                                       If you
the people of Ulster and commit them to the authority
of men who you confess have done constantly what
                     friend    Lord
macyts --noI bsleay  that if   you      Spencer           calls discreditable
Ithat way, you will lose              treat the
                                                         people of Ulster in
  have but little more                toyosuary.righI t   to their obedience.
                                                         must, however, tax

1881-93]           ANSWER TO MB. GLADSTONE                          431

your Lordships' patience a little longer in order to
refer to a favourite theme of the Prime Minister's.
The Prime Minister says we must submit to the
           He says it          --isthqautitethisinebvreitaakbinleg  that this
                                                                     down of
          should come
Iinevitable.

separation
the Imperial Parliament is inevitable.                   have a great
          --mfoyr  Lords, for   men who                  submit to the in
respect,            men who    bow their                 heads to Fate and
evitable
Ireceive the stab from the swords of their enemies --

but have no respect for men who make things in
evitable, who make inevitable misfortunes which they
Icould easily avoid by a little manliness and courage.

   maintain that nothing like this Bill is inevitable.
On the contrary. My Lords, do not let us think that
to-night we are fighting for the last time in a losing
Ibattle.  believe we are winning in a great campaign.
I believe that the future is on our side. Ours are not
the times when great empires are being broken up into
petty principalities. Ours is the era, ours is the

Icentury of union, of strength by union, and believe
Ithat our strength will lie in the maintenance of this
Union. Inevitable ! Why,            have been spending
the last few weeks in a part of Scotland whence we
look down upon the hills of Antrim. We can see
the colour of their fields, and in the sunset we can see

the glancing of the light upon the windows of the
Icabins.
Iwhen
          This is  the  country,    --thothuigshtisthetheothceorudnatryy,
          looked    on   the scene

which the greatest English statesman tells us must
Ibe governed as we govern the Antipodes. Was there
ever such folly ?       agree with Thomas Carlyle when
he said in his own picturesque style, that England, Scot
land, and Ireland are one by the ground-plan of the
world. By geographical propinquity, by common
brotherhood,       beyqucoamlitmy --oneqbuloaold,lawwes             We want
nothing but                                              are one.    sides of
                                                          on both
the Channel. My Lords, if there is a single grievance
remaining in Ireland at the present moment, it is
entirely due to the present Prime Minister. That

432            HOME RULE                                [chap. xltv

grievance is this--that the Roman Catholics of Ireland
have not been  allowed  any Universities. Why was
               because  Mr. Gladstone introduced an
that ? It was
absurd Bill a few years ago, which my noble friend
opposite took a leading part in defeating, having, no
doubt, the guidance of the professorial spirit. And
since that day what has Mr. Gladstone done ?
Nothing. . . .
   ' We wish, my Lords, for a union of hearts ; we
wish for a union of interests ; we wish for nothing more
and   nothing less. We     dmesaiirnetaiannedd--arneot
that  this Union shall be                               determined
                                                         a nominal
Union, not a Union under the Crown merely, but a
Union of Parliaments, a Union of Executives, a Union
of the judiciary, a Union of one system of just and

equal laws.'

   The following extracts from letters received at the
time refer to this speech :

' Youb Grace,              'September 21st, 18d',i.

      I' On behalf of myself and many co-religionists

and Liberal Unionists in Ireland, take the liberty
of tendering to your Grace warm and sincere thanks for
the splendid service which you rendered to the United
Kingdom, and more particularly to Ulster, by the
magnificent and crushing speech which you lately
delivered in the House of Lords, in opposition to the
nefarious and revolutionary Home Rule Bill. . . .
   ' Among the historic utterances of the present crisis,
your own speech, for hard hitting, dialectical skill,
and oratorical finish and effect, must ever occupy a
high and memorable place.
   ' Your Grace will kindly pardon me for taking the
liberty of writing you on this subject ; but gratitude
prompts me to express my sense of the obligations
Iunder which we have been laid.  have always been
Ia constitutional Liberal, but never before have

1881-93]           MR. DANIEL O'CONNELL                                     433

been so ready to adopt the old formula, " Thank God

Ifor a House of Lords !"

          ' have the honour to be, your Grace,
                   ' Most respectfully and gratefully yours,

                            'N. M. Brown, D.D.,

                               ' Ex-Moderator of the General Assembly of
                                     the Presbyterian Church in Ireland.1

From Mr. Daniel O'Connell {September 9th, 1893).

' My Lord Duke,
      ' As you considered it worth mentioning in
your Grace's most         able               in the House of Lords
on the 7th instant       that   "spaeseocnh  of O'Connell had signed
Ia petition against Home Rule," venture to forward
Ithe report of an interview had with a representative
Iof the Kent Coast Times, which shows that am a
sincere Unionist and gives some of my reasons for

Ibei'ng   one.           to  remember        that  my father                always

         am happy
Irepudiated crime in his agitation.                fail to find that

the present leaders of the misguided portion of my
countrymen have ever, in their speeches or writings,
Idis'coucraagnevdassiet.d for Mr. Lowther at the last election
Ihere,   and,      to the best of my ability, worked for him.
                         to remain
                '  beg'
                         Your Grace's
                                       obedient    servant,
                                       ' Daniel O'Connell.'

On April 19th, 1886, the Duke wrote to Mr. Glad

stone :

  ' It was very

Iof those whom
                         kind of you to      "caSlel cseosssioonoinststo,"  see one
                         Herbert calls                                        and

trust we shall continue to keep our old relations,
joining hands across the cracks which are now yawning
into chasms.

   ' For, truth to say, it is not now so much on par
ticular measures as on the whole methods of argu-
vol. n.
                                                   28

434                               HOME RULE                [chap. xuv

Iment and treatment in politics that                      differ from

Iyou.

   ' think it is Cardinal Newman who says, in regard

tbcoeerc'ftoaTamiihntihisn,,mgteahtsianhtoitdtahsls,leeeimhsmuasamtta"etonrusnminipveteoe, rllsliietsaicclt.w, showaIlvhtt eeynnisot.ua"apr ppilnieutdreellleuycntddeeisr
  Istructive force, lifting all old anchors and laying down
no   naergwueo--netso  in their   place. say this    to explain, not
to                      explain    the root idea in  my own mind

in its antagonism to yours.
    ' As all this difference is now not on speculative
  matters, but on practical proposals of enormous con
  sequence, we must all speak out, and speak freely, as
you are

  I' You
         doing.                   therefore, that, whatever
         will understand,
I Imay say, am where was as regards yourself per
sonally. Fortunately, the two spheres are wide apart :
that in which we are now divided, and that other
in which we have shared together a good many of
the joys and of the sorrows of life.'

         To Mr. Gladstone {September 10th, 1887).
    I' have been away in the Islands, living at the
foot of a volcano, which is fortunately extinct, the
condition in which Dizzy once humorously described
  Iyou   and your then colleagues.
      '   return to the mainland    to       find    the  fiery  cones

  of Hawarden in full activity, and one little jet of hot
  Ima'teriwalritreuntnoinsgenidn  my direction.
                                  you a mild remonstrance  against
         which refer to                                                        to
         being described
  words

  Iyours
                                  caesrta"inattcaocuksnte"r-aurpgounmeynotsu.
  Ihold to the principle took up in a letter to you two
  years ago (nearly), that in the profound differences
  which separate you from your former associates, and
  not less from your former self, the two spheres of
  politics and of private friendship are absolutely

1881-93]  MB. GLADSTONE AND HIS FRIENDS                           435

Iseparate. will illustrate this doctrine by an anecdote
I Iwhich have never told you, but which have often
Itold to others, and which repeat often now, when
I hear political hostility degenerate into personal

abuse.

   ' You may perhaps recollect complaining once to
Ime in                   o"f                   difficulties in per
                                                     suppose there
sonal
          your Cabinet        1870   of your
          dealings with              Lowe."
                              Bob
was no one of your then colleagues less sympa
thetic with you, less in tune with your opinions and
enthusiasms. Nevertheless, this happened to me with
him. After you had resigned, and when we were in
office only till our successors came in, Lowe opened
to me one day on the subject of your relations with
                     He spoke in terms of
                     great surprise, ended
your

Ition,
       colleagues.                                     bwyarsmayiandgm, ir"a
       and, to my
Ihave the same kind of feeling towards him that
can suppose must be the feeling of a dog for his

master."
' Lowe would not have said this if he had not
Ifelt it, and, will add, he would not have said it to
I I Ime'
unless       he had  known that could sympathize.                 ever
And           did.     don't suppose that any man

conciliated and commanded so much personal and
political affection from colleagues as yourself, and
this, moreover, was entirely separate from mere

Ipri'vatheolfdrietnhdasthiapl.l this is perfectly consistent with the

most vehement opposition to your new opinions, as
well as to your methods of argument in support of

them.
' You have yourself been firing red-hot shot, in
whole broadsides, against all who cannot follow you
in a   path  which, to   th"esmervailte  least,   i"s  entirely new.
You    have  ascribed a                   spirit       to those who
                C"rismhaelslowB,ill
supported the                         ; and    very lately you have
written of the                       useless,   and in
utterly untrue                                 forward  m" aonny  points
                statements put                                    behalf

of the Liberal Unionists.

                                                        28--2

436                      HOME BTJLE                            [chap. xliv

I' don't object in the least ; you have a perfect
right so to speak.
   ' True, you seldom name persons, whereas your own
name is inseparable from the cause you advocate.
You stand alone. . . .
   ' Of course, it would be possible by circumlocutions

to avoid naming you. But this would only transmute
speaking of you into speaking at you, which is odious
in my opinion, and is disrespectful, while the strongest
direct quotation and reference need not have this

character at all.

  I I' say all this in explanation, not in argument.
am anxious that you should understand my point of
view, even if you cannot take the same.

   ' Retirement from public life, absolute abstention
from the expression of convictions which are largely
          as well as  mweirtehlynoptoli"ticaattl,acwkionugld"  be the only
ethical   compatible                                           you, if the
course
combating of your opinions and of your teaching is
Ito be so construed.
' You may be right, and we may               all  b"e           wrong.
sometimes ponder         this possibility,  and                gang ower
the fundamentals      "   again and again,
                                            always with one
Iresult, that your experiment cannot be safely tried.

Unfortunately, neither you nor can live to see the
results.     What    we are each doing now                     will  have
effects   "  far on  in summers which we shall                 not   see."

We must speak and write according to our lights, and
must reconcile personal friendship as best we may
with the inevitable passions of all great political
contests.'

     To Mr. Gladstone {Inveraray, April 26th, 1892).

  ' I quite feel with you, and probably for much the

same reasons, that we ought not to enter upon personal
controversy about politics. But this does not inter
Ifere with my desire to answer frankly any question as
to my own views that you may put to me.                              have

1881-93]                    SPEECH IN GLASGOW                  437

always thought that the Federal Constitution 'of
America is the best model existing of federation under
one              law or         set of  laws.
    '   supreme  course,        such    a system  presupposes  that
       But, of

existence of previously separate and independent
Governments such as the Colonial Governments had

Ibeen.                                            think the Federal

   ' Pray do not conclude that
Constitution of the U.S.A. is one to which it is easy
or even possible to adapt the United Kingdom. But
this would lead me into the thick of the controversy.
IAnd besides the indisposition to enter into this with

you on the grounds alluded to by you, have this
additional feeling, that the position of a party leader
makes it quite hopeless to argue with him, because on
Imany points which are fundamental he is generally
not open to argument at all.                      am continually
annoyed and vexed by the inevitable necessity in
your case  of founding almost all                          on what
you have   said, or have omitted        toreassaoyn--inga  necessity
arising from the indubitable fact that you are not
only the head and leader of the party, but you are
the party, nobody else even approaching you either
iynoutheexseinrtc. eriItty  of  your convictions or in the influence
                            is  really ridiculous what nonentities
Iall around you are.
                                only say this to explain how
Iimpossible have found it to avoid combating your
action and your speeches as the only ones which it is
worth while even to consider.'

   On November 1st, 1893, the Duke spoke at a great
Unionist demonstration in the City Hall, Glasgow,
on the Irish question. From this speech the following
extract is taken :

  I' rejoice to know that you are thinking of the great
Iwave, as believe, of public opinion which is now

ready to support the House of Lords in saying that
this law for the misgovernment of Ireland, this Bill

438                           HOME RULE                              [chap. XLrv

for the sale of the liberties of our fellow-subjects,
shall not receive your approbation, any more than it
has received the approbation of the House of Lords.
IYou will

not come
      readily           understand,  I   therefore, that have
      here to           apologize.       have hardly come here
I Ieven to explain, and if do explain, shall explain
by telling you of an incident that has occurred to myself
within the last few days.        You     know that in the            High
lands of Scotland, where      I           behind the blue
                                  live,                              range
of mountains which encircle the Firth of Clyde, we
still retain what you Lowlanders are
pleased to call         our   baenlcieievnet--ssuopmeerstoitfionuss  b--seolsimeovmeetei--meiosnf
them, at least.         We
second sight. Some of us believe in visions of the
day and of the night. Some of us believe                             in the
remarkable words of the patriarch Job, that
                                                                     "in a
dream, when deep sleep falleth upon men, then He
I I Iofsrupabe'gjnWmeeceetthnl--lt,thotehfseehtaohoruistslhdoegfrramedadedtanryes,asunsbwdjehycseotenua--leuftpohowr ntaihstetioitrsh-niiannignskhtirntium,gcmtiwoefnnhes.al"elt,
IiIf

to
not   into a deep sleep, at least            into a deep reverie.
       a vision and a dream.                 ?WiIll    you allow me
had   you what the dream was                         dreamed that
tell
and a great number of my fellow-countrymen of all
classes were about to set out on a long journey in
Ianknimewmewnsaes  railway-train, through a country which
                   wholly new, and along a line which no
passenger-train had ever passed before, made over
bogs, and sand, and quicksands, and forests, and
precipices, and every kind of dangerous ground.

I I IttAgohrfonaetditnhoa,efbfcei"cafceowrorerseemfulophefaandvnttreehyirve.i"nethgrceo?mt"ohplsedaae"nitsdyrtOa,: hihn"a,a"nnTddhsawaiitdensnattdthihodeeeus:pge"umntaoHoprtadlsovoyseommafteeyitsnohfotueyf
Ime. Great age is of itself no               guarantee for           "neOrhve,",
haendsathide,re"fowree    am  not satisfied  with that."
                        have  a grand old    engineering hand to

1881-93]  SPEECH IN GLASGOW                                    439

guide us." But he said also, to my great relief : " We
have an additional precaution. We have made up
what we call a brake compartment. We allow the
passengers to have a few of their number in that brake
compartment, and we give them the power, if any
thing very dangerous should appear, to apply the
I Ib"raksehoaunldd

posed that
          to stop        the train."  Oh, well," said,

          Ibeshvoeurldy  glad indeed of that," and he pro
                         be one in that brake compartment.
Well, we went on for some time very well and pros
perously, but we saw it was a very dangerous country,
and at last, towards dark, the train began to slow
on a rapid turn in the line. We all looked out, and

Iwe saw we were stopping at a station, which saw
was invaded by a great crowd of wild-looking men,
armed with blackthorns. They were cheering loudly
and making an infernal row, waving handkerchiefs
Iand sticks. As we drew up to the platform, saw
Ithem waving a flag.     could  not quite          "thTehrmouotgtho
Iat first, but at last   made   it out to  see
                                           be
Iplunder to disintegration." Then saw them go up
to the engine. At first our grand old engineer repelled
them with much dignity and power, but a short time
afterwards we were alarmed to see secret signs passing
between our grand old engineer and this mob. We
saw him allow a whole lot of them to take possession

of his engine, and then we suddenly started again.
Well, gentlemen, we had no sooner started under these
inauspicious conditions than we felt the train sway
most dreadfully from side to side, as if we were going
to run off the line. We saw that we were rushing past
stations at which we should have stopped. We
looked out and saw that we were rushing against
danger signals without taking         the  least                  At
last we looked at each other          and  said :  n"oWticee.
                                                               must

apply the brake." We all jumped together, and with
a long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altogether, we
I IIstopped the train. Then followed a scene which
shall never forget.      saw it as distinctly as see this

440                    HOME RULE                                   [chap. xljv

vast assembly just now. The line was covered with
passengers, who came to thank us for having saved
their lives. In the middle of this came the grand old
engineer, with a frown upon his face. He said this
was not a time for violence, hardly even for vehe
       but  he asked us, shaking                              fist in our faces,
       did  you interfere with      his                       driving in this
*****m" eWnchey ;                   my
Iway ? will smash you up next time." That is the
Iposition, feel, in regard to the House of Lords. We
were in the brake compartment, and we stopped the
train for the best of all reasons.

  I' ask you now to look at the specimen we have
I I--oEwfdhianGtblcauhdorgoscstahoellntiGahitenladboasetrtchgoaeuunrmsiaeendnatiytta. cinitsicIstta.heispeIstarpfeeiepsccetharfespcdpoteellciicsvimypeereeocndifm--reeionndf
herrings to distract the attention of the people from

the merits of his Bill. His proposal is to keep it out
of sight ; to draw a red herring across the track ; to
attack the House of Lords. That is the whole object
oanndhitsheowwnhoBleill--gisatbsoofluttheatsilsepneceech;. a
                                                              Complete silence
                                                              violent attack on
Ithe House of Lords to distract attention. Now, that

is the secret of all jugglery. had a relative in early life
who had paid a famous juggler to teach him his secrets,
and he told me that he was often much struck with
the philosophy that was in it. The whole secret of
legerdemain is to misdirect the attention of the spec
tator either by words or by actions ; to distract the
attention of the audience to one spot while the trick
is being performed in another. This is the whole
secret of conjuring, and it is the secret Mr. Gladstone
has been working now for eight years in order to keep
the people of this country hoodwinked and bamboozled
Iinto  the acceptance  of his proposals.
    '   am not going   to be led off by                       Mr.  Gladstone's
tactics into any disquisition before you as to the
constitution of the House of Lords. That question

1881-93]  PEERS AND PRIVILEGE                                                 441

Ican wait. But will say a few words in passing about
my own feelings concerning it. We Peers are sup
posed to have an immense privilege. Yes, we have
a piivilege in one sense of the word, but we have also
an immense disability. We are unable to sit, even
if we desired to do so, for a constituency of the people.
IDuring my fifty years of public life have often been
Itempted to wishthat   had had  the higher
          say,     belongs to                --prtihvailet goef
that, strange to                Irish Peers
refusing to sit in the House of Lords and of appealing
to a constituency of the House of Commons. The
Irish Peers have that privilege. Lord Palmerston was
Ione of them who took advantage of it, and you know
fwoirththwehapteospplleen--difdorretshueltsn. ationfeealsthaatwwheolear.e  trustees
                                                                            We do
not represent one constituency alone, but what we
Ithink is the general impulse and impression of the
people of the whole nation.     am told that it would

Ibe well to have the House of Peers remodelled, and its
basis enlarged and broadened.   shall have no objec
tion to the process, provided, of course, that it is done
on lines which are consistent with the experience of
Iother nations and with the first principles of human

society. But beg you to observe what is the language
of many of our opponents. They have no objection
to our constitution ; their objection is to our exer
cising any discretion whatever. The assumption is
that wherever a second Chamber differs from the first
Iit must

excuse
           be in the wrong.  "  And not only that.                         ;  can
          men for saying,       We are always right                           our

opponents are always wrong." That is very natural
language ; but the language of many of our opponents
seems to be that a second Chamber should have no
opinion of its own whatever, that it should be per
Ifectly dumb, andfollow exactly the votes
                   say that if that is the  of the^first
Chamber. Well,                              doctrine, a
second Chamber is of no use whatever. . . . All the
countries in Europe that have invented a Constitution,
as well as America, have desired to have a second

442             HOME RULE                       [chap. xliv

Chamber ; and America, as you know, has a second
IChamber much stronger than ours, and they set
immense value upon it.  cannot help thinking that
the recent transactions and Mr. Gladstone's conduct
Ihave thrown a new light on this very important sub

ject, because used always to feel that the great object
of a second Chamber was to prevent hasty and impul
isnivefalveoguisrlaotifonthi;sbIurtisthheBreillhaasnybwehenereno--pnoopnuelawr himatpeuvelsre.
The danger that we are suffering from is not popular
excitement in favour of any particular measure.
That measure has never raised any excitement or any
enthusiasm in any part of the country. What we are
suffering from is a danger which no one of us foresaw,
and that is the possibility of a very cunning party
leader bribing and manipulating various factions by
giving one this, the other that, giving hopes here, giving
hopes there; and so, by mere cunning, by mere dexterity,
by what he himself would call old Parliamentary
handism," manufacturing an artificial majority which
Ishall thrust its proposals down the throats of Parlia

ment. thank Mr. Gladstone for having given us the
great example of a danger which is new, or almost
new, in the     history of the world.
    ' There is   one important truth   in  Mr.  Gladstone's
Edinburgh speech. He did say one thing which is
deeply and profoundly true. He says that in our
Constitution we trust entirely to the good sense and
moderation of those who possess abstract rights and
legal powers. Quite so. We have no written Con
stitution, as the United States have. Considering the
great interests which are at stake in political affairs,
the great interests which are at stake in the wise and
the just                of mankind, it
to quote  government                        is  ntohabtl,asaps h"emthye
          the words of  Scripture, and     say
kingdom of heaven is within you," so the British
Constitution is within the breasts of the British people.
Though you search all the libraries in Glasgow, and
search all the dryasdust tomes that have been

1881-93]       mr. Gladstone's policy                                    443

gathered for   cenItturiheas,s  you           will not  friencdordth--e   British
Constitution.                    no           written                    nothing
which Mr. Gladstone admits to be even fundamental.
No treaty of union with England ; nothing, in his
opinion, is a fundamental law. Everything depends
upon the moderation, the temper, and good sense with
which the legal powers are exercised by the various
I Iauthorities.
               turn this against himself, and say
you are now opposing Mr. Gladstone on account
of a want of common-sense and even of decent
moderation in his policy and in his method. He has
abused the powers of party leadership. He has abused
the doctrine of reserve, of secrecy from the people.
HIfephaartsyagbouvseedrn, mlaesnttly,isthtoe  wielding of party majorities.
                                              be conducted in this country

on honourable and public lines, surely some degree
of openness is necessary between the followers and
the chief. Surely it is due to such men as John
Bright, and Lord Hartington, and Mr. Goschen, that
they should have been told of the new secret which,
Ito use his language, was hatching in his mind. None

of these things was done, and understand that the
other day in the House of Commons he openly avowed
that in 1882 he sent a private and confidential message
to Mr. Parnell that he would not in future oppose his
Iobject.  say that was a betrayal on his part. Let
Ime tell you this. Mr. Bright has gone from us.
Iwas his colleague during a good many years.                             was

his personal friend for many more. We were divided
Ion many subjects.  did not always agree with him,
Ibut never knew a more thoroughly honest or more
thoroughly masculine understanding. He came to me
Iin the last year of his life, and he sat with me a long

time in my garden in London, and assure you he
expressed an opinion to me about these Irish pro
posals which almost took my breath away, so vehe
ment was he that they would be ruinous to England
and ruinous to Ireland. He was the author of the
best part of the Irish Land Bill, the only part which

444                   HOME BULE             [chap. xliv

is worth anything--the Purchase Clause. Yet to this
great man, for such he was, the tribune of the people,
the foremost man in the Liberal party, Mr. Gladstone
gave no confidence, but opened secret negotiations with
Mr. Parnell. Mr. Gladstone said that every Govern
ment must have reserve. Of course, they must have.
On such matters as the Budget they must have secrets.
Every man of you who is engaged in commercial pro
                that  to reveal the Budget  Iwomualdintdaiisn
ceedings knows  and   great interests. But
turb commerce                     icnhtaongceosnfaidreeninceq--uewshtioolne
that when   great constitutional
the people  ought to be taken
and open confidence.  That is     theHeonslayysco: ur"seOhw, htichhe
a statesman ought to
                      pursue.
people take in great ideas ; they do not take in details."

IWhat does he call great ideas ? Let us compare what

he is doing now with the three questions which am
about to mention. Take Catholic Emancipation ; take

the Reform of Parliament ; take Free Trade. All these
great measures involved great and simple ideas, which
the people were perfectly able to take in. There was
no haste. Catholic Emancipation had been before the
country something like thirty years ; the Corn Laws
had been longer, and so on with regard to Free Trade

and the Reform of Parliament. All these were simple
ideas, and the people were fully cognizant of the prin
ciples underlying them. But what were the great
Iitems of Mr. Gladstone's Home Rule plan ? The only

idea can give is this : that Irish affairs are to be
dealt with by the Irish, and that means that Irishmen
may muzzle each other, and cut each other's throats,
and boycott each other, and tear the eyes out of each
Iother, in every way, and it is no concern of ours ; it is

an Irish affair. That is a great idea which do hope
Ithe people of this country will never tolerate. Mr.
Gladstone says we are foreigners to the Irish.  say
we are flesh of their flesh and bone of their bone. We
are responsible for their liberties, and we will not

betray them.

1881-93]           THE BRITISH CONSTITUTION                                  445

' Mr. Gladstone has used some very violent language
          oof bujescUtinoniosni:st"s.  He said the other day, talking
Ilately                                believe them to be enormous,

of our
monstrous, and hideous falsehoods." Now, that is
Ipretty well.                                                                mild
Iness of the                                                                    am
                       hope you are satisfied with                     the"
                   language. He goes on to say
                                                                       :
Ibound absolutely to believe in their sincerity." He

is very kind. Now, want to say this to you, that,
in my opinion,     this language                   is full of     a"nfaimlsephoorotadn"t
truth, and the     truth is this :                 the word
is generally applied to falsehood in fact, but is not
            a"pfpallieladcy t"o        fallacious  anadrgunmoet nt"s.falseWheoodu.s"e
Igenerally                             for that,

the word
But agree with Mr. Gladstone that there are fallacious
arguments which are in the nature of falsehoods, and
as much to be condemned as a falsehood in matters
I Iof fact.
                   see that am addressing a great many
Iyoung men

upon them
                   atshwiseltlrausthe--ldethrlayt  men,   and     would impress
                                                     the  spirit  to enlarge in
yourselves, above all things, is the spirit of truth, and
that you should hate a fallacy in argument almost as
much as all honourable men hate a lie in fact. The
world will be better off when it comes to this, and

democratic government by the masses of the people
will be consistent with the highest interests of man
kind when public men address themselves in this
                   in this spirit alone.
Ispi'rNit,owan, d  have only further to                   say  before  you   retire

from this place, you may well be tired of Glad-
stonian speeches, but you have to deal with an immense
subject, even the remodelling of our British Constitu
tion. Go and look in your libraries to the great
works which have been written by our American
brethren in framing their Constitution. Compare the
splendid logic which they used, the calm and dignified
and foreseeing wisdom with which they laid the
foundation of their great Republic ; compare with
tGhlaatdstthoenialonosepalratnyg--uaagme,bigthueousslovweonrldys  thinking, of  the
                                                                  concealing,   and

446                HOME EULE                                [chap. xliv

intended to    conceal, mischievous and ambiguous pro
               then you will see what a great study is
posals -- and
before you. Above all, remember your duty to your
fellow-countrymen across the Channel. Remember,

it is literally true that Mr. Gladstone's proposals give
less security for life and liberty and property to the
people of Ireland than the laws of the United States
I Igive to her emancipated negroes. That is literally
true.      should be glad to prove it to you if could
have a separate address at some future time. Re
member your duty to your fellow-men across the
Channel. Help us who have done our best to resist
Ithis invidious and iniquitous attempt. Without your

help we can do but little, and beg you to imitate
Mr. Gladstone at least in one thing, and that is
passion. Be                             but more
careful than   as  pisa.ssioItnaitse,  legitimate  logical   and more
               he                                  to be    passionate

when there are great interests at stake. There is
the Constitution of your country at stake, that which
secures the liberties of every man and woman and
child under the Imperial Government. Remember,
you are responsible ; you have consciences and in
tellects of your own to discharge your duty to your
God and to your country.'

   The Duke received many letters congratulating him
on this speech, from some of which the following
extracts have been selected :

       From Lord Salisbury {November 9th, 1893).
I' read with great satisfaction your proceedings at
Glasgow, which seem to have            bIetenis  in every way most
successful and encouraging.                        gratifying to see
that you put Mr. Morley into a most unphilosophic

passion.'

1881-93]                   MR. THOMAS HUGHES                                                                     447

From Mr. Thomas Hughes* {November 4th, 1893).
' Dear Duke of Argyll,
                                                                                                                 I was
      ' Thanks for yours. As to the speech,
quite uplifted by it. Nothing that the Duke of
IDGbeeoe'vsncoh--nesanhhmiarhesgaflveaeotdcrhsetaohdiudarm--t ecgyoosonoouv.de.trath.enrd.dewsJtoadsuoenwpcnhh,   or Balfour,
                                                                                                                 as they have  or
                                                                                                                               all
                                                                                                                 the gauntlet
                                                                                                                               to
the Radicals, Fabians, and sich, on the question of
what party has done most for industrial and philan
tbhero"pwicigsreofonrmthe                      Probably there will
                           and legislation.    part of your speech,
                            green over this
Iso if can be of any further use you have only to let
Ime know.       have been behind the scenes ever since

1848, so maybe able to clear up mists for you in these,
as you have for me in the region of the higher politics.
' Pray don't think of answering.
                           '  Ever             truly yours,
                                    most       Thomas Hughes.

                                            '

' P.S. --My wife reminded me at breakfast that,
Iwhen was made Q.C. twenty-five years ago and had to
Igo to Court, she advised that should ask the leader
Ion our then side with whom most agreed to present
Ime, and that accordingly applied to you, and you
Ikindly did the business.           had forgotten it, but was
pleased to be reminded that at any rate some of
one's old political beliefs hold water still.'

          From Mr. Walter (November 3rd, 1893).
' Forgive me
have enjoyed               for writing a line to say how much
                           your speech at St. Mungo's City.
II
wish you would some day give us your reminiscences
of some of the other political heroes with whom you
have lived, such as Brougham, Derby, and Lyndhurst,
the cleverest of the lot.
   ' Your dream, or second sight vision, was an excel
lent parable.'

          * Author of ' Tom Brown's School-days.'

448                 HOME RULE                               [chap. xltv

   From Sir M. E. Grant Duff {November Uh, 1893).

  I' You really must allow me to congratulate you on

your Glasgow speech, which have only read this

Imorning.

   ' For many years have been accustomed to think
and to say that you, Bright, and Gladstone stood in

Ia class by yourselves amongst the orators to whom

Ihave listened ; but very much doubt whether you

ever pronounced a wiser or weightier speech than
this one.'

     From Mr. Bosioorth Smith {November 1th, 1893).

I' My Lord Duke,
       ' must send you one line to tell you of the
supreme pleasure which your splendid speech at
IGlasgow gave me.   read every word of it aloud to
Imy wife and daughters, who, think, were as sorry as
your audience must have been when it came to the
Iend. The personal reminiscences were intensely in
teresting.  happened to be going over the Natural
History Museum with Sir William Flower on the
afternoon on which it appeared in. the Times. Of
Icourse, he was delighted at the use you made of your
visit there with him.  don't think Sir George
Trevelyan will pay a private visit to those scattered
vertebrae. The creature ought to be named after
Ihim on the lucus a non lucendo principle.
' How       would have liked to have heard you !
Apparently, we are not to hear of Home Rule again
from Mr. Gladstone for a long time to come.
     ' Believe me,
            ' With
                    m'uYcohurress'pvWeecr.ty,
                                                sincerely,  Smith.'

                                               Bos worth

   To this letter the Duke replied (November 9th,

1893) :

1881-93]  letter to mr. bosworth smith                                449

spl'eDndeida' rMaMmnrey.ettiBhnaogns--kws4o,r0fto0hr0   Smith,    note. We had a
                                                       your kind  all men, largely

                                                         people,
working classes. . . . The House of Lords cheered to
the echo whenever named !
                                                       ' Yours truly,
                                                                     ' ARGYLL.'

VOL. II.                                                          20

                       CHAPTER XLV

                                                  1885-96

      SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT -- THE ARMENIAN

                                      QUESTION

After Mr. Gladstone's resignation in June, 1885, he

was out of office for a period of eight months, and
during this time he delivered a number of speeches in
Scotland in which he foreshadowed his future policy.
The impression he gave that it was his intention to
bring forward the question of the Disestablishment of
the Church of Scotland created a feeling of alarm in
the country, and meetings were held to protest against
the principle. The Duke was asked to speak on the
subject at a meeting in Glasgow on October 20th, 1885.
The Earl of Stair occupied the chair on the occasion,
when the Duke opened his address by proposing the
following resolution :

   ' That, in the opinion of this meeting, there is no
desire on the part of the people of Scotland for the
Disestablishment and Disendowment of their National
Church.'

   In the course of his speech the Duke said :

    ' The Government of this country is a Christian
Government, and when a man passes from his private
house into the council chamber of the city, into the
Cabinet-room of the Queen, or into the Houses of
Parliament, he is bound to carry his Christianity with

                                                                      450

1885] VITAL IMPORTANCE OF RELIGION 451

him. And he uses his powers as best he may in con
siderations of wise Christian expediency for the further
Iance of the interests of the Church of Christ. . . .

   ' know no nobler characteristic in man's mind than
that of keeping his mind open to be taught by the
Iteachings of Providence and life. desire for myself to
Imaintain

remember
that  aatltl itthuedeopoinfiomnisndI,   and     rather rejoice to
that                                   have  held most strongly
Iin life have been opinions taken up against first impres

sions, and not in unison with them. But say that
there are certain universal instincts of the human mind
against which, if any given doctrine sins, there is the

Ihighest probability that it is false. say that, looking
Iback in the history of the world, know no age and
no country in which nations have not considered their
religions an intimate part of their civic and public
policy. Even heathens raised temples to the gods,
and opened and shut their gates in peace or war. Is
the great instinct to fail under the Christian religion ?
This feeling has no root in the history of Scotland, or

in the hearts of the Scottish people. Nor is it the
doctrine of any one of the Presbyterian Churches as

I IChurches. Before depart from this subject, wish
to say one word in regard to the principles of volun
Itaryism regarded from rather a higher point of view.

   have been spending much time during the past few
years in tracing the bonds of communication between

Idifferent departments of human thought, and declare
Ito you, as the result of my investigation and my

thought, that know no doctrine in the world so abso
lutely opposed to the truth of Nature and to the truth
of God as any doctrine which establishes a sharp and
absolute line of separation between the sacred and the
profane, between the natural and the supernatural,
between the material and the spiritual, between the
duties of our religious and the duties of our daily
life. . . .
                                                    ask,
  I I' Now pass from abstract principles, and
Why is it that we are here to-night to defend the
                                             29--2

452  SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT                 [chap. xlv

*****IChurch of Scotland ?
                            have come here to defend
the Church of Scotland because, as matter of historical
fact, the establishment of Presbyterianism in Scotland
has been the glory of our national history.

I' wish to impress upon the people of Scotland the
national character of this Church. Let me put a case.
Suppose some foreigner were to come to this country
with something of a sympathetic historical mind, a
mind like the late Dean Stanley.
man were to come to me and say :         "  Suppose such a
                                             Show me some
Ithing which is typical of the national history and the

national character." Where should take him ? Not
to our mountains, beautiful as they are, for there are
finer mountains in other parts of the world. Not to
our medieval castles, interesting as some of these are,
Ifor there are finer elsewhere.
                                         should take him,
Ibeyond all doubt, if wished to show him something
              interpret to
              the Scottish
Iwhich should

character of
                            hpiseoepylees--theshhoiustldorytaakned   the
                                                                    him
to that long historical street which stretches from the

Iancient palace of Holyrood to the Castle Hill, and
should show him the procession of the Royal Com
missioner coming to open the General Assembly of the
I IC"hWurhcaht                      conceive him saying :
     of Scotland.           can          would answer that

     is this procession ?"
it is the visible symbol and the homage paid by the
Imperial Crown of this realm to the noblest and purest
popular triumph ever gained in any Christian country
in the world. And when we had followed that pro
Icession outside the walls of the General Assembly,
Iam not sure but

I Ianother spectacle.
                       would   present   him   inside  wi"th
                        could  conceive  him   to say
                                                       :

suppose this  is  an"  assembly     of    the   clergy ?" My
answer would  be
                  :    Not at all.      It is  an assembly of

the Church, but not of the clergy. In our country the
foundation-stone of the Presbyterian Church is that
the character of the people is the Church, and the

1885]  ' A FREE CHURCH IN A FREE STATE '                          453

Church is the character of the people. These are the
ministers of the Church, but they are in large propor
tion laymen, and so thoroughly are these men repre
sentative of the Scottish people that actually every
borough in Scotland, by foundation and immemorial
usage, has a right to send its representatives to that
assembly, as it did to the ancient Parliaments of the
country. There is the Royal Commissioner paying
the imperial homage of the Crown ; not interfering
with its business, having no power to do so, but simply
recognising the constitutional triumph of the people
Iof Scotland, ratified by repeated Acts of Parliament."

   appeal through this great meeting to the people of
Scotland to remember what an absolutely significant
caenrdempoencuyl--iartheprivciolengseumtmheaytiohnaveof  in this
                                                                  great august
                                                           some   hundreds of

years of bitter and laborious strife, in which the people
of Scotland secured this great homage to the Church of
their country.

' Our nation is free, our Church is free, and we
realize that dream of the great Italian statesman
"ICavour, who, on receiving extreme unction on his
death-bed, said :  wish to see a free Church in a

Ifree State." That is what Scotland has long realized.

Now, gentlemen, have one word more to say. We
Iare told that we must give up this Church in the name

of religious equality. Well, am for equality too, in
so far as you find it in Nature, in the providence of

IGod, or in the history of man. am for this equality,
Ithat would give to every man and to every Church
that which he or it has fairly earned. Well, are we
to say that there are other Churches in this country the
equal in our history, the equal in our regard, the equal
in the power of building up our national constitution,

Iof the Presbyterian Church ? Do not think that
Iam wishing to revive sectarian jealousies when re
mind you simply of historical facts. What is the

454      SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT            [chap. xlv

equality of the Roman Catholic Church ? What has
the Roman Catholic Church done for Scotland ? She
burned our martyrs. What did the Episcopal Church
do for Scotland ? She tried to suppress our liberties.

IWhat has the Presbyterian Church of Scotland done ?

She has done for Scotland that which have en
deavoured to describe -- she has married civil with
religious freedom. She has given to the world a
sample of a Church, free as the winds and yet con
nected with the State, such as has never existed

Ibefore, and will be a model for future time. Well,

gentlemen, know what your voice is. Your voice
and my voice may be overborne, but let us say for
ourselves, and for all whom we can influence or affect,
that we will take our part : we will not help to haul
down this great flag of Scotland, we will not help to
haul down this great national flag. We will, on the
contrary, resist to the last.'

   Alluding to this speech, in reply to a letter from
Mr. Bosworth Smith, the Duke wrote (November 5th,

1885) :
  I' will send you a copy of my speech in Glasgow
Iwhen it is separately published, as expect it to be
in a few days. Mr. Gladstone's reply is, of course,
quite valueless for the future.* He speaks only for
himself  a"ndopfpoorrttuhneisdt,a"y  after to-morrow. He is  now
a mere                               as every man must be    who

seeks no more than to lead for a short time so very
Imotley a crew. The friends of the Established Church

should relax no exertions, although, of course, fully
admit that, if her position is really so strong as to be
         it would be                 best to  sit absolutely still,
         them rave."                  That    don't think is quite
Iusanyaisnsga,ila"blLee, t
her position. An adverse vote in a disorganized House
of Commons might easily be got on a Resolution,"

   * Speech on Disestablishment, delivered by Mr. Gladstone in
the Free Assembly Hall, Edinburgh, November 11th, 1885.

1892]      SPEECH IN EDINBURGH                    455

and this would have a bad effect on the future of the
question. The two Established Churches rest on
                                                 kinds of
different  bases, and  "  are open to different  principle
attack.                   voluntaryism," as a
           But pure
and almost as a dogma, is equally fatal to both, and
this is the strongest enemy in Scotland.'

Mr. Gladstone's third Administration was formed on

February 3rd, 1886, when the Conservative Govern

ment was overthrown on an amendment to the Address.

Four months later the Liberal party was defeated on
the Irish Home Rule Bill, June 8th, 1886, and, for the

moment, the danger of Disestablishment ceased to be

imminent.
   A few years later (1892) the Duke made a speech

in Edinburgh, at a large meeting of the Laymen's

League, which had been organized to oppose the

Disestablishment of the Church of Scotland. In this

speech the Duke, who spoke for upwards of an hour,

sketched the history of the Church from the days of
the Reformation. In concluding, he said :
I I' have a very few more words to say.
                                                 do not

I Iknow whether my appeal to the people of Scotland

which have made to-night, which endeavoured to
I ImmofauktnheiceatwPehreoswllbyiythteurntisahenecmtaCrhiaaunllr,--ch--addfdoorresnsoesdthoktuonldowaflrlewebhlryaantccohtmehse
Iresults of that appeal may be ; but must tell you
that, for myself, my part is taken. The doctrine of
the Reformation in Scotland, in regard to the nature
and functions of the Christian Church, and, as a con
sequence of it, the doctrine of the Reformers upon
Ithe relations between the Church and the State,
when       first learned them and understood them,
                                                  life.
                          enthusiasm of my early
                          of my declining years.  If
awoke the

IThey hold
           interest and
           the homage
did not hear the voices of the living saying to me,

456              SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT  [chap. xlv

" Do not scatter the religious patrimony of the poor,"
I should     still  hear the voices of the illustrious dead
          "  Do
saying,             not sacrifice that which it cost us so
Imany tears and so much blood to gain." And, if
Idid not hear those two voices, should hear a Voice
greater than them all, calling on us not to sacrifice
in Scotland that living embodiment of an eternal
truth, and that possession by Scotland of an ever
lasting faith.'

   For the Duke, freedom from office did not imply
freedom from work. His life was as full as ever of
occupation and interest. Constant demands were
made upon him to speak in public on questions of
national importance. He was consulted by men of
all classes upon a great variety of subjects --political,
scientific, and theological. To all who sought his
counsel he responded without fail, to the working-
man as readily and promptly as to his personal friends :
one working-man alone claimed to have received a
hundred letters from him. He never spared himself
if he thought a word from him could bring help to
another, or advance the cause of truth.

   Literary work occupied his spare moments, and in
1886 he was engaged in the preparation of a book on
Scotland, which was published the following year,

under the title of ' Scotland as It Was and as It Is.'

With reference to a point in ecclesiastical history in
connection with this work, the Duke consulted Lord
Acton, who, in replying, assured him of the accuracy
of his knowledge of the history of the early Church,

and added :

  I' shall look out for your volumes with much in
I Iterest, but will say quite frankly that regret you

are not in Downing Street at the head of a coalition.'

1887]          LETTER TO MB. BRIGHT                        457

   In sending Mr. Bright a copy of his book on Scotland,

the Duke alludes to the political situation at the

time :

                                             ' Inveraray,
                                       ' November 2.2nd, 1887.
' My dear Mr. Bright,
       ' When you are called to form a Cabinet, you
       offer me a seat !
may     almost entirely agree    with  your  last  two     excel

  I'
I Ilent letters.
               recollect saying to you in 1881 that
Iwould do anything to increase owners, but would not
Iagr'eTehtaot
             destroy ownership.  1880  did.

             is what the Act of
' Still, agree with you that the multiplication of
full owners should now be left to natural causes, with
Ithe enormous help of the Ashbourne Act.

   ' was on the point of writing in the same sense to
Ithe Times when your letter appeared, and only de

layed doing so till had got off my hands a little
book on the Irish question, which will be published
Ishortly.
   ' Meantime,  send for your acceptance my late
volume on Scotland.

  I' You may find a good deal with which you don't

sympathize, but also, hope, a good deal that you will
at least understand.

  ' If such an Act as the Irish Act of 1880 had been
passed 150 years ago, Scotland would have been a
rabbit warren of paupers worse than any part of
Ireland.

   ' The worst fallacies of Protection are embalmed
-- alas ! not mummified --in the Act of 1880. The
stupid, the idle, and the lazy are all protected, not
against foreigners, but against the more intelligent
and capable and industrious of their own neigh

bours.
   ' Meantime, let me thank you for your wise and

timely counsels. . . .'

458               SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT                                                          [chap. xlv

Mr. Bright, in thanking the Duke for his book,

wrote :

  I'      .  .It  have found it highly interesting and instruc
         .        contains a history of Scotland, economic,

tive.

social, and agricultural, as interesting and important
as any portion of its political history.'

   The Duke's position at this time with regard to the
policy of Mr. Gladstone is very clearly denned in a
letter to Lord Granville, in which he briefly reviews

his own political career :

' My dear Granville,                            'June 22nd, 1887.

       I' If you will look back thirty years, you will

see that have as often acted apart from Gladstone as
with him.

  I I' began as a Peelite ; but left the Peelites when
IWsttoehnoewu--egrhwetotuthhldeemn huadnvareielyajsooiinnnaebdelxep,Deaectnrabdtyios,ntuacnktdhtaothPehaelwm--oeuGrlsdlta,odni.f
             had gone with him.
             his own Cabinets stuck
Iothers                                   to  him                                         " like  a  brick  "

   ' In
Itill our    afinnoatlesefrvoemranhciemosnaythineg,me"riCtsonosftaancgyreaist                     measure.
  have                                                                                            too weak
Ia word for the support you have always given me."
H" ed' rBsifiutmt"pllaywttaaeslrlolywsiemdphloyatvheearnsfaerltctohimccaoolrm.emaiHtned"  more that his
                                                                                           did   not
           that, and                                                                      the   party  l"eatdo.
          leading."
itthis",              the  other  ;  and  then  fell                                      in,   and  called

   ' His     wheel upon Irish     Home    Rule has                                        been accom
             by circumstances     --by a  violence                                        of language,
panied
by a contemptuous treatment of all who could not
follow him,       by perversions     of historical                                                   --anwdhibchy
the free use      of all the Irish   revolutionary                                        fact,
                                                                                          cant
constitute together an unequalled series of provo
cations.

1887]        LETTER TO LORD GRANVILLE                                                             459

' In all purely personal relations Gladstone is as
perfect as a man can be.     hiBs uptolhiceyn--evoenr           allows those
relations to interfere with                                    the contrary,
he treats all opponents as dirt under his feet. Look
at his last speech to Nonconformists ! He told them
that the Crimes Bill was carried by a servile spirit in
the Commons
   ' Assuredly  !    " servile  spirit " is with                                                  those who

                the

have followed him, not with those who have been
rdeoveosl--teda.llowWphryivastheouflrdienI,dsohripotthoerisn,tedrfoerwe hawtithhe
                                                                                                  never
                                                                                                  public
duty ? That duty calls on all now to speak out
Iwhat

tunity
       they  atthtainckk.ingYohuims--ayyou  never              lose                               taenacohpipnogr.
         of                                  mean              his
I IQuite true. Yet have said far less than think,
IIand have been restrained in much that feel. But

   look on his teaching as reckless, passionate, and
Idestructive.   don't doubt his sincerity, but it is a
fanatical sincerity,  mlaerrgeelsypirtiitncotfur"edfighbty."                                      dislike of
opposition and the                                                                                  You are
not in

Icourse.
       a position     to enable  oyfo"u     ptaortyun"detrhsatannd                                 my
        You think      far more                                                                   ever

did, or could. Moreover, you have had a chief part
Iin persuading Gladstone to keep to his leadership

when he ought to have retired, and quite see that
you can't desert him now.
I Ia
' bacdkid-bennocthleanveontehnetiCtya--bindeistseonfti1n8g8,1  to subside into
                                                               but silent.
I Iwish to influence opinion if
                                                               ammoreb.esieItgeids
by applications to write and
Iodious work.                      can, and
                                 to speak far
                     would much rather be in Scotland
writing on other subjects. But, being quite as con
I IIvinced as Gladstone, and hardly less eager in my con

victions, am afraid must continue to act as have
I Idtoondeo--sofe--elicnog'nstidhaeamrti,ngmaytmhdeenainortteGroernasltnysveitlnlheta,ittleadr,e  but bound
                                                                                                  at stake.

                                ' Yours very 'trAurlyg, yll.'

460          SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT                             [chap. xlv

    The Duke had been asked to speak at a banquet in
Westminster Hall, which was to follow a Unionist

meeting in London on December 8th, 1887. He was
rather reluctant, for several reasons, to leave Inveraray
at the time, but he received very urgent letters from
Sir Henry James and Lord Hartington, who pointed
out that the Duke's name having been announced as
one of the speakers on the occasion had resulted in
' hundreds of applications for seats,' and that without
his presence ' the whole affair would be a failure.'
He therefore arranged his plans so as to enable him

to attend the banquet, where he replied to the toast
of ' The Unionist Cause.'

   The following year the Duke spoke at a large
political meeting at Cambridge (March 14th, 1888).
The weather was unusually severe for the season, and
the train by which he travelled to the North, after the
meeting, was stopped by a snowdrift. The Duke was
rescued from his unpleasant position by the hospitality
of a fellow-traveller-- Sir James Joicey--at whose
house, which was not far off, he spent the night ; but
the cold journey resulted in a chill, which brought on
a bad attack of gout after his return to Inveraray.

During his convalescence he wrote the following letter
to Lady Verney (May 8th, 1888) :

                                                     ' Inveraray,

                                                     'May 8th, 1888.

' I have not yet thanked you for your last letter,
with Sir A.  Clark's                           oofnempe,oiwnth--ichmyamnuostebdeimnge
much. He     is quite               diagnosis
                                    wrong on
able to understand opponents. He little knows !
Most of my opinions have been reached against early
                               and   after           seen and felt,  only
tporoeppoassinefsusilolyn,s,"  the  other    having
                                            side."

1889]          THE MARQUIS OF DUFFERIN           461

' But, of course, convictions thus reached are the

firmest of all.
   ' Still, it is a fault to leave this impression on the

Iminds of others.

   ' am getting slowly over a very tedious attack of
gout. Not sorry to be kept here to see the glories
of the spring on woods hung up on hills, so as to
exhibit every separate top as the opening touches
Ireach it.     am not able to move yet.
I' was glad to see your husband at the Westminster
Hall banquet last December. He seemed to me the

youngest man there !        " Layard,"*  and  shut the
   ' We have been reading
book much in love with Khatun-jan Khanum,f a
striking portrait of an Aryan wife and mother.'

During the months of June and July, the Duke took

part in the debates in the House of Lords on several

occasions, and on his return to Scotland he delivered

some lectures in his own county, on scientific subjects,

in the course of the autumn.

Early in 1889 the Duke's great friend, Lord Dufferin,

returned from India, having resigned the position of

Viceroy at the conclusion of four years of office. The

Duke wrote on the 19th of February to welcome him

on his return to England :
  I' have not written to you, nor you to me, for an
Iage. And now have to hail you as a sort of retired
Alexander, the conqueror of millions and the absorber
Iof new empires ! Well, knew you would do right
Iiws,ell."                                  a destiny it
         But did   not expect this.  What   used to be
       The policy  of annexations,"
                                     as it

called. . . .

* ' Early Adventures in Persia, Lusiana, and Babylonia,' by Sir

Henry Layard, 1887.

   t Khatun-jan Khanum was the principal wife of Mehemet Taki

Khan, the Bakhtiyari chieftain, whose guest Sir Henry Layard was

in 1840-1842.

462           SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT       [chap. xlv

I I' wonder what shall see you ? You will see me
Iold and lame. Yet feel as young as ever in spirit,
Iand if had only legs would be as active as ever ; but
Igout has lamed me much.         am off to-morrow to
Edinburgh to address the students of the University
Iii"nngT' haiet.lhe"LacovtvueIertehoiascfdotToumrrusauetdch.vh,istaeMonytdthreosouunabbnjlseaeoclymtmseiseismsoieftnhtcwheeoodrswdsmse.aomlfl eaottn,teaainnodf
cuboseentwdseeqetuonen"dt--alyzzalembayadlhlmamiirxythuarfseri.elonsdts.thaItt glios rio"ubs ettwinigxet  that
                                                                                                          and

I' Dear old Tennyson has been dangerously ill.
Ihope you will see him. He looms larger and larger

upon me every time open his books, as one of the
     poets of the  world.
     am longing    to see
I Igre'at                  ...

                           you,
I' I'                            but  don't know                                                          or
   I
when, shall.       am not going to town.'
            is

             I
                   I
                           I

                                                                          : if,
   The Duke, with his intense love of Nature, always

greatly enjoyed spending the early springtime in the
country, and watching the renewal of the earth.
Writing to Lady Tennyson in April, 1889, he says

     must go South to oppose the Wife's Sister Bill
on May 9th, whereon am sorry to know that your
husband not orthodox.

          am  so delighted your husband has   seen                                                          the
primroses     again. They are the joy of the  year
                                                                                                          -- no

scent so delicately delicious, think.'

   In May the Duke went to London to attend

the House of Lords, where he spoke against the De
ceased Wife's Sister Bill, a measure to which he was

always strongly opposed. Later in the session he
made a long speech on the question of evictions in
Ireland in connection with the Olphert estates.

   In the month of February, 1890, the Duke delivered

1890]  LECTURE ON GEOLOGY AND GEOGRAPHY 463

a lecture to the Royal Scottish Geographical Society,
of which he was president, on ' The Border - lands

between Geology and Geography.' A member of the

society, alluding to this lecture, said that the Duke
was ' an admirable scientific lecturer,' and that he
" described diagrams with a facility which showed that
public lecturing was to him as easy as to any Univer

sity professor.'

   A letter from the Duke to Dr. Schmidt (who had

at one time acted as tutor to his sons) gives some
details of his daily life at that time :

                                         ' Inveraray,
                                           ' February 28th, 1890.
' My dear             Herr Prelat !
                                         of all your new dig
    I' am             delighted to hear
Inities, although do not exactly know all their import.
I presume   you are practically a        --Biisf htohpe,reorbeansuAcrhcha
            a Protestant Cardinal
bishop, or
creation -- for you appear to join secular dignity and
Ifunctions with spiritual offices and authority.

   ' am now going off to London for a week to deliver
an address to the students of the University of London,
at the urgent request of my friend Mr. Goschen, who
is now Chancellor of the Exchequer. My subject is
ItSotubdey.""EcoIfnoitmiisc
                       Science in   its Relations to Historic
                      separately   printed shall send you
Ia copy of it. But am not writing it out, intending
Ito speak from notes only.               find that reading is
wearisome both to reader and hearer, and one can't
keep the attention of an audience as one can by

Ispeaking.
    ' have been much interested this winter in tracing
Ithe ghosts of organisms in our rocks here. Hitherto

   have only found worm borings or tubes, which can
                      But we find limestones very    crystalline --
bmearpbrloevse--d.in  which we see ghostly outlines  of organisms
most difficult to determine. Hitherto we have not

464            SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT              [chap. xlv

Ibeen able to identify any distinct forms. But I go to

London with one which think cannot be acci
dental. . . .
' Your old vivarium is still standing in its old place
       thneowla. rchI-ttresetanindstheonglayrde"ni.n  But it is generally
under                                                 memoriam." But
empty
you must come and see us when your prelatical
functions allow you, and then we shall get it filled.
IOur loch has now been found to be full of wonderful
luminous shrimps, living at great depths.             don't
know that they would live in shallow water full of
light. Luminosity appears in two little discs on each
segment of the body, with one also behind each eye.
These discs are exactly like the eyes of the pecten,
which you will remember well.'

   The Duke mentions in this letter that he proposed

to deliver his lecture on political economy merely

from notes, without writing it out beforehand. This

was the method he invariably adopted, except when
addressing societies where the custom was that the
lecture should be read. He always felt that, in public
speaking, a set form of words hampered the develop
ment of thought, and words came so readily at his

bidding that it was unnecessary for him to give pre
vious consideration to the language in which his ideas

should find expression.

   In the summer of 1891 the Duke spoke in the House

of Lords on the question of the most advisable manner
of legislating on behalf of the crofter population in the
congested districts of the Highlands and Islands of
Scotland. The speech was delivered to a very full
House, there being a general desire to hear the views
of the Duke on a subject which he had had such

exceptional opportunities of studying.
   Towards the close of the year (November 10th)

the Duke was present at a meeting of the National

1892]          THE FIGHT FOR THE UNION                                 465

Liberal Union at Manchester, where he was the

principal speaker. The subject discussed was Home
Rule, and his address was characterized at the time
as not only ' closely reasoned,' but ' brilliantly epigram

matic and statesmanlike.'

   The Liberal Unionist party relied so much on the
Duke's assistance in fighting the battle against Home
Rule, that his time was greatly occupied in addressing
meetings in different parts of the country, in defence

of the Union. In 1892 he addressed a large meeting
in Edinburgh on the subject, in which he described

the contest as ' the greatest that has taken place in
this country since the Revolution of 1688,' and his

concluding words were :

' We fight for the authority of the Crown, for the
power of Parliament, for the integrity of the Empire.
Yes, we fight for all these, but we fight for something
better. We fight for honour and truthfulness and
openness and candour among public men. We fight
for the fundamental principles of liberty, on which
awlhl icohur"          depend. We fight for      ejuvsetricyeth."in'g  by
               rights  reign and Princes decree
               Kings

   Professor Knight, of St. Andrew's University, one
of the presidents of the Liberal Unionist Association,
wrote to the Duke after the meeting :

  I' Will you allow me to express to you the enthusi

astic delight with which listened to your noble speech
I Iin Edinburgh on Friday night ?
   ' have heard many speeches on this great question
of the century, but nothing ever listened to was so
good as your plea, both from a historical, an ethical,
       a political point of view.
Iand    sincerely trust that your  speech  will  be  published
    '
in a pamphlet form and circulated broadcast over the
country.'
vol. n.
                                                     30

46G  SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT  [chap. xlv

   Professor Butcher, Edinburgh University, wrote
with regard to the same speech :

  I I' Much as have now heard said upon Ireland,

never listened to anything which seemed to me so
eloquent and impressive at the moment, and so worthy

Iof being read and thought upon afterwards. All

whom have spoken to who were among your audience
feel it an occasion to be remembered. Some have said
they never before realized the full gravity of the
question.'

   On August 9th, 1892, Lord Salisbury's Government
was defeated on a vote of want of confidence, and

Mr. Gladstone then formed his fourth Administration,

which lasted until March, 1894, when he finally

resigned office. He was succeeded as Prime Minister
by the Earl of Rosebery, under whose leadership the
Government remained in power until the following

year (June 22nd, 1895), when it was defeated on a

question concerning the Estimates, with reference to
the War Department, and Lord Salisbury was again
called upon to form a Ministry.

   One of the first measures brought forward by Mr.

Gladstone's Government was an Employers' Liability
Bill. This Bill provided that employers should be
liable for injuries sustained by their workmen in the
course of their employment, unless ' contributory
negligence ' on the part of the workmen could be
proved. After the measure reached the House of
Lords, Lord Dudley moved an amendment, to the
effect that, when a mutual agreement for insurance
against injury existed between employers and work
men, the arrangement should be allowed to stand if
desired. The Duke of Argyll cordially supported this
amendment, which was carried by a majority of 120,

1892]  THE ELS WICK DEPUTATION                          467

but its subsequent rejection by the House of Com

mons led to the withdrawal of the Bill the following

year.

   The Duke received a number of deputations of
working men on the subject of the Bill. He was

especially impressed by the clear and just view of the
question expressed by Mr. Foreman, the spokesman
representing the Elswick Mutual Insurance Company,
with whom he afterwards had some correspondence.

In replying to the Elswick deputation, the Duke said :

' The figures and facts which you laid before me
proved conclusively that the free contracts you have
made, and which you advocate, are not relinquish
ments on your part of any valuable privilege which
the law secures, but are, on the contrary, contracts
securing for yourselves and your families, in a better
form and more adequate degree, those very advantages
which the law aims at providing for you, but is wholly
Iunable to afford  in anything  like  an equal degree.
    ' venture to    suggest to  you   the necessity of  your
now taking such steps as you may think right, to
make your voice heard on this question in some public
form.

   ' The House of Lords has done what it could to
retain for you those personal liberties which we all
value so much, and which you are so well competent
to use for your own benefit, and for the benefit of the
great industrial system in which you discharge most
Iimportant functions.  have no right to speak in
Ithe name of any political party, but have a right to
tell you of my own personal opinion that the Peers
cannot maintain this contest on your behalf, unless

they are supported and unless you make it apparent
that we have been acting faithfully in the interests
of a great mass of the most skilled, the most educated,
and the most intelligent of the working classes.'
                                      30--2

468    SCOTTISH DISESTABLISHMENT                       [chap. xlv

From Mr. Foreman to the Duke {March 2nd, 1894).

' Feeling that you have shown the spirit of a true
friend toward us, in that you have gone out of your
way to help us in   the furtherance                of  o"uBr ilcl,la"imso  for a
contracting clause  to be added to                the                       that

there should be freedom of action on the part of work
men with their employers, we tender you our thanks
for the kind and especial interest thus shown on our
behalf. We feel that we owe you much for the trouble
and pains you have taken, not only to make yourself
acquainted with the question, but also for your efforts
to establish equity and justice thereon.
   ' The letters you have written to us reveal your
earnest desire to assist us in obtaining what we so
much wanted. Although the efforts thus made failed
to persuade the Government to add such a clause, yet
the pressure was so strong and the arguments so con
vincing that what was asked                       "wBasill,a"lsoandri,ghotf, coitursree,
tshueltedcoinntitnhueanwceithdoraf wa"l   of the    of contract." This
                                         freedom
leads us to hope that if another Bill is brought for
ward,   we can  sroelfyramonedyotuhratpr"afcrteiecdaol msymofpcaothnytrawctit"h
us to
       have it

shall continue to exist.'

         From Mr. Foreman {August 3rd, 1895).

  I' Permit me to express the gratification feel that

the country has so completely and definitely sustained
the action of the House of Lords in refusing to yield
to the dictates of the late Government, which en
deavoured to force on the people of this country

measures that it did not want, and which were not

in harmony with justice and liberty.'

   During the last weeks of the year 1893, the Duchess
of Argyll, who had been for many years an invalid,
had an attack of acute illness, produced by a chill,

1895J       THE ARMENIAN QUESTION                 469

and the New Year had hardly dawned when her death
brought a new sorrow to the Duke. In the month of
April he went for a short cruise in the Mediterranean,
but while at Corfu he was laid up with a touch of fever ;
he therefore gave up the idea of prolonging his tour,
and returned to London early in May.

    The Duke spoke in the House of Lords in the
course of the summer of 1894 on the Valuation of
Lands (Scotland) Bill, the Budget Bill, Tenants'
Arbitration (Ireland) Bill, and the Local Government
(Scotland) Bill.

   In July, 1894, massacres by the Turks of the Chris

tian population again broke out in the Armenian pro
vinces, and much indignation was, in consequence,
aroused in England. Mr. Gladstone and the Duke
were united in their efforts on behalf of the persecuted
Armenians, with whose cause they were both much in

sympathy.

  It had been arranged that a meeting on the subject

of Armenia should be held in St. James's Hall on

May 7th, 1895, at which the Duke was asked to preside.
On April 18th he wrote to Mr. Gladstone :

I' should be delighted to pay you a visit were it
Inot that    am still in an invalidish  Icoamndihtiaornd,lydufiet
          an attack of influenza, and
chiefly to
Ito inflict myself on others as a country guest.  con

sented reluctantly to take the chair at the Armenian
Imeeting, mainly because, as one of the only two sur

vivors of the Crimean War Cabinet, wish to testify
to my strong feeling of our absolute responsibility for
insisting on reforms in Turkey, since we did then, and
again at a later date, interfere to keep up Turkey as a
rul'inTghePofewwerw. ords you have felt yourself at liberty to
say imply and involve a great deal. When you have

470                     THE ABMENIAN QUESTION               [chap. xlv

said that no promise from Turkey is worth the breath

with which it is made, you say all, if it be only a little

unfolded.'

   To this Mr. Gladstone replied (May 5th) in a letter
which was read at the meeting :

I' hope that the meeting over which you have
kindly undertaken to preside will produce an effect
proportioned to the gravity of the causes which have
     to its
     What
Iled         being summoned.            and tranquillity    through
     '           desire is peace
the whole world, and it is with most sincere grief that
now, when it appears that the extremes of shameful
Ioutrage in Armenia can no longer be treated as matter

of doubt, for one contemplate the infatuation of the

Turkish Government, determined, it would seem, to
                        it can to produce its        ruin.
do' eItvesreyethmiendg                         own    the   crimes  in
                        reasonable to hope     that

Bulgaria of the year 1876, together with the signal
retribution they brought upon Turkey, would have
the effect of preventing a repetition of like, and perhaps
eve' nThmeordeutfylagirnacnut,mhboernrtorosninaAllrmEuernoiap.e, to place no
reliance upon mere words, but to prevent by effectual
IImeasures any further recurrence of such terrible de
linquencies, seems clear enough.               feel confident that
this country will not shrink from her duty, and trust
also in her  haIfviontghetrhegfrieramt                of France and
of Russia.                              co-operation    remain inac
                                        Governments
tive, it is perhaps most of all to be regretted on their
own account.

  I I' will not trouble you with many words, but
could not help sending an expression of my strong
sympathy, and of my hope that by the use of moral
means, if possible, and if not, then by other means,
rather than not at all, ample security will now be
taken against any fresh resort in the future by the
Sultan and his advisers to their deeds of shame.'

1895]             SPEECH AT ST. JAMES'S HALL                       471

       From the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Benson
                        {April 3rd, 1895).
I' hope very earnestly that in your great effort, so
important politically, religiously, and socially, on
which you solemnly enter, you will make it absolute
that all the Eastern Christians shall be brought under
pro' tTehcetion"  along with
                  Assyrians,"        the   Armenians.    whom you  so
                                       or   Nestorians,

materially aided some years ago, live in no less danger
than the Armenians. One word from headquarters to
the Kurds, and the possibly oldest of national Churches
would be extinguished in Turkey.'

In the course of his speech at the meeting in St.
James's Hall, the Duke said :

  I' There

party, but
              is  a party in this          pcoerusnotnrsy----whwo ildlonnoot tsfauyllya
              a   great number of

understand what the responsibility of this country is
Iwith regard to all these atrocities in the Turkish
Empire.           have come here mainly to impress upon
you this      mcoinnvdi--ctitohna,t  which is            impressed upon
my own                               we, the   deeply    of this country,
                                               people
as a nation, are directly responsible for the govern
        or misgovernment of Turkey.
Ime'nt  stand before you as one of the         ...       two       survivors

                                               only
of the Cabinet which waged the Crimean War (my
right honourable friend Mr. Gladstone is the other), and
I wish to set right a very common popular misappre
Ihension as regards the objects
Ithere are very many persons
                                               wofhothastayw--ar.        believe
                                                                   have even

read some articles in      reviews written by            educated men
lately --who say we        waged the Crimean
                                                         War in order
to support the Turks and the Turkish Empire, and for
no     other
       Well,  purpose.  a            complete  mistake.            The whole
    '          that is

object of the Crimean War was, not to support Turkey
as an empire at any cost, but to establish this as a
European principle : that, whatever might be the fate

472                  THE ARMENIAN QUESTION                              [chap. xlv

or the future of Turkey, that fate and that future were
to be in the hands of Europe, and not in the hands of
IRu'sNsioawa,lonew.an. t.
                             .  read  to  you  three           short  documents

                           to
Iwhich will place on an absolute certainty the state

ment that have just made as to our object in the
Crimean War. Here is what Lord Aberdeen said, who

was    "thNeothweiatdhsotaf nthdeingGovtheernfmavenotura: ble  opinion  of  many,

    '

it is difficult to believe in the              improvement                  of  the
                                               the pressure                 of  the
Turks. It is true that, under
moment, benevolent decrees may be issued ; but these,
except under the eye of some foreign Minister, are
Ientirely neglected. Their whole system is radically
vicious and inhuman.                  do not refer to fables which
may be invented at St. Petersburg or Vienna, but to
numerous despatches of Lord Stratford de Redcliffe
himself and of our own Consuls, who describe a frightful
pic'tCuaren  of lawless                   and cruelty."
              there be     oppression     expression than               that,   so
                           a stronger
Ifar as concerns the head of the Government which

waged the Crimean War ? Well, come to the next
authority on this subject, and that is Lord Russell,
who was Foreign Minister during part of the time,
and took an active part in all the negotiations con
nected with that war. Having read to you the opinion
Iof Lord Aberdeen, which shows what the object of the

Cabinet was not, now come to what that object really
wRua'ss.s"eTllh, e"
                     Cabinet of Lord Aberdeen," says Lord
                     while actively defending the independence
of Turkey, felt that in objecting to the separate inter
ference of Russia they were bound to obtain some
guarantee for the security of the subjects of the Porte
professing the Christian faith, whether Greek, or
Roman Catholic, or Protestant, whether Christians
by descent or Turkish converts."
   ' Here the doctrine is laid down distinctly that the
object of England in waging that war was to set up

1895]                 THE WAR OF 1876                                          473

                          over all Christian subjects of
                          the Armenians only, but over
IatheEuProorpteea--n nporto, teocbtsoerravtee,
all Christian subjects. Then come to the third
authority, which, you will admit, is a remarkable one.
The great Prince who stood nearest and dearest to the
throne at that time, and who regarded everything
with a thoroughly intellectual and philosophical mind,
Iwrote this, which has since                                                     do
                                                                               can
not recollect having seen it
                             been made          p: u"bTliche;
                             at the time

celling of all previous Russian treaties, and the sub
stitution of a European for a Russian protectorate of
the Christians, or, rather, of European protection for
a Russian protectorate. . . ."
   ' But the  real truth is  thofatanoyurtrreeastpyo.nsiIbtilidtyepednodess
not depend    on the words

upon the broad fact that we did intervene, and saved
the Turks from complete defeat and ruin by Russia.
After the destruction of the Turkish fleet at Sinope,
Turkey was practically in the hands of Russia ; and
when we stepped in and saved her and gave her a
new lease   of life,  we undertook a            reIsfpothnesribeilihtyad       from
which we    cannot    possibly escape.                                           not

been a single line of treaty, a single intimation given
Itto us, a single promise vouchsafed to us, the responsi
bility would have been just the same.           arose out
of the fact of our position, and the action we took in
a great Russian crisis.'

In alluding to the war of 1876, the Duke said :

' That war arose distinctly out of the crimes of the
Turks. The Bulgarian atrocities excited all Europe,
and Russia especially ; and Russia, as the other Powers
did not seem willing to come forward and act as pro
tectors of  the Christians of Turkey, waged war
Turkey.                                                                        --upfoonr
            Wareell,braavfteersoladievresr--y Rguaslslaiantwarsesaisttatnhcee
the Turks                                                                      gates
of Constantinople, and forced upon Turkey the Treaty
of San Stefano. In that treaty Russia bound herself

474           THE ABMENIAN QUESTION                       [chap. xlv

alone to protect the Christians. Russia would have
had the right to an exclusive protectorate of Turkey,
and would have acquired for herself that rich and
osghluoarrliloBunrsiottisinhhhaveGeroivtatehnrnicsmeternoetfatytihn.etervIEetanseistd. ,truAaent dytohsuaisidovm:eor"cmaYemoneut
the Turks ; you have wrung from them this treaty ;
but we say you shall not have it. We will take it out
of your hands, and insist that Turkey shall give these
promises to all of us which you intended should be
given to you alone." That was our attitude at that
time. There, again, we saved Turkey, and gave her

a new lease of life, restored her power, and that, if
there were not a single word of treaty, imposed upon
us a solemn obligation to defend the Christians of
Turkey. After that we have rested on our oars.
That promise  was              given by    Turkey, and you observe
the terms of                  that the    Porte was periodically to
              it--
make known the steps taken to this effect to the

IPowers, who will superintend their application. Now,

the Turks have never fulfilled that promise, and am
sorry to say we have never fulfilled our part of the
ob'ligMart.ioGnlatdosttohnee  Christians   of  Turkey. .
                                says in   his  letter he  ..      peace

                                                          wishes
I Iand tranquillity all over the world. So do we all, but

not at any cost. And must say think it the abso
lute duty of this Government to keep the people of
this country informed upon the facts of the case.
Open the windows, open the doors ; let in the light !
Whatever other action we take, let us at least make
the people of this country know what they have to
deal with, and the horrors for which they are indi
Ividually and collectively responsible. . . .
   ' have the honour of addressing a great many who
were not born forty-five years ago, a great many more
who were very young at that time, and perhaps a very
small number of men who remember all the circum
Istances of the case. They                are burnt   --inthautpowne
                                             may say                  my
heart and memory, and this                                            did

1895]   SPEECH AT ST. JAMES'S HALL                      475

not urge this country into that war. On the contrary,
Ithe   country urged us on into that war. . .
     '   have only further to say that it is to  .   a  very

                                                 me
special and painful recollection to look back to that
Iperiod when all those with whom acted, except Mr.
ItGladstone, are dead and gone.  is the fate of those
who have arrived at my time of life to have that
sadness very often forced upon them.

            ' " The clouds that gather round the setting sun
                  Do take a sober colouring from an eye
                That hath kept watch o'er man's mortality.'"

IIBut, looking back to that time, say distinctly that

cannot see that we took any step at that time that we
ought not to have taken, or that we failed to establish

Iany principle which was not right and just. The words

   often find myself repeating, the touching words of
our late Laureate, are :

        ' " Come memory, with sad eye,

            Holding the folded annals of my youth."

Yes, they are folded -- folded in much sorrow for those

Iwe have lost, for the remarkable men with whom

have worked, and who are now gone ; but they would

Ibe folded not in sorrow and regret only, but in remorse

and shame, if to the last hour of my life did not tell
the people of this country of the immense responsi
bilities which they took with us, and which they forced
us to impose upon them.'

   The Duke wrote to Mr. Gladstone (May 8th), giving
an account of the meeting :

   ' We had a large meeting, and your letter was
received with great applause. We had an Archbishop
and some Bishops, but the meeting was predominantly
Nonconformist, as was shown when a Mr. Clifford rose.

... IHe was received as if he were a demi-god.

476               THE ABMENIAN^QUESTION                  [chap. xlv

Iwent this morning to read all the political morning

papers, and found that all were favourable to us
except the Morning Post.'

     To Mr. Gladstone {August 5th, 1895).

I' am glad to see you are to speak on the Armenian
Iquestion this week.

   ' have felt it due to the Foreign Office to be silent
till we could know what it had done or was doing, and
Iuntil onecould see         correspondence it was
                felt  the                                imrepsouslsti--bleit
to judge.             sure   of at least one good
was impossible to have such a negotiation going on
at all without the Powers being committed more and
more to some express acknowledgment of responsi
bility, and this acknowledgment will carry inevitably
its own result.
I ' But, so far as we can judge by published documents,
  thought    the   scheme of the  Foreign Office hopelessly
complex.          was a scheme    which would be unwork
             It
able even with goodwill on both sides, and futile where
there is no goodwill at all or honesty on the part of
the  Turks.    Of course,   my    own   belief is  that  "nobaregmeadnyd
can   ever   be effectual   till   the             fall
                                         Turks
Ibaggage," as regards the Government. But the time

is not ripe for this, suppose ; and in the meantime
some one good governor for those provinces seems the
simplest solution.'

     To Mr. Gladstone {December 10th, 1895).

  I' know nothing of the diplomatic situation as it
Inow stands on the Eastern Question ; but privately
have no doubt of the chief elements in the situation.
   ' 1. We cannot get at                seat of trouble by a
military force of our own.        the   is inland, and we have

                                   It
no army to undertake an Asiatic campaign. Even if
we had, the Turk could cut every Christian throat
before we could reach the country.

1895] England's position 477

of  ' 2. Consequently, we can only exert the pressure
to  ''po34ph.. pyosBTsihuceeat laRTnfuouyrsrcsakeica,tawiotffihlblfeoanarccodkeqte--udcaorantbtecyurlesraR--suatn,tsasaCiyato,,npesrwvteaesinlneltnitntch.oerperltaeat.einnlsy

resist, and a   Ruasnsdianhoalrdmiyt--isnnoemairnaelnlyoufgohr  to occupy
Constantinople
                                                                the Turk,

really for herself.
   ' These are as ugly cards to play with as were ever
Iplaced in the hands of any Government.

   ' suspect and believe that Salisbury is practically
compelled to drag in other Powers from step to step,
towards some joint form of action at Constantinople.
The Turk knows only too

Ito back him against force
                                    --waetll  how     Russia is disposed
                                              least,                         am
                                                      at present.
afraid he counts, only too securely, on a purely selfish
Ipo'liFcyoronmtyhseelfp, art  of that Power.
                              would greatly    prefer  allowing,             and

even inviting, Russia to take possession of all the
Armenian provinces of Asiatic Turkey. Would you
I Inot
     '?
       ...
              to         add  that      thought Kimberley's plan
       ought
of protection for the Christians utterly unworkable.
Probably he had the same difficulty in getting Russia
Iand the other Powers to agree on anything.                                  have

not seen the utterance of the Emperor of Germany
to which you allude. But all the Powers except our
selves are as cold as ice on the score of humanity.
They are thinking of nothing but of their own mutual
jealousies, and of the postponement of a war of terri
torial redistribution in the East.'

    To this Mr. Gladstone replied (December 15th, 1895) :
  I' agree with you
                              t--hai.te.w, eoucagnhntont ostentod--ango  army to
Armenia, and cannot                                                       to war
wit' hThtehree girseaat
                          Powers.       which  we     followed           in  1880
                         third course,
with complete success. We threatened to seize Smyrna

478  THE ABMBNIAN QUESTION                             [chap XLV

and stop its revenues. This brought about the exten
sion of Montenegro, and gave Thessaly to Greece.
Bu'tThReushsioarrtohrenof  behaved very well.
                            the whole case is  beyond  belief,  and

the Sultan is the man who does it.'

     To Mr. Gladstone {June 22nd, 1896).
  I' The

by the
     o"nplyustshyin"g        recollect was being much amused

                           way in which Granville had got
IBright to consent to the naval demonstration on the

Albanian coast, because felt that when fleets are
sent they must fire in certain contingencies, and Bright
Imight have been committed to an act of war. Of all

the rest recollect nothing, and probably, as you
say, never knew. In the Armenian case force could
only have been applied in the Sea of Marmora, and
Ithat was a much more formidable thing than laying

an embargo on Smyrna. Still, have a feeling that
greater determination on our part would, or might,
Ihave dragged all the other Powers with us. Mean

time, we are not at the end, and have some hope that
my argument may be of a little use in giving direction
to 'pEurbulpictioonpsiniosnee. m to be breaking out all over the
corrupt Turkish body, and things will not easily be
composed without great changes. But we ought to
make friends with Russia as far as possible.'

On August 17th, 1896, the Duke wrote to Mr. Glad

stone, expressing his estimate of Austria :

I' did not say anything in my last letter about the
IEastern question, to which you referred.              assume
it to be true that Salisbury refused the infamous
proposal that we should join in a blockade to prevent
the Cretans getting outside help. That would have
been indeed intolerable.

  I' But, further, hope it is also true that Salisbury
Ihas approached Russia in some friendly way, and

1896]           POSITION OF AUSTRIA                                479

flatter myself that my pamphlet has had some influence
Iluikpe'oHnteohimd"i.nsepdeakwisthhopm"e
                 a        few weeks ago.      did not
                to         him, but he
                          my pamphlet,        vaonludnt"eetrheadt  to
tell me that he had read                                           he
Idid not know anything in it from which he differed,
except about the Crimean War."                said that was

ancient history now, and irrelevant.
   ' But what has surprised me most, and disgusted
me, has been the part played by Austria. Russia
has temptations about all popular movements, how
ever righteous ; but Austria has acted with in
credible baseness and cowardice. Her Minister has
expressed his horror of the Armenian massacres, but
always coolly adds that such sacrifices for the peace
of the East and for the postponement of a break-up
Iof Turkey must just be endured.

   ' What she is afraid of, don't know. She governs
Bosnia (so lately Turkish) admirably, and the Maho-
medans and Christians are living now together in

perfect peace. A recent book by a Scottish archae
ologist (Brown) gives a most satisfactory account of
Ithe country. Why can't other provinces be equally
well managed ?  used to think Austria the most
respectable of all the old Governments of Europe, but
she has been really infamous in this last Eastern crisis.
I met her Minister* here lately, a gentleman, but
Icyn' iOcaulr,  suspect, as regards any question of humanity.
              foolish seizure of Cyprus in 1878 damages us
                ntoowg. rabThmeorPeo. weIrfs    are suspicious of our
seriously                                     we could persuade them
intentions
all that we don't want another acre for ourselves, they
would be more amenable.'

  It was at this time that the Duke published his

book, ' Our Responsibilities for Turkey.' Regarding

this little volume, he wrote to Mr. Gladstone (June
13th, 1896) :
                * Count Deym.

480            THE ARMENIAN QUESTION                   [chap. xlv

I' have desired Murray to send you an early copy
IoItf
a little book    am publishing on the Turkish question.
               our national responsibilities arising out
is to show
         national deeds for
         far as possible,
Iofour                       the last forty    years.  distinc
' As                         have avoided       party
Itions, although by so doing have sacrificed some part
Iof the strength of the case.       don't expect you to
differ at all from the arguments.'
From among the appreciatory letters concerning
this book the following is quoted :

From Monsieur Naville {the eminent Egyptologist).

  ' Mil'oWrdheDn ukI ew, as in England a month ago my

friend Lord Reay strongly advised me to take with
me and read the book which your Grace had just
Ipublished on England's responsibilities for Turkey.

  found it so interesting, and it seemed to me such a
*****very important contribution on the burning question
article  upon it for  one of the
land--Iof the day, that thought it could not but interestLe Journal
Ialso keenly my countrymen. Therefore, wrote ande Geneve.
                                  leaIdtinigs  papers of Switzer
                                               this article, which
Iwas published in two consecutive numbers (second

page), which venture to send to your Grace.

I' My name is perhaps not quite unknown to you in
connection with Egyptian research.             have been
working more than ten years in Egypt for the Egypt
Exploration Fund.'

                    CHAPTER XLVI

                                                 1860-93

                                       SCIENCE

The Duke's great interest in science brought him into
correspondence with many of the eminent scientific
men of his time. Some of these letters, relating as
they do to isolated scientific facts, are now of little
general interest ; but the following extracts, which
are grouped according to subject-matter and date,
have been selected, as illustrating both the wideness
of the Duke's range of scientific thought, and the
thorough methods he employed in pursuing his investi
gations and inquiries after truth. The extracts are
mostly taken from his correspondence with Sir Charles
Lyell, described by the Duke as being at that time ' the
great law-giver in the philosophy of geology '; Sir
Richard Owen, the distinguished anatomist ; Sir
William Flower, the successor to Sir Richard Owen
in the superintendence of the Natural History Depart
ments of the British Museum ; Sir John Murray, of
the Challenger expedition ; Mr. Herbert Spencer ;
Professor Tyndall ; and Lord Kelvin.

                      Organic Evolution.

   Organic evolution, to the consideration of which the
Duke devoted much thought and study, and on which
he wrote a treatise, published in 1898, is the subject
of the following correspondence :

    VOL. U. 481 31

482        SCIENCE                                                  [CHAP. XLVI

     To Sir Charles Lyell {February 2§th, 1860).
I I' wish
           had been able to talk over Darwin's
Ibook.* It is a most delightful one, suggesting endless
subjects for discussion and inquiry.                            think he fails
fundamentally in these two cardinal points : First,
in showing that in the existing or contemporary world
breeding does effect any changes such as tend to the
formation of new species. Second, he fails to show
that in the past worlds there is any proof or clear
evidence of such gradations of change as his theory

Ireq'uireasm. thoroughly dissatisfied, too, with the explana
tions by which the latter difficulty is met. Most
ingenious argument is expended in trying to show how
Iit was that such gradations should have been lost ;

but wonder his result did not suggest the over-
iinngethneuitaysseorftiothnostehaatrg"umNeantutsr,e  when   it  is  summed up
                                                      has,          on purpose,
                                                            as  if

           periods of transition."
           the effects of breeding,
Iconcealed her                                                  think the facts
   ' As regards
he gives in respect to pigeons tell more against than
for his theory.
   ' Does he not tell us that by crossing a pure white

and a jet black in two generations the progeny reverted
to the well-known original type of the blue rock, with
its double black bar on the wing coverts. What a
wonderful fact ! How many generations off from
Ithe original wild stock were these reverted birds ?
' Then, there is another fact which                                 think he
omits. Pigeons have been bred, he tells us, for some
3,000 years. Yet how little, how infinitesimal, has
been the change in the more essential habits and
instincts which specifically distinguish the wild stock
from other Columbidae ! Take, for instance, its non-
arboreal habit. Pigeons are now everywhere, in woody
countries, surrounded by trees ; yet who ever sees

           * ' The Origin of Species.'

1860-93]    darwin's 'origin of species'                         483

Ia tame pigeon light on a tree ? Did you ever see one

so light ? never did but once, and that under very
pec' uTlhiaerreciracruemssotmanececsh. apters in Darwin's book which
are invaluable, on the migration of species, natural
selection, etc., and the whole is so full of curious
information that, whether his theory is right or wrong,
it                    storehouse of knowledge.
    i'sOaf  perfect   Darwin applies his theory
            course,                                 to  man  among
other Mammalia. But the record of geology is con
                        in the  later  itnimceosu, rsdeuroinfg"  which
fessedly more complete   have   been
the species Homo must                                            selec

tio'nM,"yfrboemliefamisontghahtisalQl utahderuymeat naosucsertparinoegdeniftaocrtss. are

Iaga' inssthosuulcdh  theories of development.  of  Mr.      Darwin's
                      vastly like to see some
stores, illustrative of his curious information and

experiments.'

            From Sir Charles Lyell {March 1st, 1861).
    I' am very much delighted with your address, both
that part which treats  of the flints  and that         o"n  the more
difficult and delicate  question of    Darwin's              Origin of

Species," which you have entered on without timidity,
and yet in such a way as no reasonable man can object
to, least of all Darwin himself. The difficulties have
I Inow' hecroeulbdeewn rmiteoreonclefoarrlyevoerr,cabnudtidmlyussttatceodn.cl.ud. e. .
am glad you paid a parting compliment to Darwin's
book, which has done so much to promote science.
The subject can never go back to where it was before
he wrote.'

          To Sir Charles Lyell {March 2nd, 1861).

  I I' am very glad you approve of what have said --

at least, as regards its pertinence on the Darwinian

theory.
                                                                                31--2

484                                  SCIENCE               [chap. xlvi

I"d' eveclaonpnmoetntsee"  how  single centres     of " creation "   or
                           can  be reconciled      with his view     of

the mode in which new species take their origin ; but
this is a point of great importance, which requires to
       carefully thought out.
be  '  The truth is that, even                                       that

                                     on       the       supposition

some pre-existing species has always been employed,
so to speak, as a means of introducing derivative
forms, we require, for the law under which such deriva
tion arises, some suggestion or clue which Darwin fails
to supply.'

       From Sir Charles Lyell {January 25th, 1865).

  ' My ' dI ehaarveDutokethoafnkArygouyllf,or a separate copy of
Iyour most interesting address to the Royal Society,
Edinburgh,   which read at Berlin,                 toI  which place the
Proceedings  were forwarded to me.                      have never seen
                                                           in which the
                                                            and think
Itseormclea"rlaawd"efiisniutisoend
                                of the various senses   ;
                                by scientific writers
Iyou have done a real service to the scientific and

theological public by showing, what am convinced is
most true, that there is no tendency to materialism in
the reasoning or speculations of modern naturalists
and physicists, but quite the contrary. Your objec
tion that Darwin has in some parts of his book made
natural selection do more in the way of originating or
creating than is admissible, or even consistent, with
Ihis own                             of natural    smeleyct"ioAn,ntiwqausityfeoltf
          explanation                 page 469 of
strongly  by me,           and   at
Man       said :  "             we   confound variation or natural
                           If
selection with such creational laws, we deify secondary
Icauses, or immeasurably exaggerate their influence."

You have put it much better, but felt as strongly
that Darwin is inclined to believe that he has made a
greater step in the direction of discovering and originat
ing cause or law than he has really made.'

1860-93]      ORNAMENT IN NATURE                        485

    To Sir Charles Lyell {January 31si, 1865).

I' do not agree with you when you say that when
use is discovered in any form of which we knew only
the beauty before, a rebuke is administered to the idea
that beauty is an object in the works of Nature. Would
it be a rebuke to the idea of the carving on the handle
of a war-club being for ornament, that we should dis
cover the said carving to be also intended to give a
Ibetter hold to the hand of the savage ? Surely not.

   have no doubt whatever that most of the beautiful
forms in Nature are married to use in some way or
another, just as in human art we combine ornament
with adaptation to use.
   ' For example, some of the most beautiful surface
ornaments on shells are simply the lines of the shell's

annual growth. In like manner in the vegetable
world some of the most beautiful lines are lines con
Inected with
   ' believe  structure and  growth.     in Nature      very
               ornament to   be pursued
much on the same principle on which man pursues it
in his own works, and no amount of connection between
       and beauty would affect my view of it.
use    Have you ever thought of the extreme    intricacy  of
    '

the arrangement by which any given ornament is
effected in the case of birds' feathers ? For example,
a bar of white on a bird's wing can be made out only
by a great number of separate feathers being partly
white in such degree and at such a point of their
length as to fit the pattern when the bird's wing is
extended or folded. Then, again, how curious the
number of filaments in each feather, which must be
coloured differently in different parts of its length to
fit the corresponding differences of the other filaments,
s"oeythe a"t  the whole shall produce                   The
              of an Argus pheasant's   a given effect.  pea
                                       wing or of a
cock's train is made up out of single
coloured that, when lying in contact,    ftihlaeme"ntesye s"o

results.'

486                                SCIENCE                           [chap. xlvi

     To Sir Charles Lyell {March 22nd, 1865).
I' had previously heard of a case where pigeons had
been tempted and seduced (by corrupting arts and in
fluences being brought to bear upon them) so far to
forget themselves and what was due to the memory
of 'tBheuitr  ancestors as to settle on trees.
              the fact remains that this is a                  rare  exception,

and that the specific instinct of the rock-dove remains
a characteristic of all its descendants of every variety
Iof
   'shaspaew  and   form.          the  other         day the  account        of a
               in  the Field
woodcock perching in a spruce-fir. But these acci
dental instances of misconduct do not affect the

character     of the species.      too,  that         in  the  case  of  pigeons
              be observed,
  ' It will
settling on trees they always settle on the large boughs,
which are sometimes as broad and almost as steady as
the ridges of rock which are their real specific resting-
places ; whereas all the true arboreal doves light
Ihabitually on mere twigs, as other perching birds do.
often see the      ringdove sitting on the top shoot                     of  a fir.
 ' The most           abandoned character among                              tame

pigeons would never do this.'

              To Sir Charles Lyell {May 1st, 1867).

  I' The general   tenor            of  thyeou"r  letter supposes        a"n   an
                   part            to             natural selection           doc
tagonism on my
trine, which do not entertain,                        so far   aosncreega"rdbsornthe"
porreosencrveat"iocnreaatnedd."extiMncytipoonintofis
                                                      species
                                                      that natural selection
can in no way and in no degree account for the par
ticular direction which variations take, that direction
                                             that the new forms are
b"ecinogrrealatdeedte"rmwiniathte   one, so  conditions, with a view
                                   external
to their success and establishment in Nature.

   ' I' specially point out that this argument, though
most important in the philosophy of the subject, is in
no way necessarily antagonistic to Darwin's theory,

1860-93]       ANTHROPOMOBPHISM IN THEOLOGY                       487

Ithough it shows it to be incomplete, and go so far
as to say that my conclusion is one which Darwin
Ima'yBuvet ry  possibly  be willing             to accept.
               stick to  one point              which you   dispute --viz.,
that in order to the establishment of a new form, and
the starting of it on its way, there must be a corre
Icslpoosnedi"ngcorcrhealantgieonin"
                                     both the sexes. Considering   the
                                     of the sexes, have no doubt  that
this is always the case.'

 From Sir Charles Lyell {19th September, 1868).

I' have just read with great interest your spirited
Inaniddificcaletiaornly. -wrIiftten    article   in   reply to   Wallace   on
                                     did not    feel  sure that  portions  of
Iit will be embodied in some of your future works,
should grudge its being placed in a periodical just

struggling into existence, though it may perhaps be
most usefully published in the same journal as the

Ipaper which it controverts. . . .

   ' cannot believe that Darwin or Wallace can mean
to dispense with that mind, of which you speak, as
directing the forces of Nature. They, in fact, admit
that we know nothing of the power which gives rise
to variation in form, colour, structure, or instinct.'

   On March 10th, 1875, the Duke delivered a lecture
on ' Anthropomorphism in Theology ' to a Presby
terian college in London, which he mentions in a letter
to Professor Tyndall on April 23rd, 1875 :

I' have sent you a copy of a lecture lately read by
me before the young men connected with a college in
ILondon.       hope you will find nothing in it incon
Isistent with the sincere respect entertain for your
Ilove of all discoverable truth.                      have taken no part
Iin the outcry about your Belfast address, because
thought it greatly misunderstood, and that its ten
dency is rather to spiritualize matter than to material

488                        SCIENCE                              [chap. xlvi

Iize thought. But need not say that by this route
Iwe may come round very much to the same goal, and

   think we must always keep separate in language the
two most separate things which can be conceived in
thought.'

   With Sir William Flower the Duke had many in

teresting discussions, especially on the question of the
' prospective character of rudimentary organs,' a sub
ject which deeply interested him.

       To Professor Flower {June 11th, 1883).

I' am very glad if my questions have directed your
attention with definite results to the curious problem
as to the prospective or retrospective character of
rudimentary organs in the Cetacea as well as in other
Ianimals.
    ' am   not sure  that  I  quite     understand              your argu
Iment ; but it will be best understood by seeing speci

mens, and should be very glad some of these days
to attend at the Museum and see any that you could

sho' wInmteh.e processes of ordinary generation it is quite
clear that the future organs must be in the germ, and
must in time have incipient parts, whether they are
visible or not. Transmutation involves the supposi
tion that the whole line of future development must
be similarly present in all germs, potentially at least,
with beginnings of actual structure visible at certain

times. A priori, therefore, one would expect such
structures to appear in any complete series of organ
Iism' sI.f

refuge
     tihnetyhadtoconnovtenaiepnptear",  bolts-uhpopleos"e   we  "mimuspt ertfaekce
                                                           the
tio'nTohfatthealrlelcimorbds." should begin with integumentary
foldings, unsupported by any internal structure, seems
very strange.

1860-93] RUDIMENTARY AND DEVELOPED STRUCTURES 489

        To Professor Flower {June 30th, 1883).
I' have read with great care your most interesting
I Ilecture, so far
   ' see that
                 as published.  for  which  am looking as
                 the principle
probably to be found in biology is virtually involved
in a fact which has long been recognised in compara
tive anatomy,    and     wwhhaiclehs,yothuatspfeacciatllybeidnwg etllhiusp--onthaats
exemplified in   the

in all cases of highly-specialized organs they are nothing
more than an abnormal development of rudimentary
structures, always to be found in the generalized

forms.
   ' Thus you
specialization,  trace   tdheeveblaolpemene,nwt hoicfhceisrtaaimn o"stpappeicllualeiar"
                   to a

which are to be found in the palate structure of all the
Ima'mmnaeleiad. not say that this, so far as it goes, agrees

with my idea that on the evolution hypothesis we
ought to find structures on the way to functional im
portance, as well as structures on the way to final dis
appearance and   extinction. Of      course,  "ppaoptilelanetiaal r"e
mere germs, but  they are germs      with a
value, and are, as it were, the roots of growths which
could not have arisen without the previous establish
ment of the roots.'

        To Professor Flower {July 8th, 1883).

   ' Your second half is to me even more interesting

Ithan your first half (lectures on the whales). see that
the toothed whales have the least or smallest remnants
of the quadrupedal limbs, whilst the whalebone whales
have the largest and most distinct remains of those

Ilimbs.

   ' suppose that on the theory of loss by atrophy
and disuse this fact would point     to the   whalebone
whales being the nearest to the      parent
                                              stock --the

youngest, because the least aberrant from the original

490                     SCIENCE                       [chap. xlvi

mammalian type --so far as limbs are concerned. If

so, how does this doctrine apply to the appearance and
development of whalebone as opposed to teeth ?
Clearly, as regards them, the whalebone whales are
the most aberrant, the most differentiated from the
original type, whilst as regards the limbs, they are the
least differentiated, the least aberrant.

   ' You showed me some whale skeletons in which the
whalebone was combined with teeth in full functional
use, some in which the whalebone was quite sub
ordinate as regards use. Are we to conclude that
these are on the road to be full whalebone whales,
or are these again cases of aborted and dying out
remnants of growths which were once more fully

Idev' eAlsoperedga? rds functional use,   can't believe that
small fringes of whalebone are at all required for the
capture of ordinary fish-prey. Whalebone is a mar
vellous adaptation for the capture of minute organisms,
but for this alone ; and, therefore, the half-whalebone
whales look very much like creatures having a special
development beginning before its utility, or at least
its                has  actually arisen.
       necessity,  can   come to some     conclusion  on these
    '
       Until we
questions, we may be quite sure, indeed, of the general
fact of evolution, but we can know nothing of the

tracks which it has followed.
   ' In marine animals, if anywhere, the record may

be comparatively complete, and in the whales we may
possibly recognise the line which development has

followed.'

   The Duke always rendered justice to the great know
ledge and ability of Mr. Charles Darwin, although there

was a wide divergence of opinion between them ; and
Mr. Darwin expressed to a friend his sense of ' the
courtesy and deference ' with which he was received

by the Duke at Argyll Lodge.

1860-93] DARWIN ON THE 'CREATION THEORY'                                      491

   The following letters from the Duke to Professor
(now Sir George) Darwin contain allusions to his father,
Mr. Charles Darwin :

       To Professor Darwin {January 11th, 1888).
    I' Many years ago recollect being struck, and at
the moment puzzled, by a passage in one of your
Ifoarth' "eArct'rsefairbtsiootonksisg"htitnhethwoirhsyics"heewmhoeeudldsaaiedxspttrlhaainangt eatnhoyebthjetienctlgeio.o"nlo, gibcault

on farther thought soon saw that your father was

quite right in stating it as an objection, because an
explanation which will cover everything in general
can hardly be an explanation of anything in par
ticular.
    '"Snuabstuerqaulensetllye,ctiiotnha"s
of                                         appeared to me that the theory
                                           was so vague and metaphorical
that it is itself open to precisely the same objection.
There is no phenomenon in biology to which the
formula may not be made to apply with, perhaps, a
litt'leNoswtr,etcbhoitnhg. my papers in the Nineteenth Century
were written before your father's Life was pub
Ilished.
                                                                       the   " explain
an'yItnhinthge"laasrtguomf tehnets, eadmhaivtteinrgefeitrsrefdorcteo,   but
                                                                              pointing
out its equal applicability to metaphors which do not
I Irep'rWesheennt ,thteheprehfyosriec,al
                      causes.              to          read            the   Life,
                         came

was amused and interested to see that some nameless
friend had  ibt ro"urgahtthetrhisa
who calls                                  objection before your father,
                                           queer objection." He must
have forgotten his own old observation to the like
Ieffect.              think                                                   of it.
IHe says, "do   not                        he saw the  exact           point
               quite  agree
                                           with it."
    I' As the point has not been, think, much noticed,
Iif at all, was rather curious to know who the objector
was.'

492                                      SCTEKCE                         [chap. xlvi

            To Professor Darwin (a jew days later).
I' What mean by " explaining anything " is this :
fItathtahetex,rp,lfao"irnpsreox"vaimwsipholyne,,"ofibnNuattthuneroetc"a"swehiollowb".j"eecxtpeIldtainhtaoasnnbyotyhibnyeogau.r"r
            lpikheysmicaanl ncearu,sa"tionna.tural
ing'  on                                            selection  "  will   explain

      In
anything, because, as Herbert Spencer now admits,
it does not represent any true physical causation, or,
at least, deals with it on assumptions which can be
app' lIitedaptpoliaens yttohinagll. improvements in human machines
kqiuni'tdAe noadfsvawasreirlaletgiaoasnrdtoseqaaunnaiilmmlyaa. lls,mIfiet,chcfoaarnniesbmxea.mapppleli,edamtoonegvethrye
snipes, one bird's bill bends down and another bends
up, and a third is twisted sideways (as actually
happens), we can account for each equally well by
assuming some unknown special use as determining
both the origin and the preservation of the special
for'mI. don't know any monstrosity of form, if actually
propagated, which might not equally well be ex
plained by the same assumptions.'

  The point alluded to in this letter is dwelt upon in

the Duke's treatise on 'Organic Evolution Cross-
examined ' (p. 88), as follows :

' The truth is that the phrase " natural selection,"
and the group of ideas which hide under it, is so elastic
that there is nothing in heaven or on earth that by a
little ingenuity may not be brought under its pre
t"enhdoewd                               Darwin     inhad185b9e-1e8n60"
            veaxrpiolaunsalytio"n.  his    phrase                        wondered
                                                                         misunder
stood." The explanation is simple : it was because
coaf ptthiovsaetinvga.gueItanids           analogies which are so often
                                    loose  same now, after thirty-six
                                     the

1860-93]           NATURAL SELECTION                        493

years of copious argument and exposition. Darwin
ridiculed  t"hewaidseasetwhuipchassoamne  entertained that  natural
selection                                 active power of   deity ";
yet this is the very conception of it which is at this
moment set up by one of the most faithful worshippers
in the    t"Doafrinwrsaitntuiadranislcocsuveletlr.eecdtioPrnboyfetshDseoarrwtiPtilnoeu. ltooTfnh, iasof"dOemvxeofoltorivpde,

gives
power
ment is perfectly intelligible. Nature is the old tra
ditional refuge for all who will not see the work of
creative mind. Everything that is, everything that
happens, is and happens naturally. Nature per
sonified does, and is, our all in all. She is the universal
agent, and at the same time the universal product.
What she does she may easily be conceived as choosing
to do, or selecting to be done, out of countless alter
natives before her. Then, we have only to shut our
eyes, blindly or conveniently, to the absolute difference
between the idea of merely selecting out of already
ecoxniscteinivgabtlehintghsi,ngasndyetoftoseblee--ctinwge  by prevision out of
                                                           have only to cherish
or even to tolerate this gross confusion of thought, and
then we can cram into our theories of natural selection
the very highest exercises of mind and will. Let us
carry out consistently the analogy of thought in
volved in the agency of a human breeder ; let us
emancipate this conception from the narrow limits of

operation within which we know it to be humanly
confined ; let us conceive a strictly homologous agency
in Nature which has power not merely to select among
organs already so developed as to be fit for use, but
to select and direct beforehand the development of
organs through many embryonic stages of existence,
during which no use is possible ; let us conceive, in
short, an          "inallNoautrurme emwhbeicrhs            keeps, as it were,
a book in  agency                                          are written, which
           which
in continuance are fashioned, when as yet there are
none of them ": then the phrase and the theory of
natural selection may be accepted as at least some

494      SCIENCE                                        [chap. xlvi

thing of an approach to an explanation of the wonder
ful facts of biological development.'

   The assumption of the Darwinian school of thought
that all structures which we now find to be imperfect
or functionless are remains of structures once in full

use, but now in course of gradual effacement, was
challenged by the Duke, who considered that they
might be in many cases rudimentary organs in process
of development for future use. On this point he wrote
two articles, which appeared in the Nineteenth Century
of March and April, 1897. These articles touched on
a difference of opinion between Lord Salisbury and

Mr. Herbert Spencer, and they contain a clear expo

sition of the Duke's views on evolution.

   In connection with the question of rudimentary

organs, Professor Cossar Ewart's researches on the
subject of the electric organs of the skate excited the
interest of the Duke, who wrote to him (October 4th,

1888) :

     I' suppose the result to be that the electric organs
of fish obey the general law that all highly-specialized
organs are not new inventions, so to speak, of Nature,
but simply normal elementary structures, specially
developed for some special functions, or, in other
words, are apparatuses made out of common materials
for an uncommon purpose. This is a most interesting
generalization, and seems to me to help greatly in
reconciling the facts of development with the idea of
Icreation. . . .

   ' This apprehend to be the general result, with
this further interest -- that the change from the ordinary
motor apparatus to the highly-specialized electric
apparatus is a change   gbreaddueatlelyctemd ad"e,onso    that the
electric apparatus can                                  the rise,"
being made while as yet its utility lies wholly in

1860-93]    ELECTRIC ORGANS                                                                           495

the future. This is fatal to the Darwinian idea
of "selection" as the physical cause of such struc
tures.'

   To Professor Cossar Ewart {January 22nd, 1889).
  I' have
            read with great interest                                          your paper on the
rays --the  last sent to me. You                                              have got hold of
Ia point having the highest interest in biology and
pIthiliossonpohty,imparnodbablehoptehayt otuhewseill owrgoarnks               it thoroughly.
                                                                              will be found
Ito                                                      than is now suspected.
   'exiwstasmoterellinwgidealny                          old fisherman of mine              here  about
the skate, when he told me that he now thinks that

the common skate does give a slight shock when
handled by the tail. But he confessed that he was

hardly able to distinguish between such a very slight
shock and the mere concussion produced by napping
and wriggling. The dislike of all fishermen to handle
the skate is notorious. He reminded me that, as

several species were unarmed as to spines, it could not
be dread of them that caused the reluctance to handle

the fish.

   ' You observe in your paper that if the organ could
Ibe traced to heredity, all difficulty would be removed.

But don't admit this, because that would only
remove the difficulty a few generations farther back
to the first Placoid that began to institute these
organs.
   ' The explanation                                     you suggest --that all muscular
                                                                                            tfhaactt--thise,se
action

Iorgans
          involves electric discharges, and
          are merely a specialization of this
have no doubt, the true explanation.
   ' Evolution absolutely demands the assumption that
aplol'teHhniegtnhiaclyell-ysp--"encthaiaatluitzreaisdl,  organs must begin                  in germ,   or
                                                         bseelfeocrteiounse"  is possible.  explain   the
                                                                               can never

origin of anything. Electric organs are no exception
really, but their rarity strikes us, and exhibits very

496                                    SCIENCE                      [chap. xlvt

clearly the fallacy of putting actual use forward as a

Iphysical cause of the organ that is to be used.

   ' hope you will prosecute the subject thoroughly,
and describe the organs of the Nile Siluroids. The
variety of parts in different fish which are converted
into batteries is a point of special interest in the
general argument.'

   The correspondence between the Duke and Mr.
Herbert Spencer shows that, although on some im

portant subjects their views were widely opposed, their
public controversy on these points did not affect the
Duke's admiration of Mr. Herbert Spencer as a philo

sopher. In a letter to Mr. Spencer (March 4th,

1893) he wrote :

I' always read your books and papers with the
greatest interest, often with partial, and sometimes
Iwith entire, agreement. . . .
    '  hedrifefedritafrroymtraynosumiinssitohninkoinf g"  that the  admission   o"f
                                                          acquired  characters
the
can lift natural selection out of the difficulties and
insufficiencies which you specify as affecting it when
tmheattaptrhaonrsm"isnsiaotnuraisl  not allowed.          In my     opinion that
                                    selection," as                  by the Dar
                                                           used

winian school, labours              "  under inherent     incompetencies
to account for, or                     explain," the      phenomena of
INature, which are  not at              all
                    power              of    "reamcqeudiireedd   by the mere
admission of the                                                focrh"arsahcotewrisn.g"
Buput"    am all the more grateful to you                       or under any
        these incompetencies in any form

conditions.
   ' Meanwhile, we can all desire to ascertain facts.'

       To Mr. Herbert Spencer (December 1th, 1893).

  I' You keep the philosophic tone and temper more

perfectly than any writer know.

1860-93]      MR. HERBERT SPENCER                                                   497

                                                                                --when

                                                                                engaged
                                                                                   and
  ' It

I Iever
Iin a
          so happens that at  oftrhfoemyporpueorsleitn"itcBsm--ioolomgaeymn,t"
           can get a moment
          close examination
Ithink the tone refer to is very conspicuous there.'

     From Mr. Herbert Spencer {January Wth, 1897).

  ' Dear Duke of Argyll,

         ' That much would have been added to my
gratification had the list of names in the Times* been
reinforced by the name of one so distinguished in
various spheres, it is needless for me to say ; but its
absence is more than compensated for by the ex
pression of regret which you have been so kind as to
send me. As being joined with the expression of
partial disagreement, this is more to be valued than
did entire agreement prompt it. This manifestation
of sympathy between those whose opinions are in
considerable degrees at variance is a favourable trait
in our times, amid many traits which are unfavour

able.'

To Mr. Herbert Spencer {September 26th, 1898).

  I I' It is very kind of you to send a copy of your last

volume to such a heretic as am. shall read it with
          inotafegrrheesiegt.hlwy-isTthphe,ecreiaanlidizsedaolfwteapnyhsrasinefeoyelool guyars--wirfti--hteinrbegeshwinmadsucaha
I Igreat

that

screen

great deal more of the same coincidence of con

ceptions.'

  A clear statement of what the Duke refers to as the

' coincidence of conceptions ' between himself and Mr.

* An address of congratulation had been presented to Mr.

Herbert Spencer, signed by a number of eminent men, in recog
nition of the successful completion of his ' System of Synthetic

Philosophy.'                                                                    32

   vol. n.

498                        SCIENCE                       [CHAP. XLVI

Spencer is given in ' Organic Evolution Cross-ex
amined ' (p. 114) :

' Let us, however, provisionally at least, accept the
belief that organic life was first called into existence
in the form of some three or four or five germs, each
being the progenitor of one of the great leading types
ostfrutchteurean--imoanle  creation in respect to peculiarities of
                           for the Vertebrata, one for the Mollusca,
one for the Crustacea, one for the Radiata, and one for
the Insecta. Let us assume, farther, on the same
footing, that from each of these germs all the modifica
tions belonging to each class have been developed by
what we call the processes of ordinary generation.

Then it follows that, as all these modifications have
undoubtedly taken definite directions from invisible
beginnings to the latest results and complexities of
structure, the original germs must have been so con
stituted as to contain these complexities, potentially,
within themselves. This conclusion is not in the least
affected by any influence we may attribute to external
surroundings. The Darwinian school in all its branches
invariably dwells on external conditions as physical

causes. But it is obvious that these can never act
upon an organic mechanism except through and by
means of a responsive power in that mechanism itself
to follow the direction given to it, whether from what
wmtheei'gcThmahtloilstshitninisscikdeernittao.oinrtrIofataunctissstcsideaenocdfotehennimcntlagublssry.ioonilmogasyeg.cinuaretIlityonifs,outahnsedegsdoremoaent

peculiarity of organic development or growth that it
always follows a determinate course to an equally
determinate end. Each                                    begins to
appear before it can be    acsetupaalrlayteuseodr.ganIt  is always
built up gradually for the discharge of functions which

are yet lying in the future. In all organic growths
the future dominates the present. All that goes on
at any given time in such growths has exclusive reference

1860-93]   MB. HEBBEBT SPENCEB'S THEOBIES                                                           499

to something else that has yet to be done, in some
other time which is yet to come. On this cardinal
fact or law in biology there ought to be no dispute
with Mr. Spencer. Numberless writers before him
have, indeed, implied it in their descriptions of embryo-
Ilogical phenomena and of the later growth of adapted

organs. But, so far as know, no writer before Mr.
Spencer has perceived so clearly its universal truth,
or  has raised it     to the  rank of                                  daonfuendinamheisnta"l   principle
of                     This   he has                                                           Principles
    philosophy.
of Biology," pointing out that it constitutes the main
difference between the organic and the inorganic
world. Crystals grow, but when they have been
formed there is an end of the operation. They have
no future. But the growth of a living organ is always
premonitory of, and preparative for, the future dis
charge of              functional  activity.                           As Mr. Spencer
expresses  isto, m"e  changes in   inorganic                           things have no

apparent relations to future external events which are

sure or likely to take place. In vital changes, how
ecc"eovrnleelecrl,anrettistoeung.csehn"Terrheablealeiztikaotitrnniaosdnns.loaafrteerIdetmlaofatrninoolimnyfeswntthe.h"eei*dcshabTsitshthraia"stctmitshainenatifonewsottehrxed"
is the relation of a previous preparation for an in
tended use. Unfortunately, Mr. Spencer is perpetually
oeowsf cntahpe"insgmamaonerifewdsoetrpkarerhtleiantgsioanyfssr.o,"fm"  the consequences of his

                                                                       In a subsequent passage

                                                                       Everywhere structures in
                      determine functions." This
great measure          the manifest truth --that                                                is  exactly
the reverse of                                                                                 the   future

functions determine the antecedent growth of struc
ture. This escape from his own doctrine on the
fundamental distinction between the organic and the
inorganic world is an escape entirely governed by his
avowed aim to avoid language having teleological

    * Spencer's ' Principles of Biology,1 vol.
       Ibid., vol. ii., ch. p.
    t                                                                   ch. v., p. 73.
                                                                              32--2
                                       i.,
                                                      4.

                                                                   i.,

500                      SCIENCE                                     [chap. xlvt

implications. But surely it is bad philosophy to avoid
any fitting words because of implications which are
manifestly true, and are an essential part of their

de'scIfr,ipttihveerefpoorwe,erw. e are to accept the hypothesis that
all vertebrate animals, whether living or extinct,
have been the offspring, by ordinary generation, of
one single germ, originally created, then that original
germ must have contained within itself certain innate
properties of development along definite lines of
Igrowth, the issues of which have been forearranged
and predetermined from the first.       have elsewhere*

shown how this conception permeates, involuntarily,
all the language of descriptive science when specialists

take it in hand to express and explain the facts of
                to   others. Huxley     habitually uses the word
b" ioplloagny"       applicable to the  mechanism of all organic
                 as

frames.
   ' This is a theory of creation, by whatever other
niotaf. mtheIetmidseenvaemtlohapeymocrehynotoosf eodfteovaedlpoeupcrempivoeesnett,.hetmoIots,eilsovfeascobtuhyrescoea,ryllbinuogtf
evolution also, but of evolution in its relation to an
involution               NoItthiins gnoctanlescsomaethoeuotrythoaft  has not
first been       first.                                              creation
                put in.
which, whether true or not, gets rid absolutely of
the elements of chance so valued by Darwin's more
fanatical followers, and of the mere mechanical neces
sity which seems to be favoured by Mr. Spencer.'

                   Miscellaneous Zoology.

   The following letter to Professor Owen is an evidence
of the thorough manner in which the Duke investigated
every subject on which he might be called upon to
express an opinion :

                          * ' Philosophy of Belief,' ch. iii.

1860-93] CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROFESSOR OWEN 501

          To Professor Owen {July Uh, 1854).
' Discussions have repeatedly arisen in Parliament
in reference to the prohibition of dog-carts, upon the
point whether or not dogs are physically unfitted for
use as draught animals. Perhaps this question can
not be answered in the abstract, as local conditions,
and the great power of adaptability found in breeding
for a specific purpose, may enable dogs to be used, as
in Siberia and other Northern regions, for purposes of
draught, without doing great violence to the physical
capabilities of the animal.
   ' The question must probably be answered, therefore,
with special reference to the land of use to which dogs
are put, as draught animals, on the hard, dry roads of
England.
  I' am
Iextent --
          putting to you   a leading    question to a certain
         that is to say,   have the     strongest impression
on my mind that the physical organization of the dog

does not point it as intended for this sort of use, and
that the circumstances and conditions under which it
Ican  be so used are the exception and not
     ' should very much like to have your     the rule.
                                              opinion upon
this matter. Next Monday there is to be another dis
cussion on the subject in the House of Lords, and a
division probably on a proposed prohibition of dog
carts.'

From Professor Owen {March 6th, 1865), acknowledging
        an article by the Duke on the Flight of Birds.
  I' My dear Duke,

          ' have had very great pleasure in the perusal

Iof the enclosed ; it is the best account of flight with

which am acquainted. The very few impulses to a
marginal note have been made with misgiving and a
         With              thanks,
query.         m' Manoyst   faithfully

                                        your  Grace's,
                                              ' Rd. Owen.'

502                             SCIENCE                         [chap. xlvi

     To Sir Richard Owen {March Uh, 1885).
  I' Many

that you
     thcoannskisderforthyeouArulsettrtaelri,anfro"mdiwnghoich"    gather
                                                                to have

been an immigrant along with the featherless biped,
      not an indigenous mammal in        Australia.
     My reason for asking is that         have had
Iand                                                            a  letter
    '
from an Australian Bishop (not indigenous, clearly),
finding fault with my statement that there was no
                  athheor"ritbigleer                 of our dear
Inative dog, but only

carnivore, alluding to
  I' The                                 caricature
                                          wolf."
gotten                          Bishop thinks that have for
     tnhoen-i"nddiignegnoou"s;  but as that was clearly non-
indigenous, was right           enough.'

On the movement of diatoms, which he had been

studying with the microscope, the Duke wrote to Sir
John Murray (March 15th, 1887) :
' It is not like mere ciliary movement. It is
Ithoroughly under apparent control, with many inci
dents truly animal in their character.   saw one form
fairly kick at some adherent dirt, with signs of im
Ipatience and irritation quite Gladstonian. The means
of movement are inscrutable.             have watched them

in a fine light, and with so high a power as to show
Iall the flutings, etc., and flagella of adjacent organisms.

Yet see no signs of cilia or of currents in the water.
Pure volition !'

   Inveraray is situated on the shores of Loch Fyne,
which is noted for the extraordinary abundance of
herring to be found in its waters. The movements of
these fish are sudden, swift, and capricious ; the shoals
appear and disappear in what seems to be an almost
wholly arbitrary manner. These mysterious migra
tions greatly interested the Duke, and he mentions the
subject in a letter to Sir John Murray (November 17th,

1891)j

1860-93]           LOCH FYNE FISHERIES                                     503

I I IIdsoema' le--wpbaluastyanwoofaybhiegarlrfliinslhags. tfrwyWehienekn.theBcelaofomcrhee--bianlcdekefteladts,htearSeagtwouoards

day heard that the big herring were in the deep.
One boat got a good many near Strone Point. That
night lots of boats came up from Skipness, Carradale,

Ietc., and on Sunday there was a fleet at the pier.
went out last night in the launch, and saw them
setting the drift-nets all over the loch. Trawlers got
none, but drifters got a good fishing. To-night we
counted one hundred and fifty boats between this and
Kenmore.                                       them in            the deep.
How the           They say they feel                              a glorious
                deuce did they come ?            It was
sight this evening at sunset. All down the loch the
boats in groups all along the shore and in mid loch.
Wouldn't you like to come to see the fleet and expis-
cate the facts ?'

       To Sir John Murray {November 10th, 1893).

' Have you been dredging at all this year ? These
Loch Fyne herrings are a profound mystery. For the
last three weeks there seemed to be none here ; no
boats ; reports of their being down at Otter. Sud
denly this afternoon (a lovely one) a whole fleet ap
peared, and their sails and their smoke and their oars
in the still water were too beautiful. No artist has
Iever been able to represent such a scene.
                                                                           was

dasrikviwnghataloitngwatsheallroaabdo,ut.and"  stopped    the carriage       to
                             But               Plenty   of herring !"      one

boat shouted    out.       been   "thfeelyt    "dibdy  not   know exactly
where. They     had                                     one  or two crews

accidentally,   and some very fine             "fisaht  wseeare"  at breakfast
this morning    ; but the fleet was                               as to where

to catch them, so they were watching all the bays
and creeks.
    '
else   Tthoey"   seem to   anmdovtheenabsouudtdenwlyith"  great   'speed,  or
                lie low,"                                 rise."

504                              SCIENCE                   [chap. xlvi

     My dear Murray,                      ' April 10th, 1896.

       I' You may commit any manner of poaching out
rage you like on my salmon waters.                    want much to
Iknow about kelts : what they do, where they go, and
what they eat in the sea.        think one case is known

of a salmon caught by a herring-net some forty miles
off the land on the East Coast.
   ' The flat-fish caught in great numbers by lines in
the Sound of Iona is a largish fish, of a yellow-brown,
with very large spots of an orange-red. They are good
when very fresh, but the flesh is very soft, and the
Ibottom they affect is pure sand.

   ' have caught in Loch Fyne very large flounders
with similar large spots, but the ground colour is much
I I Idar'ker,wispherhapcsoufrldomdraesdsgime ilawtiiothn
                                          to a darker habitat.
                                                          should like
                                          you.
much to see the fauna well searched. The large
flounders are common near the head of the loch, in
                                 of that region.
the shallower water              salmon don't ascend
    '  Y--otuheknmoidwdltehaotf  June or so.'                      till
                                                      our  rivers
late

   From the Duke's letters to Mr. Harvie Brown on
the subject of ornithology a few passages are quoted :

         To Mr. Harvie Brown {March 2nd, 1888).

  I' have never seen any notice of the peculiar habits

of the heron at the pairing season. All birds, as you
know, have some peculiarities of manner at that

season. Storks and cranes seem (at the Zoological
Gardens) to dance and caper on their long legs. The
herons fly round in circles with a soaring flight, fre
quently stretching out their necks at nearly full length,
which they never do in ordinary flight. The balance
of the bird seems to require the long neck to be folded.
But at this season, when love-making, they extend
the neck and float about in the air in wheeling circles,
round and above the trees where they are to nest.

1860-93]                       ORNITHOLOGY                            505

   ' Yesterday morning, which was fine and sunny,
there were nine herons floating and soaring in wide
circles above the castle here, and in front of the steep
wooded hill on which they build.
    ' The roller was first seen by me here on October 3rd,
1887, in the wild ground       of the deer park. Its habits
were markedly peculiar.          After lighting on a tree it
sat quite still, like a shrike, and then darted suddenly
                                              its perch like a fly-catcher.
                                             head, saw that the flight
Ito
    'tWhehgernouint df,lerwetouvrneringmyto
was also very peculiar. Its wings were much longer
than our jay, the primaries well separated at the tips,
but not forming a very round-ended wing, like a jay
or a crow. Its flight was flappy, but very strong, and

it had the habit of descending before rising to a perch
    'jaItys
as            do.
             remained
                            for more than    a week     in the same

locality,    and on    owneithoccthaesiopnouwlatrsys.eenItclowseastovearkyeewpaerry's,
cottage      feeding
             keepers could not        get at it.
             great grey shrike        has been
Iand the                                          seen  by        me  twice
   ' The
here, and on the last occasion got the bird, and it is
now stuffed in the hall. On both occasions it came in

November.
   ' The great spotted woodpecker has been shot here
twice, once about fifty years ago, and again about
I Ifift'eTenheyeoasrpsreaygo.     have both specimens.
                             have seen once. The black-throated
diver comes sometimes to the small moor lochs on the
hills.'

          To Mr. Harvie Brown {February 5th, 1889).

    ' The story about my starlings is very simple.
Having seen the bird in America, and having read
accounts of its habits, it struck me that if any American
bird could be introduced into Europe and established
tIhteirse,vethryis  would                    be a species likely  to thrive.
                    pretty  probably         hardy in the New     World
                            and very

506                          SCIENCE                       [chap. xlvi

I' Accordingly, asked a friend in New York to send
me a small consignment of the red-shouldered starling
Ialive. He did so three years ago. The birds arrived

in good condition in October, but thought it would
be better to keep them till spring before turning them
out, as migratory instincts might interfere if they were
let out late in autumn. They throve quite well all
through the winter, only two or three having died.

In May about seven couple were turned out. They
were seen about the place for a few weeks, and then
disappeared. One or two were recorded as having
been seen and shot in different parts of Scotland.
My keepers think they saw a small party next autumn,
and one or two were recorded that autumn as having
been seen at one of the lighthouses in the South of
Ireland, as if they were trying to migrate across the
ocean. None have ever been seen since in this neigh
bourhood. As there is here a good deal of swampy

Imeadowland, with bushes, in one of the glens, thought
Ithey might have found a habitat such as, believe,
the' yThperinatctiepmallpyt  affect in America.
                             to acclimatize or naturalize  the  species
has, so far, been a complete failure ; but, as all new
Ibirds are speedily shot, or at least fired at, in this
country, the failure is hardly surprising.                 had hoped,
too, that they might have consorted with the common
starling, and thus escaped special notice, but the types
are too distinct for this.'

          To Mr. Harvie Brown {March 8th, 1889).

  I' have not got your book on the capercailzie, and

should be delighted to have it, if you are kind enough
to send it to me. Some came here about fifteen years
ago, and established themselves for a few years ; but
they have disappeared, several having been killed
against the wire fences. None were shot.

  I' Squirrels were unknown here in my younger days,

and have no idea how they came. But they have

1860-93]  BTRDS AT INVERARAY                                                                     507

been established for at least twenty years, and became
so numerous as nearly to ruin my fine silver firs, on

I Iwhich (alone, think) they are most destructive.
Ihave now shot them down to a small number, and the
silver firs are already recovering.                                                              was born and

Ibrought up at Ardencaple on the Clyde, and never saw

a squirrel till went to England. They are now
common both at Arden Caple and at Rosneath.

  I' The same thing is true of the starling. There were

none on the Clyde or here when was a boy. Now
they are abundant in both places. Here they have
come within the last fifteen years, and are increasing.

  I' The yellow-hammer is decreasing, alas ! rapidly.
hardly ever see them here now, and they used to be
Icom' Imno1n8. 41-1845 the swallow-tailed kite was abundant
here.         have seen  nine sailing  --roaullndkitlhleedcaostflfe.                                They
have      disappeared     absolutely                                                             by the

keepers. No doubt they were very destructive.'

       To Mr. Harvie Brown {November 30th, 1890).
I' have not seen the harrier for many years. They
Ialso have been destroyed. But about twenty years

ago found the nest and eggs on one of our moors
here. The kingfisher comes at intervals. We had a
I I INcoouv' peTlmheebheegrr.reaythTsihsherliaklesatstSeohpnateevme bs"eeres.necutwreiscdae,w",
                                                                                                 them myself.
                                                                                                 both times in

                                                                                                 and it is now
stuffed in the hall here. This was about five years

Iago'.Th. e.
          .               diver        have seen several

          black-throated

times, once on a moor loch, and last winter in Loch

IFyne.
   ' am distressed by the diminution in our cole-tits.

They were numerous here till the severe winter of 1886,

but they have never recovered it. The tree-creeper,

also, is rarer than it was. The quail has been re
peatedly shot in Kintyre, but not of late years.'

508              SCIENCE                           [chap. xlvi

        To Mr. Harvie Brown {February Sth, 1891).
   ' Two friends of mine have been shooting in my
island of Tiree, and the account they give of the wild
fowl there is wonderful. On one fresh-water loch they
counted one hundred and five wild swans, besides packs
of fifteen and twenty on other lakelets. They killed
three Gadwall ducks, but the geese were unapproach
able. Snipes in enormous quantity. They killed six
hundred and forty-one in seven days. Turnstones and
stints were there, but only one greenshank. This bird

is getting rarer.'

     To Mr. Harvie Brown {March 2±th, 1891).

I' was just about to write a line to you to tell you
                 ysetisltlermdaayki--ngtheanlaotecsctasiionnathl e
I Iof the

ance.
     brambling                                                      appear
        saw one                                                      year
have ever seen. But the severity of the weather both
south and north of us keeps birds here which do not
wish to face such conditions. The golden-eyes here
show no signs of leaving us. . . .

  I' saw a fine pair of buzzards yesterday wheeling
Iround a ravine in which they used often to breed.
am desiring my keeper to let them alone.'

     To Mr. Harvie Brown {September 30th, 1891).
' It may interest you to know that we are now
honoured with the presence here of a large snowy owl.

My keepers seem to have seen it for three or four days,
but yesterday it flew across in front of the Duchess,
who, with a party, all stopped    to          the  wonderful
big white bird, which seemed to  her  assee"  big  as a white

heron."

  ' It is in my deer park, preying probably on rabbits,
which abound this year. Late south-west gales of great
violence have probably brought it from the Outer

Hebrides.

  I' have just heard that the stormy petrel was seen
Iyesterday on the loch, the first have ever heard of.'

1860-93]  LEAF-BEDS IN THE ISLE OF MULL  509

                Geology and Paleontology.

    Geology was one of the Duke's favourite scientific

Istudies. ' This,' he once wrote, ' is the particular

 branch of science with which am best acquainted ;
 none other affords such signal illustrations of that in
 which all science consists ; its triumphs, its limita
 tions, its temptations, and its weaknesses, have been
 all equally conspicuous.' His paper on the ' Leaf Beds
 in the Isle of Mull,' read before the Geological Society
 of London on January 8th, 1851, will, in the opinion
 of scientists, always be remembered by geologists as
 first establishing, by means of the leaves of tertiary
 plants found buried beneath basaltic rocks, the im
 portant fact that large volcanic outbursts have taken
place in the British Isles so lately as in tertiary times.

From Professor Owen {January 2%th, 1859), in reference

    to a lecture which the Duke had delivered at Glasgow.

   I' everywhere hear your lecture spoken of as an

extraordinary summary of the main points of actual
geology in so limited a space.'

           From Sir Charles Lyell {May, 1859).

  I' have been reading your lecture on geology

with much pleasure at spare moments during a tour
of ten days in Holland. To have conveyed so much
information accurately, without the use of technical
language, is alone a great point gained.'

      To Sir John Murray {February 10th, 1888).

  I I' think told you of the working-man geologist

who has turned up at Campbeltown. He has made
an interesting discovery of organic remains in the
old red limestone strata near Campbeltown. So far

510                           SCIENCE                      [chap. xlvi

Ias I know, this is the first time they have been detected
in any old red  strata  in    the West Highlands.          know
the bed well.                 well-marked one in the
                It is   a                                  series

between the    Mull    of Kintyre and              the     coal-basin to
the north.             highly crystalline          and     even silicious
              It is a                                      burnt for lime
limestone   opflacaesy. ellIowhiasvhe-wohftiteen,          for fossils, but
at several                                         much
                                                   looked
its compact silicious fracture left little hope of it.
But this man has found a weathered surface which
reveals, by solution of the lime, the silicious casts of
Ia richly fossiliferous rock.          am much pleased with
I Ithis discovery, and want you to tell me to whom
should send the specimen in Edinburgh as the best

Iauthority. want to keep it as a Scottish discovery ;
Ibut don't know any expert in Scotland to be com
          with Etheridge at the  British Museum.
Ipar' ed  am sure that if the    specimen were sliced      the

I Ifossils would be seen, not only on the weathered sur
face, but all through the rock.                    think can now just
detect and trace them in the fresh fractures, crystal
Iline though they be.         have written to congratulate
IGray, to encourage him, and have told him would
communicate it to the Royal Society of Edinburgh.'

     To Sir John Murray {September 26th, 1888).
I' am much excited. I have just discovered organic
remains in one of our quartzite beds here ! Never
was there such a proof that our eyes can only see what

the mind prepares them to see. Here am I, having
passed this rock by carriage on one side of it and by

Iboat on another side of it, and never saw what to-day
I Ihave seen at the first glance when went prepared
to see.
I I"
f'uOconidm"y   late   cruise  had been reading about the
              bed    in the   Sutherland quartzites.       had
it in my head to look to see whether such obscure
markings might not be detected in the very few beds
of like material which exist here. Then, a road sur

1860-93]                     FOSSILS                        511

Iveyor had broken a fresh surface for " metal."
Ipassed it to-day, sent my servant to bring a bit, and

lo ! saw not only some obscure markings, but lots
o"f    very  coluetar"  plant remains in red oxide of         iron,
     picked             against the pure white silicious    grains
I Iof the rock.
                        can be mistaken.               The fossil
   ' don't think
consists of small ramifying tubes of oxide of iron and
of seed-vessels on small stalks ; the tubes, when broken,
show a vascular and linear structure on the inside.

IThe berries or capsules are unlike any plant know--
small oval bodies on stalks.'

   These fossil forms were the subject of much dis

cussion with several authorities. It was eventually

decided that they were ' old annelid tubes sheared by
rock movements.' Specimens of the fossils were after
wards placed in the Geological Museum in London.
Another discovery was announced on January 10th,

1890 :

     I' My dear Murray,          line  to  tell  you  that  to-day                   I
            ' write a hastysotfrikscinhgis--t fpuulrleowf hwietell-pcraersbeornvaetde
have discovered a bed
corals. They are very
of lime, quite crystalline, flattened, but with the surface
flutings not destroyed. The effect of the pure white
plates interf oliated in blue mica schist is very beautiful.
   ' They are near the summit level of the pass over
to Loch Awe, in a wee quarry opened for road metal,
and the coach passes it every day, the wheels almost
in   the   rubbish.
           is the more                                 I got from
     ' It               curious  as    only yesterday

Geikie four specimens of Norwegian schist showing
obscure casts of coral, and a letter advising me to
Ilook whether any holes in our rocks might not be
corals.      saw white spots in driving past to-day to

see the sunset on Cruachan, and on returning got out

512           SCIENCE              [CHAP. XLVI

Iand looked.  was astonished to    whole slab of

rock covered with interleaved, flattened, linear cakes
of pure white marble. . . .
   ' What a mystery these rocks are ! Some so meta

morphosed, others so unaltered. This bed looks like
squeezed mud, argillaceous, shiny, soapy, greeny. A
I Ilittle above it is a bed of limestone, blue, destitute of
fossils, so far as have seen yet.  now suspect it
to be a triturated coral rock, metamorphosed by some
Iagency, yet the next bed below in the series is what
  have described.'

     Geographical Discovery.

   The great advance made in geographical research
during the last fifty years of the nineteenth century
opened up the African continent to European enter
prise. First among the names of explorers in that
region is that of David Livingstone, whose imperially-

minded projects the Duke always advocated. From
the heart of Africa, Livingstone wrote letters full of
statesmanlike insight, describing the difficulties which
he was so heroically surmounting, and urging the
Duke to support his representations to the Govern

ment. Dr. Livingstone always showed grateful recog
nition of the support and encouragement he had
received from Inveraray.

   From Tette Dr. Livingstone wrote (March 5th,

1859) :

   ' The renewal of the slave-trade, on the pretence
of carrying out the French emigration scheme, has
forced the conviction on my mind more strongly than
ever that an English colony ought to be attempted in

Ithe interior of this country. You threw out this idea

once when had the honour of calling on you, and
every day since then the scheme has grown in im

portance.'

1860-93]             CHRISTMAS ISLAND                                 513

As President of the Royal Scottish Geographical

Society, the Duke had occasion to write officially to

Mr. Henry Stanley on his return from Africa in April,
1890. In his letter the following passage occurs :

   ' We desire to congratulate you most heartily on

Iyour safe return from Central Africa. Personally,
Ihave a special interest in your great success, for
Icannot forget that you brought back to me the last
letter     ever received from my dear friend David

Livingstone, when, with equal courage and determina
tion, you had reached and succoured him in the same

regions.'

Referring to Sir John Murray's scheme for the

annexation of Christmas Island to the British Crown,

and for the exploitation of its rich deposits of phos

phates, the Duke wrote (February 26th, 1888) :

  I' am much amused by your proposed alliance
between              commerce, and                   the   Foreign    Office.
           science,                                   the  island is  in the
I Iwill do           to help you. If
           all can
I IAIdnitfdfeialreenansctOe, ce"and(,otoubsutuspewphoetshteheeirtrewgwuoelualrsdhobpuehldracos"en)ssiedeaenrewydithootuhirensr.
Power take possession of an island in the Bay of
IBen' gaslhoour ldanywwrhiteeretoofLfotrhde  Indian coast. . . .
                                             Salisbury at once,   advising
Ithoimgitvoinmgaake"ocnoenocef sosuiorns"hiposf      formal possession. As
                                               take  don't know how these
                                               it,
matters are settled under our system. But the national
            first thing to
              is the man
Ipos' sLeysosinonPilsaytfhaeir                             to.
                                               be looked   his  ...      to
                                               who turns
                                                                science
commercial use most of all the men know. He

would swoop down on your islet like an osprey !'

 I To Sir John Murray {a few days later).

' wrote a private note to Lord Salisbury, telling
him he had better annex Christmas Island, and he has

set on the Admiralty.'
vol. n.
                                                                  33

514                    SCIENCE     [chap. xlvi

     Raised Beaches : Glaciation.

     From the Duke's Natural History Diary, 1876.

I' have to-day examined more carefully some of
Ithe raised beaches on the west side of Jura, near the
mouth of Loch Tarbert.  found that the level of

the first or lowest, at the point where we anchored,
was about 50 feet above the level of the present sea,
as measured by an aneroid constructed for such
measurements. This beach is so perfect that the back
curve of the wave, or, rather, back slope, is as perfect

as if the surf had left it yesterday. The next beach
above it was about 75 feet ; and a third, very well

Imarked, from its forming a sort of embankment across

a natural hollow, was, as nearly as could make out,
about 125 feet. After returning to the yacht, and

when trawling on the Tarbert Bank, it seemed to
me, judging by the eye (which, however, is very
deceptive as to levels), that several of the raised beaches
Ifurther to the north along the same line of hills were

decidedly higher in elevation ; and therefore believe
my recollection is correct that Captain Bedford, the
surveying officer, reported some of them as reaching
the height of 160 feet. They are indeed most striking
Itobjects, and one speculates whether the elevation of

the land which they indicate was general or local.
is clear that they are the marks of a sea which is
retiring and not advancing, because a rising sea would
have obliterated at each successive stage of sub
Imergence the terraces of rolled pebbles which had
been made previously.   think it clear, too, that the
elevation was by hitches. The pebbles at the 50-foot
level are much more completely rolled than at the
I75-foot level, and, again, the highest one of all, which
   visited to-day, was more completely rolled than
the 75-foot.

   ' The quartz strata in the island of Islay are tilted
to nearly the perpendicular, whereas in Jura they are

1860-93]        A PREHISTORIC DWELLING                    515

much    less steeply  inclined, and        dip to   the north-east.
       evident that   the Sound of         Islay   marks a line of
It is
structural disturbance, whatever agencies may have
I Itaken advantage of this line to deepen and widen the
disconnection.        think can trace on the Islay shore

two series of quartzites with mica slate and limestone
intercalated between them, as in the typical Suther
land section.

' July 22nd. -- On the 17th we visited the island
of Eilean an Naoimh, which is now identified with the
Insula Hiruba of the Columban Age, and found it
very remarkable, both archaeologically and geologically.
The island and the islets all round consist of stratified
rocks highly inclined to the north-west, presenting a
precipitous face to the opposite coast of Mull, and a
sloping face towards Scarba on the east and south-east.
The beds on the eastern shore, which must be the upper
Iones of the whole, are of a conglomerate unlike any
other conglomerate             have seen. The pebbles are
much more thinly distributed in the embedding paste,
and they are of quite different materials from those of
the neighbouring conglomerates near Oban.

  I' Archaeologically, the most interesting remain is a

beehive house, of which have never before seen any
specimen. The whole structure is shaped like a
beehive, formed of slaty stones, each course or layer
projecting slightly beyond the lower one, and thus
gradually approximating along the lines of a dome-
shaped roof. The entrance appears to have been like
a covered drain entering the basement. Those who
entered it must have had to creep on hands and knees.
IThe orifice of this entrance is complete, being built
of well-fitted  flaIgtstorenmesi,ndsbutme  did not take   the
measurements.                              very much of   the

mthoedEeskoifmoen. traIntceis  provided    in the winter houses of
                               built on a  ledge among outcropping
strata of the natural rock, and when complete must
have been almost invisible from any distance. At
                                                   33--2

516               SCIENCE                                              [chap. XLVI

present it attracts attention from the sea because one
side has fallen down, and the rest of the structure
presents the aspects of a cave with its mouth fronting
to the east.

   ' There are several other buildings, all apparently of
a much later date, for all of them present the usual
gable ends of an ordinary cottage. One of them,
indeed, has one end only constructed with rectangular
walls and the other end rounded. This cottage is
               in that one-half    of its interior is built
also  curious  to the level of a  high platform --as high                   up
with  stones                                                                as
a man's breast. This half is the one terminating in
a rounded wall, and looks very much like a dormitory
raised from the ground for the sake of dryness.'

To Lord Kelvin, then Sir William Thomson {June 12th,

                  1883).

   ' Have   you  coanncyeivpahbylesicparloceexsps --lanbaytiownhicohf  the  pro
cess --of  any                                                         the  land

Ican have been let down to the extent of at least

2,000 feet during the great glacial submersion ?
believe you have arrived at the conclusion that the
crust of the earth has a very high degree of rigidity,
comparable to that of some of the metals. Of course,
material of this degree of rigidity will bend under
adequate stress ; but what can have been the stress
Iunder which the crust first sunk and then rose again,
so as to account  for the glacial submersion       ? assume
                  impressed upon me by             innumerable
the fact. It is
facts which seem to me not otherwise to be accounted
for. Yet geologists and physicists seem to me all to
shirk it as a fact to be accounted for.'

      To Sir John Murray {August 8th, 1890).

  I' Have  you   ever seen   thI ewipsahraylloeul  roads of Glen-
            you   have not,                         would go and
roy ? If
examine them.     am secretly convinced that the

1860-93]             THE GLENROY ROADS                                      517

Iaccepted explanation of glacier --dammed lakes --is a
false theory. At least,                      have a very strong im
pression that it is so, and that the terraces, after all,
are due to marine action during a re-elevation by

hitches. It is purely the difficulty of realizing this
cause that forces men to invent ice-barriers which
assume ice-sheets on a scale that probably never
existed. The difficulty that used to intimidate me
is that   such marine            BaucttionI  ought to have left similar
marks     elsewhere.                         see my way round this

objection. There are other phenomena elsewhere.
T"hpeargarlalenld  rroaaidsesd"  beaches on   the west side of     Jura
                                             senses than one,               are
                                  in more                           and     no

maniac even will pretend that glaciers dammed up
the sea there.
   ' Forbye, such terraces are only formed and kept
under very peculiar conditions, and it is no wonder
that these are uncommon.'

To Sir John Murray {October 2nd, 1890).
  I' Many

Darwin's
             thanks for          thaestoGnlieshnmroeynts.eriesI.t       have read
             paper with                                            seems to me

admirable and unanswerable, and yet he abandoned
it all, under the influence of the ice mania, without
Iany attempt to answer his own former reasoning.
    ' am     now     thoroughly convinced that                     "thseat  Glenroy
roads are            sea-lochs, when Scotland                                low in
the water    "olodf
                     the glacial sea, and strong tides raced
through the cross channels which divided the whole
cou' Tnhtrey ainrgtuomaengtr,ou"pWohf yislsahnodusl.d the sea mark Glenroy
alone ?" is answered by the abundant evidence that
there are similar lines elsewhere in many places ; but
all are now equally explained, not only by ice-barriers,
but by ice-walls, both sides, or one side, being assumed
to have been the sides of ice-sheets !
   ' Then, Greenland is always quoted, when Green
land ice does not do the work assigned to the mythical

ice-sheet.'

518                       SCIENCE                      [chap. xlvi

     To Sir John Murray {April 25th, 1893).

   ' How long one may live in a country and not

Isee all that is to be seen, if the mind is awakened to

some one point ! have just awoke to the curiosity
and significance of the extraordinary difference be
tween the two parallel glens here of the Aray and the
Shira. The glen of the Aray is one mass of glacial
mounds and of erratics of all shapes and sizes. Glen-
shira is quite free of glacial mounds, and has only a
few scattered erratics, just enough to show that they
are not covered up and concealed in that way.

   ' Why this difference ? In what do they differ to
account for it ? Glenshira opens from the higher

mountain land of the two. There is no mountain
mass above, or at the top of Glenaray anything like
the mountain mass of Benbuy and its outlying ridges.
Therefore, if the Glacial Age was marked by great
local glaciers, Glenshira must have been occupied by

a more powerful mass of ice than Glenaray. In fact,

Benbuy is the typical local mountain for sending off
a local glacier. Yet the glen has no glacial mounds at
all, and the erratics on its flanks and sides are com

par' aWtihvaetly,  few.   is the  difference  between  the            two
                   then,

glens ? One difference is patent. Glenaray is open
at the top towards the north-north-west. Glenshira is
shut up or closed in that direction by a high screen
of steep mountain ridges.

   ' In short, it is a glen sheltered from a north-
north -west drift of heavy floating floes, which, in
my opinion, was the agency during the "great sub
mergence" which did most of our polishing, scraping,
and scratching.
   ' Be it  --aorwebshaeilcrlvhleodics,aol.fhoCwrIueahvcaehvra,enotnhglaryatnfiottehu,endanmodanettheesritaoplnseea--kins

Glenaray
a boulder
of Cruachan look                           Igflean,glbauctierfrohmad
the deep hollow            right down the                             across
                          of Loch Awe.                                 come

1860-93]           MARINE DEPOSITS                                         519

direct from Cruachan to the low col at the top of
Glenaray, of course it would have carried lots of
ICruachan granite to us. But there are no indications

of this ; one small boulder is all have seen from that
quarter. The other boulders are angular lumps of
all kinds, and are all fragments of the local walls, which
        high and steep.
are     Glenshira is low       in  the  floor,  the  local           lake  once
     '

reaching up four miles, now only one mile from filling
up. So here, again, we see that a local glacier will not
dig out or excavate even very soft material, unless,
indeed, the lake deposits have all been post-glacial,
which is impossible.'

               To Sir John Murray {April 3rd, 1895).

' You seem to have done full justice to my paper,

Ialth' ouagmh   a  dissenter.  man  !   Each new discussion only
               an  obstinate

confirms me, because of the (to me) weakness of the
objections. How can any man maintain that marine
deposits most always contain marine organisms ? Is
it not notorious   t"harat,isaesd abfeaacct,hetshe"yadlloronuont d?    We have
                                                                     the coast,
lots of admitted

Iconsisting of sands and gravels, and not a single shell.

Diatoms don't know about. They have never been
exhaustively searched for. But even as regards them,
would you really give up the marine origin of raised
Ibeaches because no diatoms exist in them ?                                don't
believe you would. Why, then, use this argument
Ias of any real weight when applied to higher levels ?

  should like to impose on you the labour of searching
with a microscope for diatoms in unquestioned beach
gra'vTehlsena,ndassatnodsfl.oe-ice not scratching because a few
individuals have not seen it doing so : what evidence
is this against that of Arctic navigators, who tell us
how they saw floes of great thickness piled up against
each other and lifted over reefs in Smith's Sound,

520              SCIENCE                           [CHAP. XLVl

whilst all the shore ice is armed with stones, frozen
into their lower surfaces ? What more effective grind
ing machine could be devised ?
   ' Again, how can perched blocks on the tops of ridges

be accounted for by "free sheets"? Nordenskiold
says the idea is ridiculous as applied to the Greenland

Iice-sheet.      feel to stand " four-square to all the winds

   ' In short,
that blow," or, at least, that have hitherto blown.'

   This theory of the general submergence of the land
since the time of the first appearance of man upon the
earth is further developed by the Duke in an article
entitled ' The Glacial Theory,' in the Nineteenth Century
of 1894, and in a communication to the Royal Society
of Edinburgh in 1895, under the title of ' Two Glens
and the Agency of Glaciation.'

                 Physics and Chemistry.

     To Professor Tyndall {December 31st, 1875).

' Will you forgive me bothering you on a question
of definition, with regard to heat and light ?
   ' The definition of purely scientific ideas constitutes
a sort of borderland between physics and metaphysics,
which     is of  extreme interest and importance.
   ' Sir   W.    Grove has objected to calling by  the  name

of light any rays (or undulations) which do not pro
duce the sensation of light on the human retina.

This, however, is a purely verbal question, and it
seems to me that if the undulations which do not pro
duce the sensation are precisely of the same general
character and quality as those which do, differing
only in period, it is the most true representation of
Ithe facts to call them by one general name.
                                                        feel
   ' This, therefore, is not the kind of difficulty
in admitting the alleged identity of heat and light.

1860-93]       THE SUN AND GRAVITATION                                      521

ILight, as understand it, is an undulation in pure
ether, and would be light to sensation if no other
medium existed.

   ' But heat -- that is to say, sensible heat, heat that
idsoems emaescuhraabnliecalbwy odrkil--ataistinoont  of substances, heat that
                                                     producible by the ethereal
undulations until they come into contact with other
substances, and until they set up in those substances
cor'reBsuptontdhienguntdreumlaotrios.ns of the ether which excite or
produce this motion in other substances can no more
be called heat than the vibrations of a harp-string
can be called sound where there is no atmosphere to

con' vNeoyws,oiusntdh.is a correct analogy           ?    If light  alone -- the
pure ethereal undulation, whether                                   not-- were
                                                        visible or
the sole factor in what we know as heat, then we could
Inot have the most intense cold in interstellar space,
as we know there is.     can understand saying that
light is the cause, or an essential condition, of heat,
but not that the two are identical.'

          To Lord Kelvin {February 9th, 1882).

I' My attention was drawn to the paragraph en
close some months ago. Is there any truth in the
statement that organic matter has been found in
Imeteorites
    ' have    ?    much  puzzled                     about  the strict accuracy

             been

of your recent statement about the sun as the ultimate
source of all our terrestrial energy. Gravitation seems
the ultimate source to which we can trace most forms
of energy, possibly even those of heat and light. Of
course, the sun is the body to which the earth gravi
tates, but, on the other hand, all terrestrial bodies
gravitate to the earth's centre, and to this gravitating
force almost   all terrestrial energies are
   ' Even the   energy of the solar heat                    due.     water  in

                                                            lifting
the form of vapour would be useless as a source of

522                             SCIENCE                           [chap. xlvt

energy were it not for the existence of terrestrial

Ifgravitation, which makes it fall again as rain.

we knew the physical cause of gravitation, we might
identify a source of energy one step farther back;
but until this cause is known it seems to me that
gravitation is (to us) the ultimate source of energy in
matter. Is this not true ?'

  ITo this question Lord Kelvin replied : ' Yes, believe

it is.' He also answered in the affirmative the Duke's
proposition regarding gravitation as the source to which
most forms of energy, including heat and light, might
be traced : ' Yes, and the sun owes his energy to mutual
gravitation between portions of matter coming together
to form his mass.' Referring to the energy of solar
heat, Lord Kelvin noted : ' But mechanical work can
be got from sun heat here without intervention of
terrestrial gravity.'

     To Professor Tyndall {November 11th, 1882).
    I' found in London that you had been kind enough
to send me a copy of your paper on the relations of
Ivapours to radiant heat.               have read it with much
Iinterest, and have just now also read your little
Ipaper in Longman, which touches on the same subject.

  write now to thank you very much for your kindness
in sending to me the first of these papers, and also to
ask you a question which arises out of a paragraph in
the second.

  ' It happens to touch a matter which it has fallen
Iin 'myrewfeary      tthhein"k  about
                 to             atomic  la"tethlye. ory  of  the  constitution
                 to
of matter. You say that this atomic theory is the
direct outcome and result of the discovery of the law
of                                in chemical combinations.
    'mNuolwti,plaes  proportions  fact, we know that the ancient
                     a matter of

philosophers had reached the conception of atoms as

1860-93]           THE ATOMIC THEORY               523

the ultimate constituents of matter, although they
knew nothing of the laws of chemical affinity.
   ' You must mean, then, that the atomic theory has
been raised from a mere speculation to a consistent
and strictly scientific conclusion by the discovery of
the                law of multiple proportions.
       combining   you give and vindicate is that  nothing
    '  The reason

else but atomism would account for such breaches of
the law of continuity as are involved in the numerical
Ileaps made by chemical combinations.

   ' Now, this rather puzzles me. think it clear that,
granting or assuming the atoms, their existence does
not in the least account for the multiple proportion
in which they combine. Why ten rather than eleven
atoms of any element should combine with certain
others, is in no way accounted for by the mere fact
that matter does consist of atoms.
   ' The converse proposition seems to me equally true :
that, as atoms don't account for multiple proportions,
so multiple proportions are conceivable without atoms.
The idea that definiteness in quantity must involve
definiteness in the number of indivisible atoms is an
idea which does not carry conviction to my mind.
   ' Then, a doubt often occurs to me : Is the law of

multiple proportions so certainly and definitely ascer
tained as to justify the theory ?
   ' Of course, the facts on which the law of multiple
proportions is founded are facts of measurement by
weight and volume. But have we any instruments
for measuring either, which could inform us if two or
three half-atoms, or even dozens of whole atoms, less
Ior more, were to be found in any given combination ?

   ' apprehend certainly not. The atoms are far too
small to be detected in this way. Therefore, although
you conclude that, when we roughly (very roughly)
measure combined elements, we find that they jump
from weight to weight by leaps of multiple proportion,
it seems to me we never can be sure that the exactness
of our measurements is sufficient to exclude the possi

524                       SCIENCE                                      [chap. xlvt

Ibility of fractional variations in such units as you are

dealing with in atoms. Scientific heresy! dare say
you will exclaim.

   ' A vague belief in the perfection of numerical laws
in Nature may carry us over this difficulty, and we
                          if,

                                         ;

                                           it

                                                    is
                                                                      is
may conclude that         by all means of measurement
known to us, definite numbers do prevail in combina
tions, then we may be certain that Nature                                 more
perfect than our instruments, and the numerical rela
tions which we can measure are really absolutely
accurate along the whole way which we cannot measure.
     Well, this may be true but           an act of faith
I' '

                it
to believe in absolutely.'

          To Professor Tyndall {April 8th, 1887).

          am very sorry to see the intimation of your retire
ment, and especially of its cause.   dare say the faculty
                                     ;I

                                        I
                                                          is
and the opportunity of communicating knowledge viva
voce must be a great pleasure but rest                                 a great
pleasure, too, after hard work, and hope you may
long enjoy it.
     There always plenty to learn, even to the end,
and we are in the full stream of discovery and of specuI' '
       I is
lation just now. And yet, somehow, never seems to
                                          it

come to much on the problems which are fundamental.
          agree with you entirely in what you say about
Ireland.   wish we could all retire to some high plat
tfhoerm"  like Hindhead,                                                  on
          madness of the  and look  down  philosophically
                          people."
                                  '

          To Professor Tyndall {April 11th, 1887).

     Reading your lecture has reminded me of a ques
'

              I

                                                is is
                                                                a is
tion which has often occurred to me. In one of your
former lectures you speak of trying to form a distinct
physical image of physical facts.    There                             n"owdaivfefic"ultoyf
in doing this, as regards what       called                         a
sound, which, as conceive it, merely series of con

1860-93]         THE ' IMAGE ' OF SOUND                                                                            525

densations and corresponding rarefactions following
each other like  uannduildaetiaonse.asilyAs"reimgaargdesd.a"ny                                                one
sound, this is                                                                                                The  given
                                                                                                                    only
difficulty as regards sound arises in my mind when
we try to "image" a great many different sounds all
                             imatagthee"          rate and at                                                 the same
IIrunning                                               suppose                                               a distant

time.
            tocgaent'ht er"               same
                                           this.

analogy would be the case of small wavelets or ripples,
running on the surface of large waves, which are quite
common. But, then, they do not seem to go at the
same rate, or to reach any given point at the same
time. On the other hand, as regards sound, the notes
of all the different instruments in a large orchestra
reach the ear simultaneously, and also, to a fine ear,
Iso 'sepcaarnanteolty "asimtaogbee "ditshtiinsguwiisthhabalen.y distinctness ; can
Iyou ? This, however, is not the question which
wished to ask you chiefly. There is another question,
kindred, but distinct, which arises in respect to light.
Of course, the same difficulty applies to this case as
regards the multiplicity of motions which are con
          simultaneously     sianmethe"   same medium, resulting,
veyed      mind, in the                   unpicturability." But,
to my
besides this difficulty, which is the same in both cases,
there   is  qcuointceepatiosnepaorfat"e    difficulty  to me connected
with   the                                vibrations   transverse to the

direction of the ray."                     arise  thweith"   sound.                                           "    It is
   ' This difficulty does not                               natural
                                          it is                                                                    con
easily conceivable ; indeed,
ception that vibrations or undulations should travel
ianb'itlhiBteyutd,inirteotchteimonaylleomgf eitndhde,refoltahrcteieorenwibhseictahwecoeornimgipnthlaeettees"
                                                                                                               them.

                                                                                                              ruanyp"ictaunrd
It"heimagveibr"atiocnasn  which are                            The only
                          form of that    transverse.       the image of
                                          relation is
solid particles, of infinite number and smallness, shoot
ing through the medium and causing radials or diver
       vibrations in all     idsiraencti"onismargoeun" dwihtsichowcnomibnitnreus
gent   path. Now, this
sive

526                                   SCIENCE                                  [CHAP. XLVI

the old        "  Temheiss"iornay"    "thewooruyldofrleigphretsewnitth   the  "unedmuitltaetdory
theory.                                                                 the
               th(wdeihsotiulnsrltbyatn"hceeim) uangsedeut"lauctpioonnacsellivwaaobrouleuldntdoreipmtsree,s"eanpntadt,thho."ef
parrotiwcle",  it is the image suggested in the language used.
               physical image of what is called the path,"
This is

course,                                                                        particle of
                                                                                  through
It is a
and it         is quite easily        conceivable  th"aptatah
                however fine,         pursuing a
matter,
any medium with enormous velocity should, would,
                                      v"ibpriacttuiorninsg.
Iand must set up transverse                                             "  is
   ' Of course, our power of
                                                                               dependent
on the resources of sight, directly or indirectly.
d"otnh'itngkn"owor  that          "amnyoteioxnam"ppleassisingvistihbrloeugtoh  us of any
                    any                                                        a medium
                                      vibrations except  transverse to its
oawnd'nIfs"etpthtaientrghe."uisp  no  such phenomenon    visible, it would
                                  no
Iaccount for the unpicturability of the alleged action

of light, which assume to be fully proved.'

  A note of January 29th, 1891, to Professor Tyndall

contains the following remark :

  I I' wish Huxley would not write so offensively.

Ican understand the agnostic frame of mind perfectly,

but can't understand making it so aggressive. He
writes as if every believer in Christianity were no

better than the blackbeetle beneath his feet.'

   About the year 1864 the Duke made the acquaint
ance of Professor Max Muller, whose attention had
been attracted by an article on ' The Supernatural,'

written by the Duke in the Edinburgh Review. A corre

spondence followed, which was continued throughout
the period of a whole generation --from 1864 to 1898.

   In a letter to the Professor, July 8th, 1864, the Duke

criticised the naturalistic theory.

1860-93]      PHILOSOPHY OF LANGUAGE                         527

    I' Generally, if not always,        have observed that

metaphysical    writers speak of  thwehastuptheerna"tunraatluraasl  a"
              they knew exactly
thing, as if
includes, and could, therefore, determine or define
what lies beyond it. In this sense, the supernatural
is not only unbelievable : it is inconceivable.'

    To Professor Max M tiller {November l1th, 1864).
                                                        " law "
--  ' What   is the ultimate derivation of the  word
            My attention has been drawn         lately   to the
    lex ?
                                        in which this word
                       of the senses     wish to get at the
                        in science.
Ie"xltarewm"e
           vagueness
          is used now

root idea.'

   Among many letters on technical points in philology,
there are others of more general interest, from which

the following extracts are taken :

       To Professor Max M tiller {January 25th, 1875).

    ' We are all deeply grieved by Kingsley's death. It
is a great public misfortune, and an irreparable loss
Ito all who  knew him personally.
   ' have    been reading over again,   with    great   interest,
your lecture on Mr. Darwin's philosophy of language,*
in consequence of having been engaged myself in
Iwriting on a kindred subject, and find a great deal
Iwhich had not noticed before, so much does the mind
Ibring with it in all reading.    have also been looking
at your lectures on the science of religion, with refer

Ience also to the same subject, and am tempted to
Iput a question to you which cannot clearly answer
for    myself after reading the latter  lectures.
       You seem in some passages         to imply      that  the
    '

earliest historical religion has been monotheistic, and

   * Contemporary Review, November, 1874, p. 894 ; January,
1875, p. 305.

528                         SCIENCE                         [chap. xlvi

that polytheism has been a degradation of it ; but in
other passages you seem, on the other hand, to admit
the theory of development, to the effect that mono
theism has been a stage, though a very early stage, of

religious  growth.                      the idea of any primeval
           reject altogether
   ' You

revelation.
   ' Now, there can be no question that, as far as history
goes back, including the constructive history founded

Ion the science of language, monotheism is the earliest

belief we know of. do not know what is the earliest
date you would assign to any sacred writing, or whether
any Vedic hymn is quite certainly much older than
the Book of Job ; but when you say that three thousand
ysheiaprpsedbeafor"e HAegaavmenelmy nFoantheorur"  Aryan forefathers  wor
                                                   {Dyaus-pita), you  must

refer to a time long antecedent to any existing writing
(unless to some Egyptian hieroglyphic), and that wor
ship was surely monotheistic in the highest and purest

form.            you may                say,  as   Darwin   says :    " The
   ' Of course,
very earliest historic man is a modern creature as com
pared with   tthheeorrye.allyIteaisrliensott  progenitor of the race."
But this is                                   yet an ascertained fact,
and so far as the direct evidence brought forward in
your lectures is concerned, monotheism is the earliest
                            mankind.
Ikno' wWnhawtorshiwp aonft   to know    is         whether  this is your

opinion or not. Do you know of any religious appel
lation earlier than that of the Deus Pater or
Dyaus-pita of our earliest Aryan ancestors ?'

To Professor Max Midler {February 2nd, 1875).
I' cannot see that any science has as yet discovered
      pirnoothf ethshaatpereolifgiaon"  began, with    some semi-brutal
any                                     suspicion of  something beyond
man,
what he saw." This seems to me as purely theoretical
(derived from a priori ideas) in respect to the origin

1860-93]          HUMAN ORIGIN                                                        529

of religions, as Darwin's theory is as to the origin of
Ithe human body.

   ' In fact, am quite unable to understand why you
oppose Darwinism so much as applied to language,
when your   vieIfwmaasntowaresligbioornn  seems to
Darwinian.                                of brutes  me   essentially
                                                           insensible
                                                      by
gradations, it is quite natural to suppose that he can
have had no primitive intuition of the existence of his
Maker. But if he was in any sense a special creation,

Ior if he was born "with a leap" from some lower

form, cannot see why he may not have had such
an     intuition, which is  a primitive   revelation.
                             those who    cannot swallow                              the
    '  It is curious that

Darwinian theory as applied to man's body have all
different and separate difficulties connected with each
man's special study, and so in like manner, your special
study being language, you dwell on although to me
                             ?

                                         it,

                                                              if
this but the symbol of other differences. But
I'man's religion has grown up from the lowest beginnings,
     iswhy not also everything else Why not his power of
forming concepts, and his associated power of ex
pressing them by sounds which become roots "?
       confess am wholly puzzled to know what your
view of human origin is. There are but three conis I
ceivable modes of origin (1) That of special creation,
as Genesis at least supposed to teach (2) birth, but
at a leap, Nature making saltus in this case and
                            :

                               a

                                                                    ;
                                                                                   ;

(3) development through births on the Darwinian
theory.
       The last the only one which stands in natural
'             is
       ;a
connection with the theory that man's religion has
been growth from the lowest and obscurest begin
nings but you seem to hold this theory as regards
religion, and to deny as regards language.                cannot
                  it
see any likelihood in this.
                         is I
                                          I
I'     am, confess, not able to dismiss as completely
           I

as you do all idea of the substantial truth of the Mosaic
representation of creation.               am quite ready to
believe that the language highly metaphorical,"
vol. ii.
                                                          34

530                               SCIENCE                  [CHAP. XLVI

Ior " accommodative," or " poetical," or whatever

other word you like to apply. But mean that the
idea of man being created, or made, or born, at first
with a childlike knowledge and intuition of the God
head as his Maker and Father in heaven is, in my
opinion, a natural and probable correlative of his
special creation in any shape or form ; and that those
who deny this primeval intuition give up their belief
Iin the only thing which makes it difficult to assent
at once to Darwinism pur et simple.                could never
c"alraengtuoagfeig,"ht oarga"insctontcheaptts,c"oncolrusiaonnythfoinrgtheelses,akief  of

                                                                                      it
be admitted as                    most fundamental         of                         all
concepts --that   regards the     Being.'
                 of a Supreme

     To Professor Max Muller {February 18th, 1880).

I ' The only parts of your Hibbert Lectures in which

  disagree with you are those parts in which you have
condescended too far to the materialists, and those
parts in which you tacitly assume that the idea of
Ipersonality in superhuman agencies                isthenec"esinsafirniliyte
growth   o"uitnvoisf ibvlaeg."ue  conceptions  of                                     "a
and the
' hold, on the contrary, that the idea of personality
is the most natural, and therefore the earliest, of all ;
and that, consequently, the idea of a God may well
have been strictly primeval.
   ' The truth is, that what you               call the "  infinite "

is meant to include an infinite                Being. It   is better
to say so at once. Infinite space, infinite time, in
finite numbers of any given unit, will never beget the
idea of a God.
   ' Our own personality is the nearest, homeliest of

all conceptions, and the transfer of it to other agencies
than our own     is probably strictly primeval.
   ' Of course,  if you assume that man was evolved        from

a beast, then a transition stage must be assumed.
But of that stage we can form no conception.

1860-93]        LANGUAGE AND THOUGHT                                   531

' We must begin with man developed, as regards his
faculties, to the rank of man ; and if we begin there,
it is safe to assume that the idea of a God would be
                     earliest intuitions.
one     of the very  no difficulty by calling          this idea       " the
    '  You escape

infinite." On the contrary, you aggravate every
Idvoifl'fviOceudfltcyino,uar"snesdi,mdpoleango"rteesoennewsiabthtitiocnyoonaucsilaiiatbtoeeuxtitshteas llmintahtmaertainail.sistiTsn.o
show that was the work of Kant. But the effect of
Ithat work is to show that we have intuitions of many

categories, and see no use in even seeming to give
   the ground he won.
Iup'  have been writing  on the subject,                         and am very

anxious to know the earliest evidences on the nature
of sacrifice. The food-offering is probably the earliest
notion, all flowing from personality as founded on our
ow'nBeuxtp, eroifenccoeurosfe,it.the earliest Vedic
                                                       literature may
Ibe very far from primeval, although                   am inclined to
think the symptoms are those of a true childhood.'

       From Professor Max Muller {April 14th, 1888).
  I' On
                                                       should    like  to write
to you                                                 present.        requires
          pmhoirloesofuplhlyicathl aqnueIstcioanns at              It
                                                       of language and
                see the inseparableness                 life to perceive
                 has taken me a whole
Ian efforttIot

thought.
it. People imagine that hold that language and
thought are identical. There is no sense in that.
INo two things can    be identical. But                          they  can
                      can exist without                           the  other  b--e
inseparable, neither
that is what mean. We imagine that we can think
without words because we can distinguish between
the sound and the meaning. So we can between an
orange and its skin, but in rerum natura there is no
skin without an orange, nor an orange without a skin.

IYou were one of the few men in England who thought
Iwould see what meant. But it requires an effort,
                                                                 34^2

532                             SCIENCE                                   [chap. xlyi

and it is only a historical study of language in all its
phases that has at last led me to the conviction that
the Greeks were right, and that what really makes
                                                  us from the animal is the
luosgoms--eni.ea.n, dthdeisgtiantghueirsihnegs,  or, as Hobbes said, addition

and subtraction.
'                                                feel perfectly certain that

 I I. . .
           am in no hurry, but
Iwhat have put before the world is true, and will be
Iacc' eptkendoiwn  due time.
                                                 Hartmann's  philosophy,            but
                   little about
I believe he has considerable influence in Germany,
though not among the professors.'

     To Professor Max Mutter (November 29th, 1888).
I'   " hae ye
                       noo, Harry !"             into  some               identity  of
'    Can you           translate that

tho' uItghtis ? the phrase said to have been constantly
used by a dull friend of Harry Erskine, a great wit,
when he (the dull friend)                        at last took in the      drift of
one of Harry's jokes, and                                                 half an
                                                 exclaimed, perhaps
Ihour after, Oo, hae ye noo, Harry I
I' So am your dull friend, and your last letter has
Imade me exclaim as above, because it supplied to me

one link towards an understanding which had not
Iseen before.
    '  could not make           out why you            oaftta"chidedentsiotym."uchI
        in philosophy           to the tenet                              it would be
value                                            rauisseedtoonwthhiicsh"  foundation-

did not    feel sure as         to  the
put -- as  to the edifice       to  be
stone." But now your letter has explained it, because
you go on to ask whether it is not time to be more
careful as to definitions of language ; and you ask
w" hNeathtuerre,"the"   vague   uSseelecotfionc,e" rta"inHowmoerdRs,ulesu,"chetca.,s
                       Natural
has not done mischief enough in science, politics, and

Iphi'lo"soHpehayr., hear !" exclaim in Parliamentary emotion.

1860-93]    LANGUAGE AND THOUGHT                                  533

I entirely agree in the fallacies promoted by, and often
consisting in, the lax and confused use of words ; and
if your theory helps you to expose this source of all
Ihuman error, am          of
  I' Only, please let    say
                   glad       it.    so  far               as  understand
                   me         that,
it, your theory would not help me one bit in this great
and most needful work. On the contrary, the fallacies
hid under language seem to me to point, not to the
isisdeepna"traiNtbyailtiuotyrf.atlhouSWeghlheytctaiisonnd" "lHanogmauneaogtRheeu, rlebuf"taltaloafcatyhllea?icryeBs?esceWanuthisaeyl
thought is infinitely more subtle than speech ; because
language is infinitely too blunt for the purposes of
rea' lIlyf  accurate thought.
            you mean no more   than  that                  words  exercise

Ia great power over thought, by means of their
ambiguities, then  agree cordially ; and not only
agree generally, but agree specifically in the pro
digious importance of verbal analysis as one of the
most powerful instruments in the detection of errors
Iand               truth.
    '               have
 the discovery of              been  resolving                 in my mind
So much so that
for some time on an article, to be called "The Weapon

of Analysis," on this very subject. It is one which
has long struck me as of immense importance, and
Iin all my

long used
            tphuisrsu"itws eainpopnol"iticwsithangdreiant  science have
Imy own mind, if not to others.                            satisfaction to

' But, again,      venture to say that this weapon,
and the need of using it, does not imply any identity,
but, on the contrary, a constant separability between
thought and language, and a constant difficulty in
the way of making them really or accurately co
incident.'

     To Professor Max Mutter (December 19th, 1888).

  I' write one line to say that the impression left on

my mind by the reports [of your lectures] is one which

534                              SCIENCE                                 [chap. xlvi

I do not believe you intend to produce --namely, that
you regard religion as a product of the human mind,
having,; no definite relation with any external or
obj'e"ctGiveeolofagcyts." is the logos of facts in the history of

the globe, and the logos consists in reducing these facts
int'oInanliiknetelmligainbnleer  order, in so   far as       it can be   done.
                                   theology    is the        logos of    religious
facts and spiritual existences, and we can only talk
of the origin of theology in the same sense in which
we talk of the first efforts of men to ascertain and
            facts in any science.
correlate   at least, is my philosophy                       ;  but  if  we  are  to
   ' Such,

consider religion as a mere product of the human mind
or imagination in any other sense, then, in my opinion,

no such thing as religion exists as a logos.
   ' My impression of your teaching may be quite

wrong ; but a few words would set it right, if the
reports are at all correct.'

     To Professor Max Muller {January 21th, 1889).

' Having now delivered my soul on the point on
I Iwhich differ from you, am about to deliver my
Iother soul upon the more substantial issues, as think,
I Ion which agree with you.                            have been asked to
deliver an address to the students of the University
of Edinburgh at the opening of a union which they
        formed among                                    for     mutual improve
have     and recreation          --thelemctsuerlevses  and      addresses among
ment

Iother  things.  to  address     them          on      " The    Love     of  Truth,
     '  intend
Iand on some methods of attaining it."

   ' The method on which mean to dwell is the
analysis of words and phrases, showing how the mere
analysis of what certain phrases mean, the mere noting
of the ideas expressed therein, is often enough to
overthrow no end of fallacies and to establish important
truths.

1860-93]                       ROOTS OP WORDS                           535

    I' Now, may ask you a question on what you call
I"roots"? You say that all roots express acts and

not things, by which understand you to mean that
all the oldest words you can trace are words which
signify some self-conscious acting of the individual
Iperson, and not mere external                                   Taking the
                                                ionbjehcists."  Dictionary,"
word wealth, see that Skeat,                                    and will, the
says  that       btehiengro"otthiast  the same      as well     have," or (in
root  idea                            which we
                                                    will to
other words) that which we desire to possess. Well
is, then,        tnthohewe reacscoutmltoefsowf thilhalienvgin"gosruwfhfwixaisth"wineogrwini"lltoaofrftihwxe,i"sh".wthhiincgh

   ' But

converts
wished for." In the case of this word the change is
                        two letters, th,    as in                   English
wefoferdcste--d  by      strong, strength,    etc.  many     other  affirmed
                                                     Can
                 e.g.,                                       it be
in such cases that there ever was a time when there
was no word for the external object wished for,
oatahfldtfash'mthoOioutrtotg,hithnesisgtatahbhtnehsedrtaertiadscweittmhaaespcoleaof"rnwacroeodvopreedttrrbi"vfoaoaflnrtei"to"vhneterhsroiona?ectgxts"isIottwcfeodiwssnehisseweishmdititesnhngfootturo? tw"miittihess
Inow, and must                              boefen",   inseparable from
                                                      willing to get the
the concept and
                             always have
                             consciousness
things wished for." But this is not, think, incon
             with            idea that the primary              element or
              is in          conscious act of willing.             take this
Is"isrtoeontt"          the
                        the
Iword as an illustration, as it expresses primeval
desires, actions, and, probably, words.                         only want
                               of what you mean.
to  'bTehsautretheoxuagchtlty  and language are       identical,

                                                                    in  the

sense of words being the vesture, the embodiment,
Ithe record,
Imore ; and
                 and the       history of thought,              se"ewmeaopreonanodf
                    want       to point out how the
analysis," applied to words and phrases, is a weapon
as powerful in the discovery of intellectual truth as
chemical analysis is in revealing the elementary con
stitution of matter.'

536                    SCIENCE                                  [chap. xlyi

         To Professor Max Midler {March 3rd, 1889).

' My conclusion is that we differ too little to make
it worth while to carry on the controversy. You say
Ithat a true concept cannot be clear and definite until
it has been first named.  say, on the contrary, that
such a concept cannot be named until after it has
been first mentally conceived. This seems a direct
antithesis ; and yet the practical conclusion we aim
at is the same : that phrases are becoming increasingly
deceptive, and that the analysis of words would clear
I Iup the thoughts of all of us immensely.
                                                      think this
   ' You and both agreed in this ; and
practical conclusion looks more in the direction of,
stands in closer relation to, my abstract proposition
tha' nIftowoyrodusrsa. re such pitfalls, if they are so deceptive,
if they need to be analyzed and purified, and kept up
to the mark of accurate thought, how can it be main
tained that they are necessarily identical with thought ?

How can it be denied that, so far from being identical,
they are very apt to become separate, even antago
nistic, and full  of deceptive power ?
    ' Meanwhile,  my address to the                   students  of the
Icollege in Edinburgh was enthusiastically received by

them, though saw it puzzled them. But it was not
reported at all, or only in the barest abstract ; so the
chairman, Professor Campbell Fraser, of the Chair of
ILogic and Metaphysics, has asked me to reproduce

and publish it ; and as spoke it and did not write
Iit, this odious work of writing is now occupying me
in all my spare time.     shall, of course, send you a
          when it is published.
Icop' y  "fiCnodmsmoomneplavceery Binoteorkes"tingon  dicta by Berkeley in
                                                       language. In one
his
place he says that language is so pestilent a source of
fallacy that if men could dispense with language
altogether they would never mistake ! In another
place he speaks of language as indispensable for

1860-93]               OBIGIN OF RELIGION                                       537

thought. It would be easy to quote him on either
side of our logomachy. But the drift of his analysis
always is to show how deceptive words are, and he
w" arsealsittayr.t"ed   on his course of thought by the word
                       What does it mean ? What constitutes
a real thing ? My own result is that language is the
coinage of thought, stamped with its image and
superscription," coined      asauthteom"amticeadliluym,
and absolutely needed                                    unconsciously,
But that it comes second, and not first.'                of exchange."

        To Professor Max Midler {April lUh, 1892).

                                                         ' Inveraray.

  I' have just completed a rather careful reading of

your Glasgow lectures, and am glad to recognise in
them what seems to me a very substantial contribu
tIionnotteo  the great subject of natural theology. What
             as of primary importance is, first, that your
view is definitely and distinctly that religion is not an

invention, but a discovery ; that it is not the develop
ment of an imagination, but the development of a
Irecognition, so that the subject-matter of religion is

fact. Secondly, note your language about a personal
God as essential, as much so as a personal soul ;
thirdly, that abstractions must be the abstracts of
Ifacts  ; and, lastly, that philosophies are not religions.
    '   note these as leading thoughts of immense im

por'tBanucte.now, since you challenge and write criticisms
Ieither as to historical faith or as to logical conclusions,
   wish    to  wsahyatfraynokulycathllat",  pinhymsiycaol pminiiroanc,leyso"ur   treat
ment      of                                                                    is not

log'icIfal.there be a Supreme Being, we cannot logically
confine      His methods     oftheope"rastuiopnernsaotuaras l  t"o--eaxcwluodred
what is      usually called
Iwhich dislike, and which you rarely use, but which
Iyou do use a little.        entirely dissent from your

538                      SCIENCE                               [CHAP. XLVI

doctrine that it is no longer now a question of evidence,
obfu't MLtahywaot w"mnisrcathiclallepsteexarprreoesnpsretohsveedsmuypimerponowastnsuibraivlliiteieiwns.;thean"d
                                                                                                                 Reign
                                                                                                                   even
Huxley admits that there is no a priori disproof

possible.
reje' cOtifoncouorfsea,llimthmee"nsseupceornnsaetquureanlce"s   follow from your

                                                               elements in Chris
tianity. In my opinion this does reduce it from a

religion to a mere philosophy.  this  subject                  now -- it is

  I' Of course, can't go into
Ian immense one ; but could not write on the subject
at all without expressing my entire dissent from all
this on logical grounds.'

     To Professor Max Mttller {April 2Uh, 1893).

I' have completed my first reading of your last
book, and have been extremely interested, thinking
that it adds some valuable reconstructive elements to
Inatural religion. There are many parts of the book

with which find myself in special agreement, such as
Ithe passages about types in organic structure, on

which subject had written some passages only last
Iweek which are almost a transcript of your own.
   ' The main point on which do not find myself in
agreement is neither any fact to be disputed nor
any deduction to be rejected. You challenge replies
on either ground. But my feeling of dissent, or at
least of great doubt, has reference to an ill-defined,
but felt, atmosphere of an assumption or preconcep
tion which pervades many passages.
' You dissociate abstract conceptions from all ob
Ijective facts more than can understand, and more
Ithan can admit to be      truly philosophic.
                                                               idea of
   ' Thus, consider the     general and abstract
Christ being the Incarnate Word. You dwell on this
at great length as of the essence of Christianity, which,
no doubt, it is. Yet your language leaves it doubtful

1860-93]                   SCIENCE OF RELIGION                                       539

whether on this account you think it at all needful to
              aGsalhiliasetaonriclaelglyendtrsue"  any   one fact of  His recorded
laifcec.ept"                                       is a  phrase you   use, without

specifying which or what you mean ; and your language
gives the impression that, in your mind, you can divorce
altogether the satisfaction you feel in the abstract idea,
Ifrom belief in, say, the fact of the Resurrection.

   ' Now, this is a frame of mind cannot even under
stand. Abstract ideas are poor stuff unless they are
abstracted    from real objective                        f"acmtsy. thoInlogliikcael  mfoarnmnser",
constantly    you use the words
for all attempts to personify, or to embody, abstract
conceptions. Of course, many such personifications
are pure myth ; but not all are myth, and my philo
sophy teaches              me that all abstract               aidreeaosnlyha"vemystohmoe
                           objective facts. They
leomgbicoadlim" enwtheinn                                     are fanciful and
                             those embodiments
unreal. But you seem to treat all kinds and forms
Iof embodiment as equally mythology.

   ' am pleased and amused by one passage, in which
your words imply that thought comes before words,
and seeks in a vocable its own expression. This

Iseems to me the order of Nature ; and know as a
Ifact that frequently can recall an idea, and even

handle it in reasoning, while, nevertheless, its name
has     vanished from my memory.
        On the great leading idea of                     the  book-- the             mischief
     '

of supposing that Christianity is to be defended by
               that all its ideas are novelties                       in the world,
Ipretending   use you make of St. Paul in this                        connection --

and in the                 with
heartily       agree              you.
' Your                      the  mystics amuses and interests me.
              love of      with   the love of abstract conceptions
It is correlated
which is common to all students of philosophy, but
it has inspired some of the most striking passages of
your book.'

   Another subject which the Duke discussed with
Professor Max Miiller was the question of the antiquity

540                     SCIENCE                       [CHAP. XL VI

of man, considered in the light of the evidence gathered
from the history of language.

To Professor Max Midler {February 20^, 1868).

   ' You say that it is certain that there was a time

when the ancestors of the Greeks, Latins, Germans,
Indians, etc., dwelt under a common roof, because
they have all the same words to express the primary
relationships of life and the most ancient of the

domestic animals.
   ' But
time to   the question  gaureisssesw, hHeanvethiwse"  any measure   o"f
          enable us to                                 common roof

was the home of the ancestors of all those races ?
Have we any link connecting time-relative with time-
absolute ?

   ' One step towards this would be to estimate how
far back, in years, the diverse dialects of the Indo-
Germanic language can be traced in well-marked
separation from each other. The evidence of monu
ments, and of something like history, seems to go back
as far as the twenty-eighth century B.C., on the most
moderate computations of Egyptologists. But beyond
this, all trace of time, measurable by years, seems to
be lost. What is the farthest-back date to which you
thi'nTkheweractaen  reach by the evidence  of
                    of growth of dialects  in         language ?    of
                                                      early stages
the world, when there were few arresting causes, must
be as much matter for conjecture as the rate of growth
Iin geological formations. But it may be possible to

fix a minimum, if we know such a date as have
referred to.'

   Professor Max Miiller replied that ' every attempt
at translating the periods of natural growth or struc
ture into the language of definite solar chronology
has proved a failure ' ; and the Duke, continuing the

subject, wrote on February 25th, 1868 :

1860-93]        ORIGIN OF LANGUAGE                         541

' About 1200 B.C. we have the Sanskrit language, in
the Veda, perfectly formed and reduced to writing.
We also have evidence that the Greek language was
already in a similar condition about the same period.
Now, both these languages bear traces of having
come from a common stock, different from either,
and the oldest forms of Greek and Sanskrit show an

increasing approximation.
   ' But the very fact of a language becoming a written
one indicates a stage at which an arrest would be put

upon the causes of change. Therefore, it is impossible
to measure the    rate          of changes before a
became written  by the          rate of change after        language

                                                           it became
written. You raise a question of immense interest
when you say that the history of language is only the
history of decay. Do you mean to say that language
is higher and more perfect as we go back in time ?

And, if so, in what sense was it higher ? Or do you
only mean that, though language becomes always
more perfect in its adaptation to thought, its materials
a"reDetchaey d"etrinitusthiosf         and ruder forms of speech ?
                                older  does not mean degeneracy,
                                sense

but only crumbling. The oldest forms may be the
rudest,   and the youngest may be the                      m"osdtecpaeyrf"ecot,f
although    these last are made out of the

Ithe first.  always feel about time, measured geo
   ' What
logically, is, that if the causes of change were more
rapid in pre-Adamite time than now, all measure of
I'

                                                      if,
time-absolute is lost. So, likewise,                       before language
was reduced to writing, the causes of change were
much more rapid in their operation, no man can say
how great those changes may have been when men
were nomads, diverging rapidly from each other in
place and habits. No man can say what changes
and developments of speech may have arisen in
3,000 years, under such conditions of the race.

       hope you will give a lecture on this great subject
of time-relative in its relations with time-absolute.'

542  SCIENCE  [chap. xlvi

   In all his writings on scientific subjects, and in any

part he took in controversies regarding disputed points,
the Duke's chief aim invariably was to maintain that

the most fearless investigation of every new discovery,
brought to light in the progress of knowledge, should
be welcomed. He held that no proved truth could
touch the belief in the Divine Source of all truth,
but that each one formed a new link in a chain reaching
back to the great First Cause, without the recognition
of Whose guiding Hand no theory could be constructed

to explain the earliest dawn of life. In the early and

mid-Victorian days, a wave of infidelity appeared to
follow in the wake of scientific discovery. The new
light thrown upon the forces in Nature had revealed
a new earth, and with the old earth there had passed
away, for many, the old heaven. To those who found
that doubt was ' as lead upon the feet of their most
anxious will '* the firm stand made for the faith by a
man like the Duke, who had kept abreast of all in
tellectual progress, and in whose great abilities and
powers of judgment men placed confidence, formed a
rallying-point when they had lost the old landmarks,
and were in danger of missing the path in the darkness
of infidelity. Many letters addressed to him testify

to the help he had afforded to others, by his counsel
and by his writings. A number are from clergymen
 of the Church of England, who were, by their office,
 specially called upon to deal with the spiritual diffi
 culties of the age, and who gladly availed themselves
 of the weapons provided by his reasoned arguments
 to resist attack. The ex-president of a secular society,

 who had been led to repudiate atheistical doctrines,

 wrote to the Duke stating that his long experience in

                                       * George Eliot.

1860-93]          RELIGION AND DOGMA                                       543

connection with this society had shown him how great

an influence for good the Duke exercised over the work

ing population, amongst whom a low-class infidelity

had been spreading.                                                        on

   A letter from the Duke to Lord Bramwell
July 31st, 1863, refers to a theological discussion :

' You are a judge, and you are accustomed when
on the bench to throw your mind into the judicial
Iattitude, both as to
                       facts and            principles.       yourself     in
   ' hope you will     endeavour             to deal with
the same way when you are brought face to face with
the               of what you call
       problems   not quote to me           theology.         from Sir W.
    '                                        a passage
       You need
Maxwell, in which he refers (probably) to the doings
of the Inquisition in Spain or in the Low Countries.
   ' There is     ianntooldteerrsear uwthoorrdst--haLnucKreetiriu, sw:ho"  has put
this matter                                                                Tantum

rmeilni'gdTio,hetpocootbunecitluthssiiuosand: e"frreoRmemliagthliooirsnusmgro.e"ratreflaigcitousseemdos,gminasyoaurer
the source of all evil."
  ' If you looked into the question
                                                      jIutdiwcioaullyld  your con
clusion would be very different.                                         probably
       s"omMeenth'singcolnikdeuctthisha: s
be                                          in all    agIets  been determined
    '                                       beliefs.          has been bad in

fundamentally by their
proportion as these beliefs have been false ; it has been
goo' dCoinnsepqruoepnotrltyi,onthaes  these beliefs have      been true."
ment of Keir are                      line of Lucretius       and the senti
the other way :
                       "eTqaunatlluymtrureeliwgihoen            made       to face
                                                              potuit       suadere
bonorum."

   ' Just as false religion and false dogma have been
the source of tremendous evils, so have true religion
and true dogma been the source of all that is best and
              in  human conduct and in human                  institutions.
hig'hTehstis  is  as much a fact as the converse              proposition.

544                     SCIENCE               [chap. xlvi

  ' It is the idlest of all occupations to rail against

beliefs. They will exist, and they will exert their
power. Even the purely negative belief that there is
no true religion, and no knowledge respecting it, is a

Ibelief which will have its own tremendous power.

   ' submit, therefore, that the duty of all men is, not
to despise questions of belief, but to study them, and,
as far as may be, to solve them.

   ' As a matter of fact, the fundamental institutions

Iof our law are, in all their moral aspects, more or less

directly moulded on Christian belief, and have never
yet seen any other foundation even suggested which
has the same strength or the same truth.'

   The following words, written by the Duke, allude
to the recognition he received of the help afforded to
others by his literary work :

    ' have had letters from the most distant  parts of
     world--from the backwoods of America     and the
Ithe
Ibush of Australia, from men whom have never seen,
nor can see, in this world, thanking me for having
lifted from off their spirits that deadly nightmare of
a rigid, fateful, and mechanical necessity seated on
the throne of Nature.'

                 CHAPTER XLVII

                     1866-1900

LITERARY   WORK --   --JUBPOILEETERY----QCUHEAERNACVTIECRTIOSTRIICAS--
  NATURAL
            HISTORY

The best-known of the Duke of Argyll's writings are,
perhaps, the three volumes entitled ' The Reign of
Law,' ' The Unity of Nature,' and ' The Philosophy of
Belief,' the publication of which extended over a period
of thirty years, the first having been published in 1866,
and the last in 1896. Of this series, the author wrote

in the preface to the last volume :

' Although each of these works may stand indepen
dently by itself, they are yet very closely connected.
They represent,  alilnsuthbejecmtsa--in,naomneely,linteheopf htihloosuogphhty  on
the greatest of                      p"hiTlohseopRheyigonf                     of

religion  in its relations with the                         science.
   ' The  first of these treatises,
                                                            of Law,"
deals with the question how far the idea is rational
that physical laws are the supreme agencies in Nature,
or whether, on the contrary, mind and will are seated
on that universal throne.
   ' The second of the series,  " The Unity  of Nature,"
starting from a fresh point of view, deals mainly with
the problem how far our human faculties are com
petent, on this matter, to give us any knowledge
whatever, or whether they must leave us in conscious,
yet helpless, and hopeless, ignorance on the whole of
it, and on all that it involves.
                                        " The Philosophy
   ' The third and last of the series,
of Belief," applies the reasonings and conclusions
vol. n. 545 35

546               LITERARY WORK                       [chap. XLVII

which have been thus reached to an examination of
the relation in which the great conception of natural
law, when properly understood, stands to religion in
general, and to Christian theology in particular.'

   The system of thought which the Duke developed
in these volumes extends over a very large area. The
phenomena of the inorganic world, the structures and
functions of organic life, human character and volition,
the growth of civilization, history, and literature, social
and political institutions --all come within the field of
his vision, and serve to illustrate the main argument
in countless ways, the fundamental idea being simply
that of St. Paul's introduction to the Epistle to the
Romans : ' The invisible things of Him from the

creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood
by the things that are made, even His Eternal Power

and Godhead.'

   The argument in ' The Reign of Law ' is so close and
consecutive that it is difficult to quote from the book
without breaking the connection of thought ; but a

passage may be given indicative of the line of reason
ing adopted by the author :

   ' The Reign of Law. Is this, then, the reign under
which we live ? Yes, in a sense it is. There is no
denying it. The whole world around us, and the whole
world within   tous,ita--rethrousleedspbiyritslaww. hicOhuryevteryseesmpiritsso
are subject    sfuebeltleth, esoresfrterea.ininHgowwalolsft--enboiunndthse   dark
                                                                            within
spiritual, so
ness do they
which they move, conditions out of which they can
not think ! The   mpeernc.eptIiotngroofwsthiws itihs  growing in the
consciousness of                                      the growth of
knowledge ; it is the delight, the reward, the goal of
science. From science it passes into every domain of
thought, and invades, amongst others, the theology

1866-1900]  THE 'PHILOSOPHY OF BELIEF '                                                              547

of the Church. And so we see the men of theology
"Ifcoming out to parley with the men of science, a white
flag in their hands, and saying :                     you will let us
alone, we will do the same by you. Keep to your
owwhnichproyvoiuncper;ocdloaimnotweenteardmouitrs--.    The Reign of Law
                                                      outside these walls,
but not within them. Let there be peace between us."
But this will never do. There can be no such treaty
dividing the domain of Truth. Every one truth is
connected with every other truth in this great universe
suoufnbdetGlreogtdryo. uanndTdheafoprpcoanarenneltocntigodniswtaanmyca--ey--burbtuenanoliwnnagey, s  of infinite
                                                                                                     as it were,

                                                                                                        asserting
itself at last, somewhere, and at some time. No bar
gaining, no fencing off the ground, no form of process,
will avail to bar this right of way. Blessed right, en
forced by blessed power ! Every truth, which is truth
indeed, is charged with its own consequences, its own
analogies, its own suggestions. These will not be kept
outside any artificial boundary ; they will range over
the whole field of thought ; nor is there any corner of
it from which they can be warned away.'

   In the ' Philosophy of Belief,' which deals especially

with law in theology, the following words occur, which
harmonize with the thought expressed in the above

passage :

' The correspondence between the intelligence of man
and the structure of the universe  coItuldmnuostt
mechanical explanations ended.                                                                       stop where
                                                                                                     extend to
higher things. The wings of thought must be as much
an adjusted mechanism as the wings of flight. This
was an idea which justified and encouraged some kinds

of doubt, whilst it acted as a powerful solvent upon
others. On the one hand, it encouraged and justified
a reasonable scepticism on every dogma of the schools
which is really obnoxious to the instructed reason or
to the enlightened conscience ; on the other hand, it
                                                      35--2

548            LITERARY WORK                                                                                [chap. xlvu

put an end to that bottomless distrust of all thought,
and of all reasoning upon spiritual things, which is,
as it were, a suicide of the soul.'

   The summing up of this volume, the last philo
sophical work given by the Duke to the world, is added
here, because it expresses so entirely his own assured
belief, which could not in any other words be so well

defined as in his own :

    ' Perhaps the greatest testimony of all to the supreme
rank of Christian belief as a system of philosophy is in
its evidently unexhausted reserve of power. The
great things it has accomplished in the reform and
elevation of human life and character are little, indeed,
compared with the results which it would obviously
accomplish if it were really understood, and if its
dominion were thoroughly established. Christianity
is infinitely greater than all Christians, and than all
the Churches. Corruptions entered almost at the
beginning. Persecuting doctrines and practices have
defamed its history, and the most hideous cruelties
have been esteemed duties enacted by its commands.
Yet every abuse of this kind is now seen to have been
condemned by some one or more of its fundamental
principles. And so it will be with every other abuse
wp"rhoOipchhfoeotmslsahyaanvcdeomsseplootwkoenboef"*dh--eetaetrhctetesdteoainrbeettlhiheeevecwoouarrdlslse   of time.
                                                                                                            that the
                                                                                                            recorded
by the Apostles as addressed to two of the disciples
by their risen Master. They are words which may
well have to be repeated often to other disciples from
age to age until that unexhausted teaching of His has
come, slowly and gradually, to be better comprehended.
Of  no other   teaching, of no other philosophy, can this
               and it alone, among the many which have
be  said. It,

passed across the stage of human history, seems large
enough to be capable of containing all the yet unknown

               * Luke xxivi 25.

1866-1900]  THE DUKE'S MARRIAGE                                      549

ctiIsrtlaetsahssheeuasrtseewpssiirtoihtefvotewhfrieysddemovfmooosrttmioahnniddateonokduntsoruwstshlheiand--dsgoet"wo. wthrouIaftttsshouwenivnhterorucleothnlo.dsvpuecirttIih.tt
egtahvrneeedantmleoasavstkeetohtfhoefyaaliltal.irteeh.e"Iki*trnorsweeItwtns.al"ordvbfese,sfoIrkttehneotawitkhsleeodspdgeiess,pcoeipfcaliena"sdl,knintaoostlwoevtinheogesf
the unsatisfied, and apparently unsatisfiable, desires
of men as a significant                 iftac"t    in  their mental con
stitution. Lucretius calls                       the   thankless nature of
t"heNecmintda,m" enandexapdledms utrhe  beautifully plaintive line :
                                        vitai fructibus unquam."
With irresistible reason Christian philosophy correlates
that fact with the inexhaustibility of the Creator's
works, and regards this unappeasable hunger of the
human soul as the natural result of the correspondingly
immense capabilities of a creature made in his image,
and always, in proportion to the awakening of its
faculties, finding intense delight in the appreciation
and understanding of His mind and works. The
practical use it makes of this correlation, and the
            inference it draws,                        thoroughly intelli
practical   rational assurance          tihsatthe"     eye hath not seen,
gible and
nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of
man to conceive, what God hath prepared for them
that love Him." '

   On Tuesday, the 30th of July, 1895, the Duke was

married in the private chapel of The Palace at Ripon

to Ina, youngest daughter of Archibald McNeill, of
Colonsay, Argyllshire, and Private Secretary to Queen

Victoria. A quotation from a letter, written by the

Queen the day previous to the marriage, shows the
kind interest Her Majesty felt on the occasion :

  I' Dearest Ina,

         ' think of you much, and shall especially on
Tuesday.'

* Rev. xxii. 15.                                 t 1 Cor. xiii. 12.

550  LITERARY WORK  [chap. xlvti

   On the occasion of his marriage, the tenantry on his
estates in Kintyre presented an address to the Duke,
which is quoted here, as showing his relations as a land
owner to his tenantry in Argyll, and their appreciation
of all he had done for the benefit and advancement of

the people on his estates :

   ' To His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.O., K.T.

  ' May it please Yoitr Grace,

         ' We, the undersigned tenants on the Kintyre

estates, and others, hail the present auspicious occa
sion as a fitting opportunity for giving expression to
our sincere appreciation of your worth. While we
gladly honour your outstanding ability as a statesman,
a litterateur, and a scientist, we desire to acknowledge
yo'uWr tehorueggahrtdfulougresneelvroessityasasfoartpurnoaptreietinor.having as a
landlord one who has been ever ready to note adverse
influences and changing conditions in agriculture and
to render assistance in the most helpful form. Through
your favour the revaluation of your estate resulted in
reductions of rent, in keeping with agricultural values ;
improvements in farm steadings, labourers' cottages,
fencing, draining, etc., have, through your liberality,
been carried out at great cost, and with the most
satisfactory results.

   ' We are deeply grateful for the encouragement given
by you to the breeding of Clydesdale horses, and the
improvements in the methods of dairy farming; and
we are not unmindful of the fact that we obtained,
long before we were entitled to it, the benefit of the
Ground Game Act.

   ' In conclusion, we trust that you and your Duchess

may long be spared to enjoy every blessing.'

   The address bears the signatures of about one
hundred and eighty of the tenants in Kintyre.

1866-1900] EXPENDITURE ON IMPROVEMENTS  551

   The Duke, as a large land-owner, had given much
attention from an early age to the study of land-
tenure, and of questions affecting the security and
prosperity of rural populations. As he stated in his
autobiography, he was a ' land reformer,' and he
derived the greatest pleasure from seeing the change
effected on the appearance of tracts of country, where
excellent farm-houses and steadings had replaced old
thatched dwellings, and improved agriculture had
given to the face of the land a smiling aspect. He
truly fulfilled his part towards rendering the posses
sions of his forefathers, as he used to express it, ' a

goodly heritage.'

   In connection with his work and responsibilities as

a proprietor of large estates, the fact may be men
tioned, to which allusion is made in the autobiography,
that during the period of fifty years --from the time
of his succession to the Argyll estates in 1847 to the
year 1897 --he expended, out of income, a sum amount
ing to over £554,000* in the improvement of his pro
perties ; and, owing to his wise and far-seeing policy in
the management of his estates, they were doubled in
value during the period of his ownership.

   The Duke's economic studies, which were first

prompted by the duties of his position, were after
wards extended over the history of Scotland, as viewed
from an economic standpoint, and the results were
embodied in a volume entitled ' The Unseen Founda

tions of Society,' published in 1893. In the preface

to this work, he wrote with regard to his interest in
the science of political economy :

   ' My own education on the subject began with the
circumstances which brought about the memorable

    * This fact is quoted from a legally attested statement, drawn
up by desire of the Duke in 1897.

552                       LITERARY WORK               [chap. xlvii

Iconversion of Sir Robert Peel.         was a constant and
attentive listener, under the gallery of the House of
Commons, to the great debates which preceded and
followed his attainment of power in 1821.'

   A letter written by the Duke when he was between
sixteen and seventeen years old, to Mr. John Campbell,

gives a description of one of his early visits to the

House of Commons :

                                     ' February nth, 1840.
I' came to London in time to hear the two last
Inights of the debate upon Sir T. Bulwer's motion.

On the first of these heard Lord Stanley deliver the
very fine speech which you have, of course, read. On
Ithe second heard that splendid oration of Sir R. Peel.
I waited      from five o'clock in   eaxspethcetatgiorenatof"  hDeaanrin"g*
              was gratified as soon
him, and
sat down, which was at twelve o'clock. The three
hours he occupied with his speech passed like half an
Ihour, and the moment he sat down, which was at three

o'clock in the morning, bolted, just turning my head
e"nHouegchh,  to see that John       Russell  was on   his legs.
              sirs, it's time to be  aff noo  !" The  character
of the illustrious Dukef at the end of Peel's speech
was really beautiful, and so impressively delivered.'

A few quotations from ' Unseen Foundations of
Society ' give an idea of the Duke's views on economic
questions. In the preface to the book he states that

' the doctrine of Burke, often praised by Cobden, and

since epitomized by Mr. Morley,      :   seemed    to          m" efutthilee
                                                  is a
only sound doctrine--namely, this        that it

and mischievous system to deal with agriculture
as if it were different from any other branch of

commerce." '

     * Daniel O'Connell.             t Duke of Wellington.

1866-1900]       POLITICAL ECONOMY                           553

He further adds :

  I' have never  been  cianlleadnyththein"gMlaiknechceosmtepr leStechsoyoml."
                 was
pathy with what
Not a few of them seemed to me to be tainted with
the narrow and erroneous teaching of Ricardo, and
their language too often implied the curious delusion
that Protectionism was the special and the evil device
of land-owners. They seemed wholly forgetful of the
fact that the trading and manufacturing classes had
been the earliest, and for centuries continued to be
the most vehement, supporters of Protection and
monopolies. Again, the language of that school con
cerning war, and their complete oblivion of the great

part it has played in the progress of mankind, always

struck me as unnatural, and especially as unhistorical.
Above all, the coldness, to say the least, with which
they regarded the contest that ended in the passing
of the Factory Acts convinced me that their views of
political economy moved within a comparatively con
tracted circuit of ideas.'

   The following passage, which occurs in the book
itself, refers to the Duke's earlier study of political

economy :

' In reading the old orthodox economists, with how
Iever little critical            had
                               almost
or less conscious
                  resistance,          alownayesvebryeenpamgeo--re
                 of a want--
Iwhich, even to myself, could hardly specify or define.
They seemed to me like men always sounding in
abysmal waters, always busy in recording depths, but
Iwholly unconscious that their lead had never touched
a
                          is

                                                        if,
the bottom.  felt constantly as                              down below the
short limit of their line,
running of which they took  there were deep                  curr"enWtse
                            no note whatever.
start, for soul wanting there," was a line of Byron
which kept constantly repeating itself in my ear.
Many superficial facts were admirably observed, and
tremendous superstructure was often built upon

554  LITERARY WORK                          [chap. xlvtt

them. Far more fundamental facts, strictly relevant
and cognate, were left, because less gross and palpable,
in obscurity and neglect.'

  In the summing up of this work the Duke refers

more directly to the great subject of Free Trade :

' We all know that in our own time the battle of
economic science has been chiefly fought round the
question of what are called Protective tariffs. This
Iis only one of the many questions of policy upon which
economic science has a special bearing.  do not seek
Ito deny or to detract from the great importance at

taching to that question. . . . Neither do wish to
compromise or conceal my own opinion that the argu
ment in favour of Free Trade, or free exchange, between
nations as between individuals, is as a general principle
triumphant all along the line. But it is very far from
the be-all and end-all of economic science. Even
when considered in itself alone, there are some limita
tions on its universal applicability which, in general
terms at least, are admitted by the most rigid members
Iof the Cobden School, whilst there are a few of these

limitations which have found specially excepted by
the same set of economists.'

   In connection with this subject, the following letter
to Lord Playfair is of interest, as in it the Duke dis

cussed the question of Free Trade, regarding which he
used to say ' the last word has not been spoken ':

                                         ' Inveraray,
                              ' March 9th, 1888.
' My dear Playfair,
     I' have read your article on the depression with
Igreat interest, and have no doubt your explanation
I Iis t'hFerereighTtraodneer. as have always been, see that the
whole theory has not yet been thought out.

1866-1900]                    FREE TRADE                                  555

' What do you make of the facts you quote about
beet-sugar ? Are you sure that this great trade and
great item of production would ever have been brought

to what it has become if Napoleon had not pampered

Iit by fiscal protection ?

   ' doubt it. At all events, his measures have had
this effect.
   ' Then, again,             " depression "    means cheapness.          It
won't do, then, to argue that mere cheapness is always
and' Yneetceistsamriulyst
                           a  benefit.
                              be always
                                         a benefit  to those whose
                                                same. But this, again,
means of    tphuerc"haFsaeirreTmraadinerst'he"  argument that too great
is exactly
cheapness does diminish the purchasing power of large
producing classes.
   ' And this is true, within certain limits, and to a
certain extent. Then, again, Free Trade may and
d"oFerseeex"tinrgeupilsyh  isp,ro"dSuoctimonuschatthpearbtiectutelarr     places. The
                                                                       ;   the produc
tion will go on better elsewhere." Yes ; but suppose
India extinguishes the jute factories of Dundee ? The
Dundeeites won't like it !'

   The year 1897, which was memorable as the year of
the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Victoria, was also the
fiftieth year since the Duke's accession to the Argyll

title and estates. In the month of May the Duke, at

the request of his wife, wrote the following lines to be
illuminated and framed for Her Majesty's birthday :

        ' Thou earnest with the May --this month of flowers --
             Thy birth a dower of blessings for thy land ;

           May He who gave thee then now keep thee still
             Safe in the hollow of His Holy Hand P

Afterwards, thinking over his first meeting with the
Queen, when he was a boy of fourteen, he added some
verses, the first written forming the last verse of the

556  QUEEN VICTORIA   [chap. xlvtt

little poem which was sent to the Queen. Her Majesty
in reply wrote :

   ' My dear Duke,
         ' Thank you so much for your charming lines

for my old birthday.'

                     'TO THE QUEEN.

                             A Memory of 1837.

                                                  (1897.)

        ' Deep in the shade of Windsor's forest leaves,
              When thy young steps had climbed this Island throne,

       I saw thee passing with that aged friend*

               Whose loyal counsels first inspired thine own.

        ' Thy Form to me seemed slender for the weight

          It had to lift among the crowns of Earth ;
       I could not know the sweetness and the strength

           Enshrined in thee-- as if by right of birth.

      I I' One thing saw, for as bent my head

             Thou gav'st the wandVing boy a gracious smile ;

        It seemed a radiance of the sun to him,

              And lives in mem'ry though a long erewhile.

        ' And then, midst light and shade of many years,
              I've seen thy Queenhood in a golden age,

          Unfold the story of thy reign, and tell
              Thy sorrows, too, in one pathetic page.

        ' But never have these sorrows dulled thine eye
              For those who suffer pain in all thy realm ;

           Few hearts have bled like thine, yet few have known

            To speak as thou where troubles overwhelm.

       ' Thou eamest with the May -- this month of flowers --
            Thy birth a dower of blessings for thy land :

          May He who gave thee then now keep thee still
            Safe in the hollow of His Holy Hand.'

     Lord Melbourne.

1866-1900]           LETTERS FROM QUEEN VICTORIA           557

   The Queen's long friendship with the Duke was
marked by an extensive correspondence, but, although
Her Majesty graciously granted permission for some
of those letters to be reproduced in the autobiography,

many are of so private a nature that it is deemed

advisable only to quote one or two, as evidences of the

Queen's great regard for one who had so long served
her with such single-minded devotion :

            From the Queen {February 6th, 1884).

' Dear Duke,
            ' Pray accept my best thanks for your book,*
Iwhich looks most interesting, and which shall like
I Ito read when am a little more quiet.
                                                           always
Iadmired all you wrote so much. The drawing of the
lIitstelee  bird is  very  pretty.     always   think of you when
            any of   your  favourite  birds at  Balmoral. . . .
                           ' Believe me always,
                                      ' Your affectionate
                                                 ' V. R. & I.'

' My dear Duke,                                 ' July 13th, 1893.

            I' feel so grateful to you for helping me in my
Idifficult position, as feel so utterly alone. And from
your high position, your experience, your wisdom, and
Iyour near connection with me you are so suited to give
me good advice and to help me.                  thank you so much
for your letter.
                           ' Ever your affectionate

                                              ' V. R. &. I.'

   In commemoration of the Diamond Jubilee of the

Queen, the Duke restored a large hall at Inveraray,
which had been built about the middle of the previous
century, on the banks of the River Aray, at a short

                             * 'The Unity of Nature.'

558  JUBILEE  [chap. xx vii

distance from the castle. It was originally used as a

riding-school and theatre, until it was partially de

stroyed by fire in 1817. It was now intended to be

used for entertainments and lectures for the benefit of
the tenantry. On the occasion of the opening of the

hall, a ball was given, at which the county and tenantry

were entertained. At the commencement of the pro
ceedings, addresses of congratulation were presented to
the Duke by the Provost and magistrates of the Royal

Borough of Inveraray, by the tenantry, and by the

Kirk Session. In these, allusion was made to the

' pride ' with which his people, ' in common with the
whole of Scotland,' had watched his ' brilliant career
in statesmanship, philosophy, science, and literature '
during his long public life, and they concluded with
expressions of attachment, and grateful recognition of
his ' many acts of generosity and kindness.'

   In his reply, the Duke, while expressing his gratifica

tion at the touching addresses he had received, made
a point of stating that the festivities were primarily in
honour of the Diamond Jubilee of ' our beloved and

incomparable Queen.'

   A few weeks later, the Jubilee Hall was again in

requisition on the occasion of the inauguration of a
Literary Society at Inveraray, when the Duke de
livered an address* on the subject, ' What is Science ?'
which was illustrated by diagrams painted by himself.

   This lecture is alluded to in a letter to Lord Dufferin,
who, with Lady Dufferin and one of his daughters, had
left Inveraray a few days before :

   ' Your visit here was a great pleasure to me. It

brought back old days so nearly and dearly, and at our
age such repetitions are precarious. . . .

                    * This address was afterwards published.

1866-1900]  LECTURE ON SCIENCE    559

I' Last night had a triumph very astonishing to
Imyself.    had engaged to deliver a lecture, and ex
pected to speak about an hour, when, lo ! and behold,
I I Iwhen

hours
--          sat down found           had spoken exactly two
            a perfect torrent of  talk, and my voice as strong
Ias
Iit
it ever was in my life  !It        could not have believed
                                  is the longest speech
possible beforehand.
ever made in my life.'

   From his childhood, natural history had been a great
interest in the Duke's life, as he relates in his auto
biography. Perhaps no sensitive child, growing up
to boyhood and youth in Argyllshire, could ever
afterwards be altogether deaf to the voices of wind and
water, or blind to the suggestions of mountain and
mist and sea. The mystical emotion aroused by these
influences was interwoven with his thoughts on all
the varied questions of high import which so early

engrossed his mind. It blended with his religious

belief, and even tinged with poetry his speculations
on those branches of science which seem to have the

least affinity with the imaginative faculty. Gradually
he was led to take up the study of the natural sciences
one after another, and to follow their rapid develop

ment with unwearied zeal to the end of life. It is in

some of his poems that his feeling for Nature finds

its fullest expression. In one of his later poems he

describes Glenshira, near Inveraray :

          I' hear the sound of torrents, and the air

                   Is full of liquid murmur from the hills ;

            I see delaying clouds on summits bare,

                   The wand'ring fountains of a thousand rills.

                 Beneath my feet the low, soft music tones

                  Of crystal waters from the dash and fall
                Now rise from ripples over silver stones,

                   Slow passing into pools which hush them all.

560              POETRY                                 [chap. xlvii

          There, trembling for a while beneath the fern,
              They glide beside fair banks of meadow-sweet,

          Repay the patience of the watching hern
            With crimson-spotted trout ; and then they greet

          Their own great father by the mountain-side
            That looks for ever on his rhythmic tide.'

Of the song of the willow-wren he wrote :

             ' It hath some mystic power to raise

                       Dreams of a world unknown.'

And of the wind on the lonely moor :

             I' know not whence it came

                         Nor how its accents fell ;

              IBut the blessed words it spake to me --
                           These remember well.'

   The Duke's close observation of Nature is illustrated
by the following story, told in his own words, of his
discovery of a very rare fungus in a fir-cone carried

by a raven in flight :

' A raven flew over my head the other day at
IInveraray with something in his bill.  shouted, and
Ihe dropped it.  found it was a fir-cone presenting
an unusual appearance, from being covered on the inside
Iof each scale with a small parasitical fungus.         know
Inothing of the fungi, but guessed that if the raven
Ithought it curious it probably was so.  sent it to
Sir William Hooker, and he writes to me that it is
the Parichena strobilina, of which only one other

specimen has ever been found in Scotland, and that it
is very rare anywhere ! Had the raven a private
museum ?'

   The study of ornithology always possessed a great

Iattraction for the Duke. He looked on birds as almost

human in their alert intelligence. ' am satisfied,'

1866-1900]               EARLY LETTERS                          561

he wrote to Professor Palgrave, 'that the lower

tahneim"alass,peactndof  especially birds,    do  enjoy immensely
                         Nature," though    they  don't write poems

thereupon.'

   His observation of bird life began very early. At

the age of thirteen he wrote the following letter to
Sir James Stewart of Allanbank :

I, ,M,y dear Sir J_ames,                               ' Akdencaple,
       ' received the other                     'January 11th, 1837.

                                            night by Sir James
Riddell the valuable box which you have been so kind
as to send to me, and know not how to thank you for
so handsome a present. Your etchings and the plates

Iof Jenmark are the most beautiful things ever saw,
Ibut it will be a long time before can copy the latter,
Ithough have begun painting birds from nature.
The accuracy with which each pattern of the birds is

Idelineated surprises me a good deal, and makes me
long to be able to do the same.                   think the stuffed

specimens you sent me very beautiful, especially the
Ishrike, which is really a very beautiful bird. The

other day had the falcons out at Rosneath, and had
the pleasure of seeing one flight at a partridge, but
it got into cover too soon to give the hawk much
            He happened  to      pass close to me, and
            made in the  air     was like a rifle-bullet.
Ichance.                                                        the

noise he                                                         It
was really a beautiful sight, and wish you had been
there to see it. The flight of the trained eagle which
you describe must have been very grand, though
the sport must have been rather a dangerous one.
IThis severe weather has sent away all the woodcocks

from us, and think they have gone further west,
where the weather is in all probability more open ;
however, it has brought more divers into the loch, and
yesterday, whilst crossing over to Rosneath, the head
Iof agreat Northern      diver                              to the boat,
      could not get      a shot  aaptpeita. redItclkoespet
but                                                          an amazing
vol. ii.
                                                            36

562     NATURAL HISTORY                                        [CHAP. XLVII

Itime under water, and then put its head above, and
then down again immediately.                           have sent the game
keeper to-day to Rosneath along the shore to see if he
can get anything new for my pencil, the plates of
Jenmark having made me ten times more anxious to be
able to paint birds well. Sir James Riddell is going to
I Igive me a beautiful specimen of the wild swan, which

will arrive, hope, to-day ; am very anxious to see it.
IYou mention in your letter that Adelaide* seems

determined to go to Canada with Lord Arthur, but
hope that either the suppression or suspension of
Papineau and his companions in rebellion will dispense
with the necessity of sending out any more troops, and
rele' aWseithpokoirndAedsetlariedme efmrobmranscuecsh  an  ordeal.
Imany thanks for her kindness,                         to                 and
                                                           Lady Stewart,

     '  am,     dear Sir James,
             '  Yours s'inGceeroerlgy,e

                                                           D.  Campbell.

I' P.S. -- have painted the blue-tit, the cole-tit, the
longtailed-tit, the green linnet, and yellow-hammer
with pretty good success.
                                                       ' G. D. Campbell.'

  In 1839, at the age of sixteen, he wrote again to

Sir James Stewart :

  I' My dear Sir James,
          ' have given up drawing landscape, and have
turned my attention more successfully, and much more
to my taste, to the drawing and painting of birds.

ITo do this well have a great ambition, as ornithology
Ihas ever been my favourite study, and in this am
I Iglad to think that am writing to a sympathizer.

have really succeeded beyond my expectations in this
way, and hope you will agree with me when you have
an opportunity of seeing some specimens of my powers.

                * Lady Arthur Lennox, cousin to the Duke.


                                  iiTHUXTM :l'iXSIH

VHfl Mplllt ,riv-i«-. pUB Il^rtfl )iul
       iwop                       "AfiMVipoUIUll       l

                                                               ·I i!

j>.iniliAiiI-i\oit\i·?tit!!'..QoouA|*iujoi.Acxji'^rlVv'eS.uupuajdn-iu"iqii'i^vnOiv'v"}M·mi.i'o.jq»Tqjrf}jfAvnautv?\«ou\.ou..pth"Cai!!io-[?uoouiyjuiIi[oiwjK!ujj"$ij>3l^s-uiAiiino!iwuiUp*o»W:·]viiff'j-·;iy\

p.i!niux-niI' ii{ ii- iv| a BpTTir -|its\·             ;i

             \

                             ir\

undvi| tm; \inv \\ - 'j.i sniiMir.iit in -i.r
J}iiv* vii)i \:i"Ci;D,in tii is " ?iU!; inii

   ' HM.W MiifP[ v-' km.ij ; saouvjd

                , f '·i(« !*·""i jI< IV|* i

                                                            

. ;\ .' .ii! rp itis; j' \ i\ '·

i..i"·.         |v >iM "··'"! v>ji«va ins
           y'"i»'! 0\             j) iilti.«W}i
                                  iv\i!ij ti iv;v.lh'  111  l
          .1 ]|.mv [
       '
: J.*.i -» . AH! O^tniiMB} '"jilTJH
1i1!i"! iil ..   i1 }1 | i:m ^UjiUtt v\
.i.\i:tj i  · ]i.i]i,ii.·i";. puiii.iq aim ·

*t \.  . · . tioS* s\ \y oi.i."'{! u.w ·

           .  K- yi, S?mii«i                           ··.'"iI*


:

1866-1900]     THE DUKE AS AN ARTIST                               563

I IOnly think of my arrogance when tell you that
Iam contemplating having a lithograph taken of a

drawing and painting have made of a peregrine
falcon, one of those which a gamekeeper near us has
Itrained to hunt in the old style of falconry !                    have

taken a regular ornithological drawing of this mag
nificent bird, having delineated each feather, and with
I Iwh'aTthseucccerossss-bihllsopehasvoeonntoowelneafbt leusy--ouattoleajusdt,ge. have
Inot seen or heard of any for a long time.                         was
amused with your description of the frigate bird, but
Iyou have drawn a deduction from the length of its

wings and smallness of its body which am afraid will
not hold good. You seem to think that its flight
      wionrdc, on"sepqroudenigcieousb.e"  very quick or,  to use   your
must                                        Now a bird's   flight  is in
own

the inverse ratio to the size of its wing in proportion
to the weight of its body, as you may see by comparing
the flight of the heron (whose wings are enormous in
proportion to the weight of her body) with that of the

red-throated diver (whose wings are so small that it

requires the bird to make them go like a fly-wheel
to keep her up at all). You will find that the latter
goes at a tremendous rate, while the former goes in a
slow and laboured manner; the greater the bird's
downward tendency in proportion to its supporting
power, the quicker the bird flies, because the greater
is the impetus which the wings have merely to direct
and support.'

   Painting continued to be one of the Duke's favourite

recreations in later days. He preferred oil to water-
colour as a medium, and as he was a very rapid worker,
he possessed many records of beautiful scenes which
had impressed and delighted him. Of his pictures it
may be said that they showed truthful observation of
Nature, both in colour and form. His sketches were

not only portraits of the places depicted, but even the

                                                                                 36--2

564                         NATURAL HISTORY          [chap. xlvu

special character of the passing clouds was noticed and
portrayed. His geological drawings were remarkable
for their accuracy and reliability for scientific purposes,
and his knowledge of geology caused him sometimes

to criticise the works of artists, in which, however
beautifully executed, rocks were depicted of a for
mation unknown in the locality represented.

   The study of birds, which was his first intellectual
interest, possessed the same fascination for the Duke

all his life. On March 2nd, 1896, he wrote to Lord
Lilf ord :

I' hope you will allow a very old friend as an orni
Ithologist to introduce himself to you as a friend also
in that   foprerIsownisahl   acquaintance    which      have long
desired,                    to congratulate  you on  the beautiful

Iand charming book on the birds of Northamptonshire

which have been reading with delight for several
days, having read also all you have written for many
Iyears on that branch of natural science which has

been my great attraction since was a child.
    ' There       many points    inespyeocuirallby o--oknawmheilcyh,  have
interested   are  greatly ; one                                       your
              me                                      little owl.
                                                     any species
IsItucicsesasmoinst              increasing the
             establishing or     do, to establish
             difficult thing to
in a new habitat.           made a gallant attempt some
Itwenty years ago to introduce the nut-hatch (a great
favourite of mine) in Argyllshire.           have there woods
Iof oak, beech, and pine of great age and size, and very

extensive in range. bought at Brighton some dozen
or more nut-hatches, let them out in May, when the
insect life was becoming abundant, but not one was
ever seen again ! Yet they must have traversed miles
and miles of open mountainous land in order to escape

I Isouthward. Is it possible that they can all have been

of one sex ? don't think so, although do not know
very well how far the sexes are different in plumage
in that species.

1866-1900]        LETTER TO LORD LILFORD          565

  I I' Anent the dipper, need not say how agree with
Iyou in loving them. have three salmon streams in my
Iestates which they haunt. never allow one to be shot.
IWe have many pairs, but they never seem to increase
much. As to their propensities,      have had ocular
Idemonstration that                   and that
                     they eat fish,  fish in his  bgirlel--edoilnye.
Twice have seen a    dipper with a
was a trout or salmon fry, the other was a small
flounder. This was in the sea-pool of the river Aray
below my house. The flounder was, of course, a
Ismall one, but it was as broad as the white waistcoat
of its devourer.  had a good glass, and saw the dipper

emerge with the little flounder in his bill. He then
took it to a large boulder-stone near the bank, and
began beating it to death against the stone. Twice
it slipped off into the stream, and each time it was
firmly pursued and brought back to the block ! All
aquatic piscivorous birds seem to have a way of
Idoubling and folding up the flat fishes they catch

so as to get them down, but did not see the feat
performed in the present case. Do you think the little
Iowl would live if simply turned out at Inveraray ?
  have some fear lest, though we have plenty of mice,
the comparative scarcity of the larger Coleoptera, such
as cockchafers, would make living difficult for them
Iin Scotland. You          havbeousugphpt lietdwofoo"dctivoetthteem"

for a considerable
                  seem to
                    time.
in Rome, and took them in a cage with me home.
We travelled with Gladstone. He was immensely
captivated by the brilliant yellow eyes of the birds.
They fastened them on Gladstone's brown eyes with

a fixed stare, and he took it into his head to try if he
could stare them out of countenance. He continued
to joke all the way from Rome to near Perugia, and at

last the owls gave it up and looked away. He seemed
I I Itntahrseieuvdemersplaigshmeh.eetnedsTtphheaeicssiebiIsftiarhdaliesainnhoau"dr"tchw"ievolenitftlttelaaesh"g."breiriasdt,"nPdoaitbdr,luiantmotetnkhhtniaanovrkwye,

566  POETRY  [chap. xlvti

till last year that we possessed the long-eared owl in
Argyllshire, but one was caught last spring in a trap

set to guard some young pheasant chicks.'

                             To Lord Lilford.

*****I I' send you a little volume of poems* published a

few years ago, for the sake of some verses on birds
which you will find in it. You will see what a favourite
of mine is the dipper. The story of the swallow at
Danbury is literally true.
   ' Is it not true that the rattle of woodpeckers on
rotten trees is the only instance of instrumental music
in nature ?'

   From the volume above referred to, the following
poem is quoted :

     ' SONG OF THE WATER-OUSEL (DIPPER).

                 ' My home is on the rivers
                      That run among the hills,

                     Through all the sloping valleys,
                        Down all the moorland rills.

                   ' But clear must be the waters
                        As they glide and rush along,

                     And the woodlands must be lonely
                      That harken to my song.

                 ' For there my rhythmic numbers
                        Are spread among the stones,

                     And the listening water answereth
                      In its own low murmuring tones.

                   ' And thus we keep such melody
                      As the world has never known,

                   For the river never ceaseth
                      To love me as its own.

* ' Burdens of Belief and other Poems,1 published January, 1894.

1866-1900]  SONG OF THE WATER-OUSEL              567

            I' love it for the gladness

                It speaketh in my ear,

             In all its wayward windings
                 Through the cycle of the year.

            ' For in the months of summer,
                 When its gentlest currents run

             In streams of liquid amber
                All golden in the sun ;

            ' And in the months of winter,
                 When every stone is set

             In fretted sheets of silver
                 That have not melted yet,

            ' We keep our music sounding
                  When other birds are still,

              Singing, singing, evermore

                At our own sweet will.

            ' And when the primrose opens
                 Its soft and steady eye,

              We then begin our nesting,
                 My merry wife and I.

            ' We choose some bank o'erhanging,
                 And weave a wondrous dome,

              Where she can hear the waters
                 And watch the specks of foam

            ' That come from all the breakings,
                  Though they be miles away,

              Yet never miss the eddies
                 That bring them by her way.

             ' And all the days of summer
                  We dive into its breast ;

              And we rout among the pebbles,
                 And feed the teeming nest.

568  POETRY                                  [chap. XLVIl

     ' And we love to see the shimmer
          As it rushes overhead,

      And we flutter in the noises

          That gurgle from its bed ;

     'And we scatter little cataracts

         That tumble through our wings
      When we shake the drops from off" us

         In a shower of silver rings.

     ' And when we see the movings
         Of little wings that strive,

      We never need to teach them

          Or how to swim or dive.

     ' For the music of the river

          Has taught them ere we know,
      As came their glossy feathers,

          As came their breasts of snow.

     ' For the pleasant river loved them
          Before they left the nest ;

      It laves them in its ripples,
         It bears them on its breast.

     ' And from its banks of blaeberry
          The tall, white stalks of grass

      Bend down their plumes to watch us

          And cheer us as we pass.

     ' Then we hunt the golden shallows,
          We sound the crystal deeps,

      And rest where round some boulder stone

          The languid current sleeps.

     ' At last, a merry family,

          We face the autumn weather,

      And spread all up the mountain rills,
          By banks of fern and heather.'

1866-1900]         LORD LILFORD                    569

            From Lord Lilford {March 13th, 1896).
' Dear Duke of Argyll,
          ' Thank  y"ouBumrdoesnt scoorfdBiaellliyeffoarnydouOrthleetrteProeomf sthe"
        about the
I11th              have only as yet had time to dip
just received.
IicS"naotSrnoeegfluby,"loourtnthrheoe,pu"rgeh"hfaatDcve;ea,nbgbuwiuvtheriynchmmSareweyqamuslloiaorsyewts,t"phcualroteasneyddoeaulitmrgtheo"tns.ttDioipnopf earna'dsll

            *****
I' should say that, unless you admit feathers as
instruments, the woodpecker's rattle is the only
Iinstance of mechanical bird music, in this country
at all events.     trust that you are better, and remain
                   ' Yours most truly o'bLliiglefod,rd.'

   The correspondence with such an eminent ornitho
logist was a great pleasure to the Duke, as their tastes

were in such perfect sympathy, and he deeply regretted
the death of Lord Lilford, which took place only a few

weeks after the letter quoted above was written.
   On June 24th, 1896, Lady Lilford wrote:

I I' feel owe a debt of gratitude to you ; your letters
were a great pleasure to him, and your book of poems.
The           to"  rGefirlbesehrtmeWnthi"te    delighted him. He said
there   one                                  in it to him. He read it
         was
often to me, and only two days before his sudden ill

ness.'

  A letter from the late Lord Selborne (September 21,

1893) refers to the same poems:

  I' am very glad that you are taking steps for the

publication of your poems. They are well worthy of

570  POETRY                               [chap. XLvn

Iit, and will be widely read.     a"mSenlobtornperep"arisedvearyt

Ipresent to say which like best.
Igood, but am not sure that it is best.'

   The first verse of the poem on the ' Selborne ' of
Gilbert White, which has been specially alluded to,
is here quoted :

                           'SELBORNE.

     ' How oft in sickness, when the languid brain
          Longed for the freshness of a summer wood,

      And the tired reason could not bear the strain
         Of ordered thinking which before it stood,

      Have I, so longing, just re-read the page
          Of him who wrote of Selborne and its birds,

      To whom through years of slow and peaceful age
          Did kindly Nature whisper all her words,

      Of spring and summer and of autumn sheaves,
          Of strange soft days in winter out of place,

       When wakened swallows flew without the leaves,

         And stranger wings had lit in Wolmer chace.'

   The Duke was an ardent lover of poetry, and, as

his published poems show, he was himself practised
in the art of verse, with which he sometimes beguiled
spare moments in his busy life. His poems express
chiefly the thoughts of a student of Nature, but some

are tributes to friends. In choice of subject, as in
attitude of mind, the Duke was a pupil of Words

worth, as he mentions in a letter to Professor Palgrave,
to whose criticism he frequently submitted his verses :

   ' You are quite right,' he wrote, ' as to the early

Isource of any poetry may have in me. All the
Iearlier part of my life was a Wordsworthian.'

  At a later date, when the star of the great poet

Tennyson had risen on the world, the Duke placed

1866-1900]   TENNYSON  571

him far before all other poets in his estimation. They
met first in the house of Lord John Russell, on the

evening of March 3rd, 1851, and the acquaintance
then made ripened into a warm and close friendship,
of which a record is preserved in the many letters
which passed between them, some of which have
already been published in the memoirs of Lord Tenny
son, written by his son. Some hitherto unpublished

letters are given here :

                                                               'September 23rd, 1859.

I' My dear Mr. Tennyson,

      ' meant to have written to you some days
ago, when, to us, an inscrutable paragraph appeared
in the papers, to the effect that a Lisbon steamer had
brought a lot of bullion and the Poet Laureate. As
we had not heard you speak of going either to Portugal
or elsewhere abroad, and as just before we left town

I Ihad heard from you, on your way to London, was
greatly puzzled, and write to ask what you have been

doing and seeing, if you will tell us.

  I' Meanwhile, how have your idylls flourished ?
Ifound before left town that Gladstone carried them
Iin his pocket, and rather think you will be responsible
Ifor a spoilt Budget ! Beautiful as thought them at
I Ifirst, find new beauties every time read them.
IBy-the-by, Macaulay, when last saw him, was in
great hopes that you would pursue the subject, and
particularly mentioned the legend of the Sangreal as
one capable of being made much of in your hands,
as also the latter days and death of Lancelot. Do
give us more, when you can. One's greed is insati

able. . . .  ' Yours most sinc'eArerlyg, yll.'

572                                   POETRY                        [chap. xi.vn

     To Mr. Tennyson {January 20th, 1860).

  I' . . . We have mourned over Macaulay's death.

He had dined with us on December 6th, and never
saw him in greater force, or with more abundance of
Iknowledge and anecdote.                      have been allowed to
I IH--wbcheoaotdnlwooldsee"eeyrnaoawnudthbwikooconofhk--oSywaofarrunpothimw'esaodt"huitilHSsidocinlshoibtatotroviarsefyrhyCcohrwfaaotbosshbreedaen'.Csrfeoomur"ne"hTcmeiaslbslwoeirtaifsatntThecoeredefr.endt?th--,e""
I Ihbios'tthAortfiuclalalls.ot fYIhoicushrpose"enScetihlaenDorltaeeatstm.ers, "ashamveosbt eianutetirfeusl tdinegscarinpd

tions, although do not quite like, as told you,
the frame of the picture. By all means let us have

Iin such form of publication, or any other, such bits

as you may have beside you ; but want you to go
on with the larger design and the cycle of subjects
on which you must have thought so long and much.
lItonhnegthSeaagnolga,rsedtaolnno--etewanhydaotuhMwadaroctaleouslttaoywmhsueagtgyeyosoutuedsah--iadwd yriowttuerinthteaodnn,.
Do not leave the subject, pray. There are many vacant
                  at your Round       Table.    Fill them up, do.
pla'cSeusmyneetr   was delighted      with his  visit to
                                                ' Ever    you.

                                                          y' oAurrgs,yll.'

     To Mr. Tennyson {October 28th, 1861).

' It seems a very long time since we have heard
of or from you. What have you been doing ? And
Iwh'aWt earedidyohueadroinagre?porAtnadbohuotw"isBoyaoduircewaife"
                                                                    ?   forth

                                                                    as
coming, but we did not believe it, though should be
glad to hear it was all true. We have had such a
sraeains--onsaixsteneenverinwchaess,  even in this country.     Rain,   rain,
                                                             !    But   now
                                       of it in one month

1866-1900]                TENNYSON                                      573

that we are about to leave, the weather is superb, but

cold. The Duchess was so ill last winter that we
intend to pass December on the shores of the Mediter
ranean this year. We go southward in a few days,
and if you are disposed to be good and charitable, you
may give us a little account of yourself addressed to
IClieveden, Maidenhead, about the 10th November.
HItavmeusytoubeseebneaAuutvifeurlg--negr?anitealwcraaytsersw, isahndto  go there.
                                                                        chestnut-
woods on lava streams. Do you care much about
America just now ? We are far more Northern than
            our friends.  Poor Motley      had to flee
most of      He thought   its Southern  "  proclivities                 "thseo
country.

irksome.

  I' Will
             ...      your  wife  our  kindest  regards.

            you give
hope she is well, and your two b'oEysv.er you' rAs,rgyll.'

   The Poet Laureate read to the Duke, at Argyll
Lodge, in 1857, the proof-sheets of the ' Idylls of the
King,' before they had been given to the world. The
Duke, who was greatly impressed by the splendour of
the poems, afterwards composed a few lines, which
are inserted here, and which were included in a little

volume which he dedicated to Lady Tennyson :

             I' hear the voice whose organ tones

                     Will sound through Time for ever,
                   While mourning hearts still live in love

                       That Death has failed to sever ; --

                      Strong human voice, deep, tender, true
                       To every mood of sorrow,

                   To broken accents round the grave,
                       And to the calmer morrow ;

                    To blessed memories of the dead :
                       To converse pure and high

                    In fruitful gardens of the soul

                         'Mid blooms that cannot die ;

574                                    POETRY                                      [chap. xlvii

                     To clouds that gather in the dark,
                        Then break with flash and thunder

                     In rending strokes that leave us mute ;
                        The mystery and the wonder

                     That wait on death. All chords are thine :

                        They tremble under thee.
                     Oh ! sound again to soothe and bless

                        Sad souls that are to be.'

The Duke's poem on ' The Burial of Alfred, Lord

Tennyson, in Westminster Abbey, October 12th, 1892,'

was written, as he stated in the preface to a small
volume of verses* in which it was afterwards included,
' under a painful impression of the total omission, or

the very inadequate recognition, in many other obituary
                                                    and ethical character--the
v"esrpselesn, doifd  the noble   "re--ligoifouthse
                      purpose                       great Laureate's writings.'

The Duke added that he would hardly have ventured

to present these verses to the public, as even an ap

proach to the tribute due to Tennyson on the most

majestic aspects of his poetry, had they not been kindly

accepted as such by Lady Tennyson.

From this poem the following verses are quoted :

     ' Prophet and Bard, whose every word

         Will be the home, through coming years,

      Of all who speak this English tongue
          In life and joy, in death and tears.

     ' We lay thee in our sorrow down,
          Remembering all that thou hast said

      Of those who hold, in seeming sleep,

          The vaster knowledge of the dead.

     ' In daring, yet in reverent thought,

                     Unbound by forms which others need,

                     Thine eyes  were  fixed        w" iLthifeloinngdienegd.g"aze
                        On Him   who   is the

     * ' Burdens of Belief and Other Poems,1 published 189-k

1866-1900]             TENNYSON                               575

            ' " Strong Son of God, Immortal Love,"

                 Are words which came from out thine heart.

             We feel them breathing through thy song
                In all its melodies of Art.

            *****' The mysteries of the world to thee
            In all its present, all its past,

            Dissolved  in one undying faith  the      last."
                       Love will conquer at
               That "

            ' No voice so strong to spread your fame,
                 Heroic deeds, recorded here,

             No voice so tender or so true
                For those who stand around the bier.

            *****' And when the gate of science throws
            Too wide her door to guesses wild,

            No    tones like thine may call   them    back
               "  To wisdom as the elder     child."

            *****' And all to perfect music set,
                In tones as sweet as silver bells,

             Or those dear notes in which the thrush
                His love to quiet woodland tells.'
   Regarding this poem, Lady Tennyson wrote (Decem

ber 9th, 1892) :

  I' My dear Duke of Argyll,
          ' cannot say how grateful we are for the
beautiful poem, nor how still more deeply grateful
for the love and insight which it breathes.'

   On hearing from the Duke that he proposed to pub
lish these lines in the National Review for January,
1893, Lady Tennyson wrote (December 29th, 1892) :

  I' Best thanks for telling me of your intention. We

are delighted, as you will know when say that we

576                         POETRY                               [CHAP. XL VII

were questioning whether we might make bold to ask
you if Hallam might put your poem into his memoir,
if you had no other destiny for it.'

   To Professor Palgrave, the Duke expressed his en
thusiastic admiration for the great Laureate in the

following words (November 27th, 1892) :
   ' One feels now, already, how great Tennyson was !

Nobody to come within a thousand miles of him.'

The Duke frequently corresponded with Professor

Palgrave upon literary subjects, chiefly in connection
with poetry, and with regard to the little volume of
poems by the Duke, dedicated to Lady Tennyson, Mr.

Palgrave wrote as follows (February 9th, 1894) :

   ' Very many              tIhtaniskspefrohraptshelitvtleeryto  interesting   and
valuable book.                                                                 is a
                                                                  say that it
much worthier publication than nineteen out of twenty
abroeokssileonft.poeItfryI  brought out now that                 the great voices
                            may say so, its merits
                                                                 both in thought
and in art amply justify its appearance.'

     To Professor Palgrave {September 21st, 1894).

I' Many thanks for your very kind letter about my
book.*  am much pleased that you regard it so
favourably, for, though you do not call yourself a man
of science, you are enough of a philosopher to form a
sound judgment on the bearing of any argument on
the greater questions which lie behind and beyond all
the natural sciences.'

          To Professor Palgrave {June 11th, 1892).
   ' As Wordsworth says, rhymes should seem as in

Ievitable as possible. But the most inevitable-seeming

rhymes know are, very often, Pope's ; and this in

                            * ' The Unity of Nature.1

1866-1900]            POETRY                                          577

numberless passages   in--wvihgiocrhoutsheeyxpsriemspsiloynpouft  the bells
on good common-sense                                              thought,

I Ikc"noWmo' wBhpuyawtra?h"taivta' emIlyandrommt-ipraeo,ecrtyiicteict!
                      by nature,   nor by habit.
                      often find  it hard to answer,

   In Professor Palgrave's second series of the ' Golden

Treasury of Songs and Lyrics,' he included a small
poem by the Duke of Argyll.

   The following poems by the Duke are given as

examples of his style :

                       'TO TRUTH.

' Amidst the tongues and noises of the way
     Loud sounds of passion and the thoughtless cries

 That fill this world, confounding all our day,

    I cannot hear the wisdom of the wise,

  Nor that small voice that comes to those who love
     To catch the lowest whispers of the Truth,

 With strong desire that cometh from above,

   IAnd was my Master in my days of youth ;

 My Master still ; for still long to see
     Th' eternal laws on which the worlds repose,

  Statutes ordained that cannot cease to be,
     Wreaking their silent vengeance on His foes

 Whose Will they are, and which He blesseth so,
 That crowns of Life they wear who find and know.'

   The Duke was a great admirer of the poems of Mr.
William Watson. He did not, however, agree with

the sentiment expressed by the poet in the following

lines :

' Forget not, brother singer ! that though Prose

            Can never be too truthful or too wise,
Song is not Truth, not Wisdom, but the rose

            Upon Truth's lips, the light in Wisdom's eyes.

                                  'William Watson.'

vol. n.                                                           37

578  POETRY  [chap. xlvii

In reply to these lines, the Duke wrote :

       ' Ah no ! my brother singer, thou dost wrong
          The Poet's empire and the fount of song.

        It is not aught that lightly comes and goes ;
        It lieth not in perfume of the rose,

          Passing, evanescent, like the hues that play
          On fall of waters in the blaze of day.
          No surface smile on lip, no glance in eyes
          Can wield the tender spell in verse that lies,

          Verse that doth live, sweet-sounding down the years,
         For those who joy, for those who move in tears,
         For all whose sense is tuned to catch the beats
         That come from pulses in the high retreats
          Where spirit meets with spirit in the lone,
         And hears the music of th1 Eternal Throne ;
         Then pours it out again, because its strings
         Still shake with impulse from the heart of things.

          No links of reason are too strong for thee
         To weld in thy great light, divinest Poesy !
          'Tis thine to image all the gains of truth
         In the clear glass of thine immortal youth ;
         Thy blessed Bards are moved from age to age
         To sing thy tones in some illumined page :
         Thy servant, Knowledge, all that she can find
          Is word and counsel of great Nature's mind,
          The harmonies unbounded, and the roll
         Of notes that sound the triumphs of the soul.
         Sometimes in thunder and in trembling Earth
          Thou hear'st the powers that gave the planets birth.
          Nor less thy measured numbers tell the hours
         That shape the bud and open all the flowers.
          The tuneful lines that fret the ocean-shell,
         But chime the years that it has heard the swell
         In silent stillness, list'ning to the roar
         Of stormy waters breaking on the shore.

        Lift up your heads, ye Poets, for in you

          Shines forth the truth that Beauty is The True.

                                                                       ' Argyll.1

1866-1900]  'AN ISLAND HOME'                                                  579

   Two stanzas of a poem entitled ' An Island Home '

are added, as they describe so vividly the islands of
the West, which he loved :

                                        ii.

' Blow, blow, ye winds of ocean, waft to me
     The gleaming vapours from your fields of foam,

  The boundless conversation of the sea,

     The glorious voices of my early home ;
  And you, ye clouds of heaven, roll for aye

     The gorgeous pageant of your eve and morn ;
  Build up your mighty mountains in the sky,

      And with great lines of battlement adorn
  The wondrous masonry ye work on high :

      Nor less come ye, descending from your throne,
  Come down and dwell on these fair hills of earth, --

      On capes of ancient fire that were your own,
  When smoke and bellowing flame proclaimed their birth.
  Come, too, and drift where now the summer smiles
  On fragments of a land -- these blessed isles.

                                       in.

I' To-day --in this dark passage of my years
         come to greet your rocks and heath again,
 Not free, alas ! from trouble and the tears
     Which follow hard on all the ways of men.
 The seabird skims along its rifted shores ;
    I hear the plover from the sandy dune ;
 The seal floats calmly on her silent oars ;
     Blue ocean shimmers as in suns of June ;
 Great Nature takes no heeding of our pains
     In her calm footsteps to eternal day ;
 She recks not of our losses or our gains --
     Hears now no voices calling me away.
 IFain could hide this sad and burdened breast
  Beneath these golden sands where Vikings rest.
                                                     ' Argyll.'

                                                                       37--2

580  CHARACTERISTICS               [chap. xlvii

   Many have spoken of the great charm of the

Duke's conversation, the spell of which was felt by
all who were included in the circle of his friends.
The happy manner in which he could converse on the
deepest subjects, clothing them with the simplicity of
language in which his thoughts were habitually so clearly
conveyed to others -- the flow of anecdotes culled

from a wide and interesting experience, enhanced by the
quickness of observation which characterized him --the

liveliness of his character, and his keen sense of humour
--traits which were, perhaps, only known to those who
were intimately acquainted with him-- all combined to
render true of him the words, ' Thy converse drew us

with delight.'* The youthfulness of his spirit and his

power of enjoyment were lasting possessions. In

later years he used to say that he supposed he ought

to feel old, but that he never could realize it; only

physioally did he feel the effect of the years. His was
' the receptive soul for whom the river of life pauseth
not, nor is diminished.' f Every hour of his life was
full of work, of fresh interest, of added knowledge.
He was a learner all his days, an eager listener to all
who could impart interesting information, from the
wisdom of stored minds, or the practical experience

gained by the exercise of mechanical skill. In a

memorial speech, the Sheriff of Argyll (Mr. Ferguson
of Kinmundy) applied to the Duke lines which were
felt to express so well the undimmed ardour of his

spirit :

     ' Who knew no touch of Winter in his Soul,

          But kept the Greek gift yet in mind and tongue,
      And who, though having passed life's goal,

          Loved of the gods, died young.'

     * ' In MemoriaEi,' Tennyson.  t George Eliot.

1866-1900] LETTER FROM THE BISHOP OF RIPON                   581

   The Bishop of Ripon, alluding in a letter to a visit
to Inveraray, writes :

    ' It is a pleasure to recall those dear days of refresh
ment and exhilaration, when we sat at the feet of
one who could speak so well and so fluently out of
                                                 out of the enthusiasm
othfesoaublu. ndaItncwe aos f   knowledge and   to meet the Duke and
                               a real pleasure
to hold converse with him. His quick and well-stored
mind, his long experience of men and affairs, his strong
and virile gift of utterance, lifted conversation out of
the languid and conventional groove. To talk with
him was a mental tonic ; it refreshed and invigorated
thought. As for subjects, there were few which did
not interest him. He watched the currents of thought,
and he marked the bearing of scientific methods upon
ancient beliefs, and felt that he could be true to know
ledge and, faith. When he spoke, you knew that he
lived in a world which was always wonderful and
beautiful to him, and which never ceased to bring its
me'ssHaegesdeolfighhotpeed
                               and   love.      Whether we drove
                                 in   Nature.
through the forests aglow with autumn tints, or
steamed down the loch and watched the birds skim
ming over the placid waters, or sat with him in a
garden-shelter looking out upon soft-spreading lawn
or purple hills, his conversation was full of information
or suggestive thought. The age and height of trees,
the structure of a bird's wing as an instrument for
flying, the story of the rocks, or the deposit carried
down by rivers, the romance of growth and change
and progress, all formed themes for acute comment
    brilliant
or  ' He was   exposition.
               a happy and
                                     gifted    interpreter,  aratnicduluantede--r
his guidance Earth's many voices became
full of music and meaning.'

   The following letter from the Archbishop of Canter
bury, who visited Inveraray in 1897, when he was

582                 CHARACTERISTICS             [chap. xlvii

Bishop of Winchester, gives his impression on becoming
more intimately acquainted with the Duke :

I'   My
         'dIeadro  Duchess,
                    not know  when  have more keenly
enjoyed a visit, and my wife is on that point wholly
of one mind with me.

  ' It has been a very real privilege to have the oppor
tunity of hearing and learning so much from the Duke.
Surely there is no other of our contemporaries (I do

not except even the master of Hawarden) who is at
once so able and willing to give to ordinary folk of
the wealth of his knowledge and thoughts on all
Ithings in  heaven and earth and under the    earth.
   * can                                      got no  small
            assure you that I, for one, have
profit from the intercourse of this last week, and your
own untiring kindness made all things bright save the

occasional skies.'

The Duke was particularly well and strong during

the autumn of 1899, and the friends who visited

Inveraray remarked on his vigour ; but in the month

of December he had an attack of gout, which lingered

for many weeks and resisted all remedies. He made

a gallant fight with failing strength ; life held so much

for him, and his life was of great importance to many.

There was useful work to be done for his fellow-men ;

there was his keen interest in the growth of scientific

knowledge, in which he took his part ; there was his

wise administration of his great estates, on which the
welfare of his people depended, and --he was happy.
For all these reasons he would fain have stayed here

a little longer, but the steadfast faith which had never

failed him all his days made rebellion against the
Divine Will an impossibility. He recognised with the
old French Saint that ' Quand
appelle, nous n'avons rien a dire    lqeuebon"   Dieu nous
                                                Me voici," '

1866-1900]  TRANSLATION  583

and at the call he laid down his arms, after a well-
fought field --April 24th, 1900. The impression of
the revelation which so strangely came to the child
of ten years old had abided with him to the end :
' What do they mean when they speak of death ?

There is no such thing as death !'

             CHAPTER XLVIII

                                1900

             APPRECIATIONS

Numerous telegrams, in which the deep regret felt
throughout the country at the sad tidings from
Inveraray was touchingly expressed, were received
       HFearmMilya,jesfrtiyendQsu--eeanndViccltaonrsiam,enm, ewmhboersmooufrntehde
from
Royal
the loss of their ' beloved chief.'

   The Queen who, during the previous anxious
months, had written constantly to ask for tidings of

the Duke, and to express her great sympathy, wrote

without a moment's delay :

                                 ' Viceregal Lodge, Dublin,

I'           Ina,                      <April Mth,  1900.
Dea' redsot  not like  to  miss  a  post without
                                                    expressing
I Itin writing how truly and deeply feel for you.            is
Ia sad satisfaction that you have been able to devote

yourself to Him through this most trying time, and
Ipray that you may be further supported in your over
whelming sorrow and desolation.       have lost a most
Ikind friend of more than fifty years' standing, and

  shall ever cherish h'isEvmeer myooruyr.s affe'cVti.onRat.ely&, I.'

   From the many letters of sympathy and appreciation
received at the time and at a later date, the following
extracts are given :

                                                                    584

1900] EARL OP HALSBURY AND EARL SPENCER 585

From the Earl of Halsbury, at that time Lord

                              Chancellor.

I I'                             Argyll,
Dear      Duchess of                          what great        sorrow
                                  hope, with
      '  need not say,

I learned the great calamity which has befallen you and
the country itself. The great Duke was one of those
men whose genius and eloquence were potent factors
in our national greatness.

  I I' felt much honoured by his friendship, and most
deeply deplore his loss, but to you the loss of one united

Ito you by the tenderest of all ties is one with which
Ican only wish you to believe can only very imperfectly
express my deepest sympathy. There are some feel
ings which no human language can adequately repre

I Isent. May ask you to believe that my wife and
desire to join in your sorrow for one whom we so
much admired and regarded with such respect and
even affection.
         ' Believe
                    me,          de' aVr eDryucthreuslsy  of Argyll,

                                                          yo' Huras,lsbury.'

                 From Earl Spencer.

*****the Home Rule Bill to the House of Lords.
I' My dear Duchess,                                       Duke  which I

       ' have one letter from the
greatly  --vaaluleettwehr icohn  shows how                   an opponent
he was                           my speech  generous         in proposing
                                             in 1892

' He was sometimes very strong, even bitter, in
actual debate, but in private was always generous
and friendly, and never made a difference as to his
private friendship and kindliness towards an old
friend who might be in political opposition to him.
                                 'Yours       very           truly,
                                                          '  Spencer.'

586                   APPRECIATIONS                     [chap. xxvm

        From Mr. Chamberlain.

' My dear Duchess,

        *****
I' May take this opportunity of saying how much
I Ioraatdomryir--ednowyouar                   nothing   of his
        lohsut sbaarnt --d.            say              him in
                             although       it placed
the very front rank of speakers, but his courage,
his love of justice, his strenuous adherence to the
causes he believed to be right, and his far-seeing
judgment on the larger movements of political and
national life, combine to make him one of the greatest
figures of my time.
                      ' Believe me,
                      '
                             Yours         Jv.erCyhatrmulby,erlain.'

                                        '

        From Sir John Murray, K.G.B.
I I* look back on the hours which have spent in
the Duke's company as the most interesting and
Iinstructive of my life. He was the most active-minded
and      many-sided man have   ever        known.       is  a  loss
        He was always kind to   me.          His death
     '

not to be repaired.'

From Professor Story Maskelyne {formerly the Head
      of the Mineralogical Department of the British
       Museum).

  I I' May be allowed to say how glad am that there

will be a record for those coming after us of the per
sonality and the singularly fine nature of one whom
we of the Victorian Era looked up to as a consistent

Istatesman, a thoughtful and original writer on social

and similar matters, and, as can further testify, as a
tru'eAnnadt,urwaliitsht.al, in what clear diction and native
eloquence everything he spoke or wrote was clothed !

1900]       TRIBUTES FROM FRIENDS            587

   ' Forgive my taking this occasion to pay a humble

Itribute to the memory of one whose career followed

with admiration through some forty years, the career of
an independent statesman and of a nobleman worthy
of intellectual Scotland.'

                   From Mr. Bosworth Smith.

  I' It is needless to say that had the greatest admira

tion for the intellect and character of the Duke. His

voice, whenever he spoke or wrote, was a voice, and
not an echo.'

            From Canon Macoll.

I' am very glad your Grace is bringing out a Life of
Ithe Duke. He was a great man and a great orator.

   remember asking Mr. Gladstone in the year 1877
whom    he"coTnhseideDruekdethoef            orator in the House  of
Lords.                             greatest  without a doubt,"
                                   Argyll,                        he

answered.'

From Mr. Dickie {one of the Oldest Tenants on the Argyll

       Estates, and a Member of the County Council).

  ' I have had forty-five years' experience of the Duke

as a proprietor, and a more kindly, straightforward,

Ihonourable nobleman no tenant could sit under. In

that time also have had a great deal of business of a
public nature that led me to be mixed up with a great
many other proprietors in this district, and for the
weal of the general public and his tenantry the late
Duke was head and shoulders above the others.

IPeace be to his ashes ! As a tenant for such a long

time of his Grace's, have had every reason to respect
and admire him, and in my opinion he has not left his
equal, as a man, in every capacity of life, in Great
Britain to-day.'

588  APPEECIATIONS  [CHAP. XL VIII

   The Senatus Academicus and the General Council of
the University of St. Andrews, of which the Duke
had been Chancellor for forty-eight years, sent the
following expressions of the admiration and esteem in
which he was held in that ancient Scottish University :

   ' The Senatus Academicus avail themselves of the
opportunity of this, the first Ordinary Meeting after
the death of His Grace the Duke of Argyll, Chancellor
of the University, to express and place on record their
sense of the great loss which the University has sus
tained by that sad event. For almost half a century
the University has been honoured by having as its
official head one of the most eminent Scotsmen of his
time, one who employed the great position to which he
was born that he might render signal service to his
Sovereign and fellow-countrymen, and might further
by his influence every cause which seemed to him
just and good. By his gifts as an orator, by his
literary and scientific works, full of profound thought,
patient investigation, and earnest eloquence, and by
his services as a statesman, he added lustre to an ancient
and historic name. The Senatus recognise with grati
tude the deep interest which he took in the welfare
of the University, evinced not least in the fact that
several of his own sons were enrolled among its alumni,
and in his readiness to give the aid of his counsel and

active effort whenever occasion demanded.'

      From the General Council of the University of
                                   St. Andrews.

   ' That this Council desires to record its regret at the
loss sustained by the University in the death of its
Chancellor, the late Duke of Argyll, who, as a states
man of the first rank, one of the most polished orators
of his time, and an eminent man of science, presided
over the University with great dignity for the long
period of forty-eight years.'

1900]  CHUECH OF SCOTLAND                                        589

   From the Church in all parts of Scotland came touch
ing expressions of grief for the irreparable loss of one
who, like his ancestors, had all his life been her defender

and supporter. Space only permits of two Minutes from
the presbyteries being included ; these have been

selected as giving the most complete record of the
Duke's services to the Church of Scotland.

       From the Presbytery of Kintyre.

' The members of the Presbytery resolved to record,
as they hereby do rceord, their keen regret at the death
of the Duke of Argyll, and their deep sense of the loss
thereby sustained by the country.
   ' They recall with gratitude to Almighty God the un

wearied devotion with which, in sunshine and in storm,
he gave to the service of the State and of the Church
the resources of a mind the brilliancy of whose powers
pla'cTehdehyimhoalmd oningstsptehceiagl reraetmeestmmbreanncoef  his generation.
                                                                  the readiness
with which, true to the traditions of his family, he
championed the cause of the Church of Scotland in the
day of her adversity ; and they will never let out of
memory the faithfulness with which, all through a busy
life, he defended her against her enemies, and, at the
expense of disagreement with political associates,
sought to make her as efficient as possible an instru
ment in advancing the kingdom of heaven within this
realm, thus evincing alike his piety and his patriotism.'

              From the Presbytery of Dumbarton.

  ' It was moved, seconded, and unanimously agreed

to place on record the sincere regret of the Presbytery
at the death of George Douglas Campbell, eighth Duke
of Argyll, and its admiration of the many Christian
graces and devotion to duty which characterized his
life. The late Duke throughout his long life was ever

590  APPRECIATIONS     [chap. xLvin

a steadfast friend and loyal son of the Church of Scot
land, and by his many services he increased the debt of
gratitude which the Church owes to the House of
Argyll. The Presbytery recalls with gratitude his
assiduous efforts in helping to carry through Parlia
ment the Patronage Abolition Act of 1874, his generous
refusal to claim any compensation from the parishes
of which he was the patron, and his recent magnificent
gift to the Church of Iona Cathedral. A trusted
adviser of his Sovereign, a statesman who for fifty
years had the good of his country always at heart, a
man of unique parts in literature and science, the
Presbytery recalls with thankfulness to Almighty God
that the late Duke used his exalted position and con
secrated his great talents to the cause of truth, justice,

and righteousness.'

   From the many societies with which the Duke
was connected, tributes were received, from which a

few extracts are quoted.

     From the Elder Brethren of Trinity House.
I' Madam,

      ' have it in command from the Elder Brethren
of the Trinity House to convey to you the expression
of the deep sorrow with which at their Board yesterday
they heard of the death of your illustrious husband,
who for many years past, as one of the most honoured
members of this Corporation, afforded it his counte
nance and support.
   ' The Elder Brethren, in venturing to express to
your Grace their keen appreciation and esteem of the
high character of one who did honour to this Corpora
tion, desire me also to convey to you their sincere
sympathy with you in your affliction, and their earnest
hope that the Almighty may be pleased to comfort you
in your great sorrow.
                       ' (Signed) Chas. A. Kent.'

1900J PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS                        591

From the Royal Humane Society, of which the Duke
resigned the Office  Ho.fR.PHre.sidtheentDuinke  1899, when he
was succeeded by
Prince of Wales).                                 of York {now

I' have the honour to express to your Grace the
deep regret of the members of the Royal Humane
Society at the death of His Grace the Duke of Argyll,
K.G., K.T., who for so many years filled the office of
President of this Society, and to assure you of their

deep^sympathy.       ' George,
                            ' President.'

                    From the Geological Society.

   ' That the Council desires to place on record their
deep sense of the loss which both science and literature
have sustained in the death of the Duke of Argyll,
who was the oldest surviving past President of the

Geological Society.'

      From the Royal National Lifeboat Institution.

  I' Madam,
          ' am directed by the Committee of Manage
ment of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution to
tender your Grace their respectful and deep sympathy
in the great sorrow which has befallen you and your
family in the death of the Duke of Argyll. His Grace
had been a Vice-President of this Institution for the
long period of thirty-five years, during which time he
had on several occasions shown the great interest which

Ihe took in the lifeboat cause.
   ' am to express the earnest hope and prayer of the
committee that He who is the God of the widow and
of all comfort may support and solace you in this your

sore time of need an'd(Sgigrineef.d) Charles Dibdin,

                                                                      ' Secretary.'

592                      APPRECIATIONS            [chap. XI.VI II

      From the Scottish Society of Literature and Art.

   '  You' Ir  Grace,
               am instructed
                              by  this  Society,  of which your
late noble husband was for many years one of the
patrons, to express our high regard for his character,
our great regret at his death, and our deep sympathy
with your Grace in the irreparable loss you have

sustained.

   ' During his long lifetime your husband served his
generation well and faithfully, and especially endeared
himself to Scotsmen. His gifts were many, and he used
them wisely. As the head of a historic house, the
chief of a highland clan, a counsellor in affairs of State,
and a man of learning and letters, his name must find
                         the great ones of the century.
a  p' laWceithamdeoenpg
                         respect and sy' mGepoa.thMy,iddleton,
                                                  ' Secretary J*

      From the Highland Society of London.
   ' May it please Your Grace,

          ' We are desired by the directors and members
of the Highland Society of London to express to your
Grace the profound regret with which they received the
sad intelligence of the death of the Duke of Argyll.
He has been a            member for nearly fifty years,  Itanmd ainy
1853 occupied            the position of President.
safely be said that no member ever enjoyed the con
fidence and respect of the Society in a greater measure
than he did. His rare mental attainments and culture,
his wide scientific knowledge, his high accomplish
ments as a statesman and as an orator, his keen
patriotism and tender kindness of heart, have always
through his long and honourable career secured him the
admiration and devotion of every member of the
Society ; and they, as fellow-Highlanders, rejoiced
that his own native talent and personality had gained
him a most prominent position amongst the distin
guished men of his time.'

1900]    SCOTTISH GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY                                   593

   The Scottish Geographical Society paid a tribute
to the Duke, who had been President of the Society

for several years, in an article, from which the following
extracts are taken :

' When on April 24 last the Duke of Argyll died,
the Nestor of British politics, perhaps also of British
science, passed away. Born in 1823, he took his place
in public life very early, having when only nineteen
setxaprrtelessdedScionttaishpaemcpchlelesitasteicnatlitlecdirc"lesA  by the views
                                                                     Letter to the
Peers from a Peer's Son."

  ' A witty Scottish nobleman is alleged to have re
marked, when search was being made for a biographer

of the late Mr. Gladstone, that it would require a joint-
stock company to write Mr. Gladstone's Life. The
same remark applies to the late Duke of Argyll. There
was no field of human thought whioh he did not enter,
no region of science which he did not explore ; there
was nothing in Nature which did not interest him,
and there were few subjects upon which he could not

*****discourse.
   ' As a field geologist, the Duke achieved consider
able celebrity by his interesting discovery in 1851 of
several bands of tertiary strata, containing leaves of
dicotyledonous plants, in the sea-cliffs forming the
headland of Ardtun, on the west coast of Mull. These
leaf-beds were covered by a sheet of basalt, and the
Duke's discovery was declared by Sir Charles Lyell to
raise the question whether the basalt of Antrim in
Ireland and the famous Giant's Causeway may not be

*****of the same age as that of Mull.
' Not only did the late Duke sail constantly in his
yWaecshtet ranndHiegxhpllaonredst--henmotoostnluynwfraesqueevnetreydfesahtuorreesoof fththaet
wild coast familiar to his eye or chronicled in his
vol. n.
                                                                     38

594                 APPRECIATIONS  [chap. XLvni

sketch-book, but also he took a deep interest in several
          essential to a    --thaobroovueghall,knaonwolerndgiteholoogf isgte--o
sciences   As a naturalist
graphy.
as a geologist, as a meteorologist, and as an agricul
turist, he held high rank, breaking even a lance with
Charles Darwin on the subject of natural selection,
ianndLyhealvl'singclhaisssioc,bje"cPtiroinnsciptolesDaorfwGine'solothgeyo."ry enshrined

          **** *

' Scotland will miss the intellectual searchlight which
streamed from Inveraray Castle, where every leader
of science has been a welcome guest during the past
hupaolfn-ceenvteurryy,suabnjedctf.romThwerheen"cetheissMueadc-Coariigleinina-lMovriew"*s
lived in true Highland dignity and state, but not in
luxury or idleness, for every day of his long and useful
life was spent in the study of Nature and in the cultiva
tion of his mind.'

   * 'Son of the Great Colin.' Sometimes erroneously written
Mac-Callum-Mor, ' Son of the Great Malcolm.'1

                    APPENDIX

LIST OF PUBLISHED WORKS, PAMPHLETS, LETTERS, ETC.
                        BY THE DUKE OF ARGYLL

Letter to the Peers from a Peer's Son on the Duty and Necessity of
       Immediate Legislative Interposition on Behalf of the Church of
       Scotland as determined by Considerations of Constitutional Law.
      (Anon.) Edinburgh : William Whyte and Co., 1842.

A Letter to the Rev. Thomas Chalmers, D.D., on the Present Position
      of Church Affairs in Scotland, and the Causes which have led to It.
      Edinburgh : William Whyte and Co., 1842.

Church of Scotland. Letter from the Marquis of Lome -- i.e., G. D. C.
       Glasgow (?), 1843. Extracted from the ' Glasgow Herald.'

Presbytery Examined. An essay, critical and historical, on the
       ecclesiastical history of Scotland since the Reformation. London :
       Edward Moxon, 1848.

Correspondence between the Duke of Argyll and the Rev. Andrew
      Gray, Perth, in reference to His Grace's essay, entitled 'Pres
      bytery Examined.' Edinburgh : John Johnstone, 1849.

Correspondence between the Duke of Argyll and the Right Rev. W. J.

       Trower. Glasgow, 1849.
On a Fossiliferous Deposit underlying Basalt in the Island of Mull.

       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1850, vol. ii., pp. 70, 71.
Speech of the Duke of Argyll on the Second Reading of the Ecclesi

      astical Titles Bill in the House of Lords, July 21, 1851. London :

       Edward Moxon, 1851.

The Twofold Protest. A letter from the Duke of Argyll to the

       Bishop of Oxford. London : Edward Moxon, 1851.

The Twofold Protest. A letter from the Duke of Argyll to the

       Bishop of Oxford in reference to a protest by the latter and his
       clergy against the Pope's pretensions to divide England into
       certain new dioceses. London, 1851.
On Tertiary Leaf-Beds in the Isle of Mull. Geol. Soc. Journ., 1851,
       vol vii., pp. 89-103.
Inaugural Address delivered by the Duke of Argyll on his installation
       as Chancellor of the University of St. Andrews, March 25, 1852.
       Edinburgh, 1852.

                                                595 38--2

596 APPENDIX

On the Granitic District of Inveraray, Argyllshire. Geog. Soc. Journ.,

       1853, vol. ix., pp. 260-366.
Inaugural Address delivered by His Grace the Duke of Argyll on his

      installation as Lord Rector of the University of Glasgow. London,

        1855.

On a Roche Moutonnee on the Summit of the Range of Hills separating
Loch Fyne and Loch Awe. Edin. Roy. Soc. Proceed., 1857,
       vol. iii., pp. 459-462.
Speech of the Duke of Argyll on the Motion of Lord Panmure for a

      Vote of Thanks to the Civil Service, Army, and Navy in India,
in the House of Lords on Monday, February 8, 1858. Extracted
from Hansard's 'Parliamentary Debates,' vol. cxlviii. London:
Edward Moxon, 1858.

Geology : its Past and Present. Being a lecture delivered to the
      members of the Glasgow Athenffium, January 13, 1859. Glasgow
       and London, 1859.

Speech of the Duke of Argyll on the Second Reading of the Bill for
the Repeal of the Paper Duties, May 21, 1860. London :
James Ridgway, 1860.
Speech of the Duke of Argyll on the Second Reading of the European
      Forces (India) Bill, August 10, 1860. London : James Ridgway,

        1860.
Flint Drift and Human Remains.
                                Canadian Naturalist, 1861,
vol. vi., pp. 190-199; Edin. New Phil. Journ., 1861, vol. xiii.,

pp. 145-147.
Opening Address delivered before the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
      December 5, 1864, on Law in Organic Life. 1864. Edin. Roy.
        Soc. Proceed., 1866, vol. v., pp. 264-293.
India under Dalhousie and Canning. From             the ' Edinburgh  Review '

of January and April, 1863. London : Longman, Green, and

       Longman, 1865.
National Committee of British Freed-Man's Aid Societies. Speech of

      the Duke of Argyll at a meeting held at the Westminster Palace
Hotel, May 17, 1865. London, 1865.
The Reign of Law. 1866. London : Strahan and Co., 1867 ; fifth
       edition, 1870.

On the Trap and Granite in the Island of Mull. Geol. Mag., 1867,
vol. iv., p. 553.
On the Granites and other Rocks of Ben More. Brit. Assoc. Report,
1867, vol. xxxvii., p. 55.
On a Post-Tertiary Lignite or Peat Bed in the District of Kintyre,
Argyllshire. Geol. Soc. Quart. Journ-, 1867, vol. xxiii., pp. 196,
197 ; Phil. Mag., 1867, vol. xxxiv., pp. 67, 68.
                            Argyllshire in Connection with its
Geological Structure. Geol. Soc. Quart. Journ., 1868, vol. xxiv.,
pp. 255-273; Phil. Mag., 1868, vol. xxxv., pp. 315, 316.
Primeval Man.      An  eSxiramJ.inaLtuiobnboocfksomupeonrece' nTthespeEcaurlalytionCsoncdoitniotanineodf
       in a paper  by

                     APPENDIX                                                          597

Mankind,' and in a lecture by Archbishop Whately on 'The
       Origin of Civilization.' London, 1869.
On Mr. Wallace's Theory of Birds' Nests. Journal of Travel, 1869,

        vol. pp. 276-287.

Iona. Reprinted from 'Good Words,' with illustrations. London,
            i.,
1870.                                             9,

                                                                            2,
On Glaciation, being the Annual Address to the Fellows of the Society.
       Geol. Soc. Quart. Journ., 1873, vol. xxix., pp. 51-78.
On Six Lake Basins in Argyllshire. Geol. Soc. Quart. Journ., 1873,

       vol. xxix., pp. 508-511.
                                      of the                                  Church
Speeches    on  the  Second Reading   June                                      1874,  aPnadtroEnaargleof(SCcoamtlapnedr-)
            in  the  House of Lords,
      Bill
down's Amendment, June 1874, placing the election of ministers
       in the hands of the ratepayers. London, 1874.
Address before the Geological Society of London, 1874. Geol. Soc.

      Quart. Journ., 1874, vol. xxx., pp. 34-69.
Speech of the Duke of Argyll in the House of Lords, April 15, 1875,

      on the Second Reading of the Agricultural Tenancies Bill.
London, 1875.

The Eastern Question. Speech of the Duke of Argyll on the Conduct
       of the Foreign Office during the Insurrection in Crete in 1867.

       Glasgow, 1876.
What the Turks are, and how We have been Helping Them. Speech,

      September 19, 1876. With a preface. Second edition. Glasgow,

1876.

The Present State of the Evidence bearing upon the Question of the
      Antiquity of Man, with Remarks by the Duke of Argyll.
By Thomas Hughes. 1879.
The Eastern Question from the Treaty of Paris, 1856, to the Treaty
of Berlin, 1878, and to the Second Afghan War.                                         vols. London
                :
                           :

                                  S.
                                                                                                 2

                                                                                                                               : 1,
       and Edinburgh, 1879.
The Afghan Question, from 1841 to 1878. Reprinted from 'The
       Eastern Question.' London and Edinburgh, 1879.
The Result of Four Years' Foreign Policy. Speech on May 16, 1879.

      Pp. 24. London: Liberal Central Association, 1879.

The Bessborough Commission. Speech in the House of Lords, July

       1881. London P. King, 1881.
Continuity and Catastrophe in Geology. An address, etc. Pp. 32.

       Edinburgh D. Douglas, 1883.
Crofts and Farms in the Hebrides. Being an account of the manage

       ment of an island estate for 130 years. Pp. 83. Edinburgh
       D. Douglas, 1883.

The Prophet of San Francisco (Henry George). A criticism on his
       advocacy of the nationalization of land. Reprinted from the 'Nine
       teenth Century.' Pp. 22. London: Kegan Paul and Co., 1884.
The Unity of Nature. London: Strahan, 1884.
The Irish Land Act, 1881. Speech delivered in the House of Lords.
      June 16, 1884. London: E. Stanford, 1884.

598 APPENDIX

Three Acres and a Cow, with Appendix by the Duke of Argyll.
      By F. Impey.
                      1886.  It  Is.  2 vols.  Edinburgh : David Douglas,
Scotland as It Was  and as

        1887.

The New British Constitution and its Master Builders. 1887. Edin

       burgh : D. Douglas, 1888.
What is Truth ? An address. Pp. 143. Edinburgh : D. Douglas,

        1889.

Some Words of Warning to the Presbyterians of Scotland. Edin
     burgh: D. Douglas,
The  Highland Nurse.      1890.       London : Railway and General Auto

                         A tale.

       matic Library, 1892.
Irish Nationalism : an Appeal to History. London : John Murray,

     1893.
The Unseen Foundations of Society. An examination of the fallacies

     and failures of economic science due to neglected elements.
     London : John Murray, 1893.
The Burdens of Belief, and other Poems. London : John Murray,

     1894.

Our Responsibilities for Turkey. Facts and memories of forty years.
     London, 1896.
The Philosophy of Belief; or, Law in Christian Theology. London :
      John Murray, 1896.
Organic Evolution Cross-examined ; or, Some Suggestions on the Great
      Secret of Biology. London : John Murray, 1898.
What is Science? (A lecture.) Edinburgh : D. Douglas, 1898.

Address to British Association for Advancement of Science. N.D.

                         ARTICLES IN MAGAZINES

The New Irish Land Bill. Nineteenth Century, 1881, vol. ix.
On the Economic Condition of Highlands of Scotland. Nineteenth

       Century, 1883, vol. xiii.
The Prophet of San Francisco. Nineteenth Century, 1884, vol. xv.

A Corrected Picture of the Highlands. Nineteenth Century, 1884,

       vol. xvi., pp. 681-701.
Capital and the Improvement of Land. Nineteenth Century, 1885,

       vol. xviii., pp. 1003-1010.
Professor Huxley and Canon Liddon. Nineteenth Century, 1887, vol.

       xxi., pp. 321-339.

A Great Lesson. Nineteenth Century, 1887, vol. xxii., pp. 293-309.

An Olive Branch from America, by R. Pearsall Smith, with Comments
       by the Duke of Argyll, etc. Nineteenth Century, 1887, vol. xxii.,

         pp. 601-624.

The Power of Loose Analogies. Nineteenth Century, 1887, vol. xxii.,

         pp. 745-765.

                          APPENDIX                                            599

A Great Confession. Nineteenth Century, 1888, vol. xxiii., pp. 142-

160.

Isolation, or, Survival of the Unfittest. Nineteenth Century, 1889,
vol. xxv., pp. 12-34.
The Story of a Conspirator. Nineteenth Century, 1890, vol. xxvii.,

        pp. 733-755 and 1001-1025.
Professor Huxley on the Warpath. Nineteenth Century, 1891, vol.
xxix., pp. 1-33.
Professor Huxley and Duke of Argyll. Nineteenth Century, 1891,
vol. xxix., pp. 685-689.
The Glacial Theory. Nineteenth Century, 1894, vol. xxxv., pp. 337-

342.

Christian Socialism. Nineteenth Century, 1894, vol. xxxvi., pp. 690-

707.

Lord Bacon versus Professor Huxley. Nineteenth Century, 1894, vol.
xxxvi., pp. 959-969.
On the Flight of Birds. (Letters.)  J.NaGtuutrher,ievola. nidx.,
The Reign of Law. (Letters by                                        pp. 381  and 403.
                                                                    Duke of
                                                                               Argyll.)
Nature, 1874, vol. x., pp. 147-263.
On the Physical Structure of the Highlands in Connection with their
Geological Structure. (British Association address, Section C,
Geology.) Nature, vol. xiv., p. 435.
Holly Berries and Rare Birds. (Letter.) Nature, vol. xv., p. 273.
Hibernation of Birds.             Nature, vol. xv., p. 527.
                       (Letter.)  Nature, vol. xix., p. 554.
A Carnivorous Goose.   (Letter.)

Ice Crystals. (Letters.) Nature, vol. xix., pp. 274 and 368.
The Lesser Woodpecker.    (Letter.) Nature,               1880, vol. xxii., p. 95.
                        Matter. (Letter.)                 Nature, 1880, vol. xxii.,
A Fourth State of the

        p. 168.

A Fragment of Primeval Europe. (Letter.) Nature, 1880, vol. xxii.,
        p. 407.
Struggle of Parts in the Organism.   (Letter.)                      Nature, vol. xxiv.,
                                     (Letter.)                      Nature, 1881, vol.
        p. 581.
Struggle of Parts in the Organism.

       xxv., p. 6.
Mimicry in Moths. (Letter.) Nature, vol. xxvii., p. 125.
Transit of Venus. (Letter.) Nature, vol. xxvii., p. 156.
Hovering of Birds.              --NParetuhriset,orvicol.   xxvii.,  pp. 312 and 387.
Metamorphic Origin  (Letters.)                            Giants.    (Letter.) Nature,
                    of Granite

       vol. xxvii., p. 578.       Criticism by G. J. Romanes, pp. 474-
The Unity of Nature. (Book.)
476 ; letter by Duke of Argyll. Nature, 1884, vol. xxix., p. 524.
Diffusion of Species. (Letter.) Nature, vol. xxx., p. 462.
How Thought Presents Itself among the Phenomena of Nature.
       (Short letter.) Nature, vol. xxxi., p. 433.
Iona. (Short letter.) Nature, 1885, vol. xxxii., p. 413.
Organic Evolution. (Short letter.) Nature, vol. xxxiv., p. 335.
Thoughts without Words. (Short letter.) Nature, vol. xxvi., p. 52.

600 APPENDIX

The Scenery of Scotland. (Short letter.) Nature, vol. xxxvi.,
     p. 603.
On Darwin's Theory. (Criticism.)      Nature, 1887, vol. xxxvii., p. 25.
Conspiracy of Silence. (Letters.)     Nature, 1887, vol. xxxvii., pp. 53,

        246, 293.       1887,  vol. xxxvii.,  p.  317,  Professor  J. W.  Judd.
Letters. Nature,
     p. 342, Professor T. H. Huxley.
Functionless Organs. (Letters.) Nature, vol. xxxviii., pp. 341, 411.
Prophetic Germs. (Letters.) Nature, vol. xxxviii., pp. 564, 615.
Lob Worms. Nature, vol. xxxix., p. 300.
Supposed Fossils from the Southern Highlands. Nature, vol. xxxix.,

     pp. 300, 317.
An Unusual Geological Sequence. (Letter.) Nature, vol. xl.,               p. 642.
Acquired Characters and Congenital Variation. (Letters.)                  Nature,

     1889, vol. xli., pp. 173, 294, 366.
                                   Nature, vol. xliii., p. 8.
Araucaria Cones. (Short letter.)   (Short letter.) Nature, vol. xliii.,
Darwin on the Unity of Race.

        p. 415.

The Green Sandpiper. (Short letter.) Nature, vol. xliv., p. 274.
Glacier Action. (Short letter.) Nature, vol. xlvii., p. 389.
Origin of Lake Basins. (Letter.) Nature, vol. xlvii., p. 485.
Glaciation of Glenaray and Glenshira. (Short note on paper read
     before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, April 1, 1895). Nature,
     vol. lii., p. 70.
The  Great Submergence.           (Letter.) Nature, 1897,  vol. lvi., p. 173.
The  Duke of Argyll and        and Mr. Herbert Spencer.    (Letter.) Nature,

     vol. lix., p. 246.
Professor Meldola and Herbert Spencer as Critics. (Letter by Duke
     of Argyll.)    Nature, vol.  lix., p.    317.
The  Two Spheres    -- Are there  Twot         Contemporary  Review,  1872-73,

     vol. xxi., pp. 464-473.
On Animal Instinct in its Relation to the Mind of Man. Contempo

       rary Review, 1875, vol. xxvi., pp. 352-376.
Agricultural Holdings Act of 1875. Contemporary Review, 1876, vol.
     xxvii., pp. 497-521.
Morality in Politics. Contemporary Review, 1877, vol. xxx., pp. 319-

     333.

Disestablishment.       Contemporary Review, 1877-78, vol. xxxi., pp. 217-

     255.

Ministerial Misstatements on Afghan Question. Contemporary Review,
       1880, vol. xxxvii., pp. 492-512.

A Few Weeks upon the Continent. Contemporary Review, 1880, vol.
     xxxviii., pp. 1-24.
Agricultural Depression. Contemporary Review, 1882, vol. xli.,

        pp. 177-194, 381-403.

The Unity of Nature. Contemporary Review, 1880, vol. xxxviii..
     pp. 353-371, 521-532, 699-715, 867-883; 1881, vol. xxxix., pp. 1-

     14, 186-210, 333-364, 491-505, 665-681, 843-855.

                                APPENDIX          601

Land Reformers. Contemporary Review, 1885, vol. xlviii., pp. 470-

479.

The Identity of Thought and Language. Contemporary Review, 1888,
       vol. liv., pp. 806-825.
                                Contemporary Review, 1889, vol. lv.,
A Reply to Our Appellant.

pp. 1-23.
The Betterment Tax. Contemporary Review, 1890, vol. lvii., pp. 911-

920.

Wolfe Tone. (A note.) Contemporary Review, 1891, vol. lix.,
pp. 306-308.
The House of Lords and Betterment. Contemporary Review, 1894,
       vol. lxv., pp. 483-495.
                                                  Fortnightly
A Moral Land Law. (A reply to A. Williams, M.P.)

       Review, 1887, vol. xli., pp. 764-784.


                                     INDEX

Abdoolah Jan, ii. 332                              124 ; his letters to the Duke, i. 371,
Abdul-Medjid, Sultan of Turkey,                    531, ii. 108, 129; the Duke's letters

i. 588                                             to, i. 371, 530, ii. 110, 119, 122-
Abdurrahman, Amir of Afghanistan,
                                                       124, 132, 137
ii. 333
Abercorn, Duke of, ii. 358                         Abolition of slave-trade, ii. 54 ; Pitt's
                                                      speech for, ii. 55
Aberdeen, George, fourth Earl of, on               Abstraction, the Duke's power of,
   Chatham, i. 8 ; his Patronage Bill,
i. 169, 176; v. seventh Duke of                        i. 307
Argyll's Patronage Bill, i. 178-180 ;              Acropolis, Athens, i. 247, 248
                                                   Acton, Lord, ii. 456
                                                   Adams, Charles Francis, American
at Taymouth, i. 186 ; his support
of Peel, i. 273 ; the Duke's friend                Minister, ii. 180, 201, 203, 207, 211 ;
ship with and opinion of, i. 302,
                ; on Granville,                    an arbiter in the Alabama affair,
               possible ' Prime
3' 6o4n-l3y66                    i.  348 ; the     ii. 213
                                     Minister,
                                                   Addison, i. 358

i. 363; and Russell, i. 365, 463,                  Adelaide, Queen, i. 30

464, 508-510 ; his Coalition Minis                 Adrianople, ii. 328
                                                   Afghanistan, war with, ii. 329 ;
try, i. 369-388 ; appoints the Duke
Lord Privy Seal, i. 371-390; his                   Russian Mission to, ii. 329, 330 ;
difficulties, i. 373 ; defends com                 British Mission to, ii. 331, 332

position of his Cabinet, i. 389 ;                  Agassiz, Louis, i. 156, 157, 350, 578
on Sir R. Inglis, i. 416 ; India Bill,             Agoni, fish in Como Lake, i. 217
i. 420, 432; and Gladstone's in                    Agricultural Commission, Duke of

come-tax proposals, i. 426-428 ; on                   Richmond's, ii. 367

Emperor Nicholas, i. 437 ; and                     Alabama affair, the, ii. 200-213
Palmerston, i. 441, 527, 529, 571,                 Aland Islands, i. 488, 597 ; ii. 21
                                                   Alban Hills, Rome, i. 194, 196
ii. 91 ; France, i. 443 ; his Crimean
War policy, i. 456-460 ; and Bright,
i. 469; Russell's Reform Bill,                     Albano, i. 195

i/472, 473 ; accused of Austrian                   Albert, Prince Consort, i. 184 ; his
                                                      visit to Inverarav, i. 295-297 ;
                                                   Exhibition of 1851,'i. 319, 320, 340,
sympathies, i. 496 ; the Queen re                  341 ; and Peel, i. 323 ; unjustifiable
fuses to accept his resignation,
i. 517, 518 ; fall of    ih. is52M3in; is'trtyh,e  feeling v., i. 348 ; meetings of the
                         about, i. 528 ;           Privy Council, i. 416 ; his admir
i. 522 ; retrospect,  '                            able suggestions during Crimean
prevalent nonsense                                 War, i. 501 , 506 ; his views on the
and Layard, i. 535 ; his confidence                Aberdeen Cabinet crisis, i. 520,
in Clarendon, i. 538 ; the Duke's
allusions to, in inaugural address,
                                                   521 ; reception of French Emperor
                                                   and Empress, i. 547 ; on French
Glasgow University, i. 545 ; the                   diplomacy, i. 555 ; on Polish ques
Duke's altered footing with, i. 571 ;
on Russia's acceptance of ultima                   tion, i. 583, 584 ; and the peace pro
tum, ii. 9 ; and Gladstone, ii. 51,                         wi.ith599co;pyproefse'nUtendclebyToMmr'ss.
53 ; the Duke on Reform, ii. 122-                  posals,
                                                   Stowe

604 INDEX

Cabin,' ii. 56; death of, ii. 183; Argyll, Archibald, third Duke of
the Duke's last interview with, and          (Earl of May), i. 4, 5, 9, 18, 21,
letters from, ii. 184
                                             24
Alexander, Emperor of Russia, Argyll, Archibald, ninth Earl of,
i. 377, 439                                  beheaded 1685, i. 3, 16, 23
                                             Argyll Commission on Education in
Alice, Princess, ii. 186
Allied Sovereigns in Paris, i. 262
Alma, Battle of the, i. 487, 603,            Scotland, ii. 301

   504                                       Argyll, Duchess of (Mrs. Anson, nee
                                                Claughton), ii. 382 ; death of, ii.

Alsace and Lorraine ceded to Ger- j 468
many, ii. 294, 295                           Argyll, Elizabeth, Duchess of (nee
Amalfi, i. 198                               Gunning), i. 12-15, 236; Cotes'

America, England's dispute with,             portrait of, i. 13
Foreign Enlistment Act, i. 591,              Argyll, Elizabeth,   Duchess of (nee
ii. 48, 51 ; the Nicaraguan ques          j     Leveson-Gower),  i. 185, 263 ; death

tion, ii. 47, 48 ; negro slavery and         of, ii. 343

abolitionism in, ii. 54, 55 ; the Trent Argyll estates, the Duke's expendi
affair, ii. 178-182; the Alabama             ture on, ii. 551
claims, ii. 200-213                       j Argyll, George Douglas, eighth Duke
visit to, ii. 344         ;  the  Duke's

American Civil War, ii. 169-183, 188- 1823. Birth, i. 65 ; early impressions,
198 ; England's neutrality, ii. 171,
190 ; the Duke's speech at Inver-                57
aray on, ii. 174 ; its effect on British
industries, ii. 189 ; the Duke's             1828-1829. Memories of Reform agi
                                                      tation, i. 67 ; study of birds,

                                                 70, 115
views, ii. 190-196 ; the ironclad 1830-1838. Recollections of Church
question, ii. 203-207                            movement in Scotland, i. 189 ;
American Stamp Act, i. 394                       reflections on life and death,
Amiens, Peace of, i. 33, 36
                                                 93 ; speculative thought, 95 ;
Anaesthetics discovered by Sir James j           visit to Leamington, 97 ; first
   Simpson, i. 324
Andaman Islands, ii. 275                         impressions of England, 99 ;
Anderson, Dr., i. 122                            return to Ardencaple in 1836,
                                                 105 ; death of elder brother,

Anglesey, Marquis of (Lord Paget),               106 ; religion and theology,
   i. 261, 367, 368                              109 ; second visit to Leaming

Anglicanism, i. 174, 175                         ton in 1837, 111 ; dangerous
Animal mechanics, i. 76, 77                      illness, 111 ; visit to Lord Ross-

Anne, Queen, i. 4                                more, 111 ; first sight of Queen
Anson, Colonel, V.C., ii. 383                    Victoria, 112 ; return to Arden
Anson, Mrs. (afterwards Duchess of                    caple, 113 ; study of bird life,
   Argyll), ii. 382                                    ii. 561
                                             1839. Interest in chemistry, i. 117 ;
' Anthropomorphism in Theology,' the
   Duke's lecture on, ii. 487                    political studies, 122 ; death
Anti-Corn Law League, i. 159                     of his uncle, 123 ; Mr. How-

Anti-slavery cause, the Duke and,                son, his tutor, 125 ; impressions
   ii. 190-195
                                                 of liturgies, 127 ; life in Kin-
Antiquity of man, the Duke's dis                 tyre, 131 ; visit to Tiree, 133 ;
  cussion with Max Miiller on, ii. 539-          the Skerryvore Lighthouse,
541 141 ; lessons in oil-painting,
Aquatic larvae, i. 81
                                                 181
Arbutus on Monte St. Angelo, i. 198 1840. Visit to London, i. 149; to
Ardencaple, i. 46-62, 113 ; rookery at, I        the House of Commons, 149 ;
i. 72
Ardtun leaf-bed, discovery of, i. 350-           impressions of leading states
                                                 men, 160 ; visit to Hamilton
353 Palace, 155

                       INDEX                                         605

1841. Return to London, i. 157 ; dis        1845-1846. Sympathy with Sir R.

like of Whigs, 158; Scottish                Peel, i. 274 ; speeches heard
Church question, 164 ; his                  in House of Commons, 276,
own characteristics, 167 ; views            277 ; visit to Mull, 286 ; study
                                            of estates, 287-291 ; visit to
on English and Scottish                     Staffa, 289
Churches, 176
1842. First pamphlet on Scottish 1847. Succession to dukedom, i. 293 ;
Church  Question,  i.
of Dr.  Arnold's    '  177 ; study          cruise off west coast, 295 ;
                       History of           visit to Dunrobin, 295 ; ban
Rome,' 183 ; visit with Mr.                 quet to Lord Dalhousie, 298 ;

Howson to Campsie, 184 ;                    speech by the Duke, 299
commands the Celtic Society 1848. Takes his seat in House of
on Queen's visit to Edinburgh,              Lords, i. 301 ; first speech in
184 ; visit to Taymouth, 185 ;              House of Lords on Jewish
journey abroad, Paris, 189 ;                disabilities, 302 ; meets Louis
Lyons, 190 ; first view of Mont
Blanc, 191 ; Avignon, 192 ;                 Philippe, 304; life at Inveraray,
Genoa, 193 ; Rome, 194 ; ex                 306 ; acquires habit of literary
                                            work, 307 ; acquaintance with
cursions, 195 ; Naples, 196 ;               Americans, 411 ; Charles Sum
Vesuvius, 197 ; Psestum, 199 ;              ner, 411 ; Emerson, 412
                                            1849. Makes Mr. Gladstone's ac
Sicily, 200
1843. Birds on the Pincian Hill, i.         quaintance, i. 311 ; takes up

201 ; Florence, 202 ; Pisa, 205 ;           Mr. Ryland's case, 315 ; inter

Venice, 209 ; Lombardy, 210 ;               view with the Duke of Welling
Como and Lugano, 217 ; Lago                           ton, 316
Maggiore, 219 ; Switzerland,
221 ; return to Kintyre, 223 ;              1850. Acquaintance with Prince Al
                                            bert, i. 319 ; visit to the
visits at Stafford House, 223 ;
                                            Hebrides, 320 ; news of death
                                            of Sir R. Peel, 323 ; winter in
study of modern history and                               at Bruntsfield
philosophy, 224 ; political econ            Edinburgh
omy, 227, visit to Mull, 229 ; a            PRLirenoikdfes,s, so3Pr2r3oWfe; isalsscooqrnu,aiJn3.t2a5nGc; reeDgrwo.rityJh.,
deer-drive on Ben More, 231 ;
attends lectures in Edinburgh,

235 ; Professor Wilson and                  327 ; instances of thought-

Sir W. Hamilton, 16 ; visits                reading, 329
to Gosford and Trentham, 236 ; 1851. Return to Rosneath, i. 331 ;

voyage to Gibraltar, 238 ;                  acquaintance with foreigners
Lisbon, 241 ; Seville, 242 ;                in London, 331 ; Chevalier

Greece, 245 ; Athens, 247 ;                 Bunsen, 332 ; opening of
                                            Athenaeum in Glasgow, 337 ;
Marathon and Thermopylae,                   London and the Great Exhibi
          249 ; visit to the Constituent j
          Assembly, 250 ; Corinth, 253      J.tion, 337 ; offer of office by
1844. Malta and Naples, i. 254 ;
                                            Lord Russell, 341 ; declined,
acquaintance with Mrs. Somer-               342 ; visit to York and Castle
ville, 255 ; return through
Italy, 259 ; visit to Napoleon's            Howard, 345 ; meets Tennyson,
                                            ii. 571
battlefields in Lombardy, 259 ; 1852. Paper on fossil leaves in Mull,
return by Spliigen, 259 ;                   i. 349 ; friendship with Smith of
Waterloo, 261 ; marriage, 263 ;             Jordanhill, 350 ; elected Chan
life in London and at Ros-                  cellor of St. Andrew's, 355 ;

neath, 265 ; disadvantage of                Dunrobin, 355 ; fossils at
not being in House of Com
                                            Helmsdale, 356 ; Cromarty,
mons, 269 ; political views in              366 ; visit to Hugh Miller, 357 ;
1844, 269; meets Emperor                    visit to Lord Aberdeen at
Nicholas, 435                               Haddo, 364 ; attends funeral

606 INDEX

of Duke of Wellington, 369;                 Cabinet difficulties, 539-545 ;
visits to Trentham and Ers-                 meets the Emperor Louis
kine, 368 ; offered office of               Napoleon, 546 ; dines at
Privy Seal by Lord Aberdeen,
                                            Buckingham Palace, 555 ;
                                            letter to Lord Clarendon on
371 ; accepted, 371 ; his first             proposed treaty with Sweden,
Cabinet dinner, 374 ; descrip
tion of colleagues, 375 ; dis               564 ; President of British
cussion on income-tax, 385                  Association at Glasgow, 573 ;
                                            visit to Lord Wrottesley, 573 ;
1853. Opening of Parliament, i. 389 ;
takes house at Campden Hill,                discussion with Lyell, 579 :
                                                                 of Darwin's
391 ; attends various breakfast-            anticipation
                                            theory, 581 ; at Balmoral, 583 ;
parties, 401 ; experiences of
table-turning at Lord Macau-                letter from Palmerston, 585 ;
lay's, 405 ; breakfast with
Hallam, 407 ; friendship with               discovery of papers on Sweden,
                                            591 ; becomes Postmaster-

Professor Owen, 408 ; and                   General, 593 ; Cabinet meet
Huxley, 411 ; Sir Robert Inglis,            ings, 594 ; visit to Hawarden,
414 ; Charles Dickens, 417 ;                ii. 1 ; conversation with Glad
takes up East India Company                 stone on English Church, 2 ;
Question, 419 ; visits to Clieve-           work at Post Office, 4 ; ac
                                                                 with    Sir Rowland
den, 420 ; description of Glad              qHuilal,int5an;cean   Irish    deputation,
stone's Budget speech, 422-
434 ; visit to  LoIrredlaJn.d,Rus4s6e1ll,;  7 ; opening of Parliament, 9 ;
intimacy with                               account of Lord Lyndhurst's
                                            speech on life peerages, 15 ;
           462-466                          signing of Treaty of Paris, 24 ;
1854. Retrospect of Eastern Ques            the Duke's opinion of the

          tion, i. 335-352; Cabinet ex

periences on eve of Crimean                 treaty, 27 ; correspondence
War, 353 ; article in Edinburgh             with Gladstone, 30
Review on Eastern Question, 1856. Takes part in discussion of
473 ; Cabinet dinner at Pem                 Nicaragua Question, ii. 47 ;
                                            speech on maritime law, 50 ;
broke Lodge, 475 ; conversa                 views on the Neapolitan Ques
tion with Palmerston, 477 ;                 tion, 52 ; sympathy with anti-
intimacy with Gladstone, 479 ;              slavery movement in America,
Cabinet work, 483 ; guests at
Inveraray, 485 ; Lord Grey,                 54 ; friendship with Mrs.
485 ; visit to Hebridean estates,           Beecher Stowe, 56 ; her visit
487 ; letter to Lord Clarendon,             to Inveraray, 60 ; visit to Dun-

489 ; the Cabinet and news                  robin, 66
                                            1857. Meeting with Sir R. Bethell,
from the Crimea, 506 ; inter
view with Prince Albert, 507 ;
                                            ii. 67 ; speech on the Chinese
winter session, 511                         Question, 69 ; Cabinet meeting,
                                            70 ; General Election, 74 ;
1855. Cabinet meeting, i. 516 ; resig
nation of Lord Aberdeen and                 Cabinet meeting on Parlia
                                            mentary reform, 76 ; Ros-
his Cabinet, 517; Queen refuses             neath, 78 ; Duke undertakes
to accept it, 518 ; visit to '              Indian questions in House of
Windsor, 520 ; interview with I

the Queen, 521 ; defeat of I                Lords, 80 ; speech in answer
                                            to Lord Ellenborough, 82 ;
J.Government, 522 ; office offered I        acquaintance with Sir Colin
                                            Campbell, 85 ; at Balmoral,
by Lord Russell, 525 ; and                  86 ; visit to Lord Dalhousie,
declined, 526 ; offer from Pal- j
merston, 526 ; accepts office               88 ; Cabinet and the Bank
of Privy Seal, 530 ; acquaint
                                            crisis, 91 ; Duke's views on
ance with Layard, 534 ;
                                            reform, 94
Cabinet meetings, 539, 552 ;

                                              INDEX                              607

1858. Letters to Sir George Grey, ii.               1864. Memorandum on Schleswig-
          97 ; speech in the House of                Holstein for the Queen, ii. 216 ;
         Lords in defence of Lord                    speech in the House of Lords
                                                     on same, 219 ; speech on Lord
Canning, 99 ; views of the                           Malmesbury's vote of censure,
Government of India Bill, 102 ;                      223 ; Chairman of Royal Com
                                                     mission on Education in Scot
Duke's speech, 104, 105 ;
Orsini affair, 107 ; resignation
of Government, 108 ; Lord                            land, 301
Derby's India Bill, 111 ; cor                       1865. Correspondence on reform, ii.
respondence with Granville,                          230 ; address to Royal Society
Palmerston, 1 12 ; visit to
Carlsbad, 119 ; visit to Rossie                      of Edinburgh, 484
                                                    1866. Defeat and resignation of
Priory, 126 ; speech on open                         Government, ii. 232 ; winter in

ing of Dundee Corn Exchange,                         Rome,    233 ; publication  of
                                              Lord   ' Reign  of Law, 233
J1.26Ru; scsoerrllesopnonrdeefonrcme,  with
                                         131        1867. Correspondence with Glad

1859. Accepts office of Privy Seal in                stone on reform, ii. 235;
         Lord Palmerston's Ministry,
ii. 137 ; letters to Times on                                 speech in House of Lords, 236
Italian Question, 138 ; speech                      1868. Views on Scottish Reform Bill,
at banquet to Lord Brougham
in Edinburgh, 146 ; correspon                        ii. 239 ; speech in House of
dence on Chinese Question,                           Lords on Irish Suspensory
                                                     Bill, 243; attack of gout,

                                                     244 ; death of Duchess of

147 ; opinion of New Reform                          Sutherland, 246 ; marriage of
Bill, 151.                                           his daughter to Earl Percy,

1860. Opinion of Gladstone's Budget,                 246 ; Secretary of State for
          ii. 155 ; speech on commercial             India, 247 ; works at India
          treaty with Prance, 156 ; on               Office, 269, 270; correspon
                                                     dence with Max Miiller on
Budget, 159 ; peacemaker be                          Oriental culture, 271 ; Indian
tween Gladstone and Palmer
s' tOonri,gi1n63of;                                  railways, 272 ; on antiquity of
                     letters on Darwin's             man, 540
                     Species,' 482
1861. Views on American Civil War,                  1869. Speech on Irish Church Dis
ii. 169 ; correspondence with                                establishment, ii. 247 ; visit

Motley, 172 ; speech to tenan                        to Tennyson at Farringford,
try, 174 ; visit to Cannes and                       251 ; Indian railway policy,
Nice, 177 ; correspondence with                      273 ; land settlement, 280 ;
Gladstone on Trent affair, 179 ;                     Punjaub Tenancy Act, 280 ;
                                                     introduces Bill on Scottish
death of Prince Consort, 183 ;.                      education, 301 ; correspon
letter on Scottish education,                        dence with Gladstone on Irish

           310                                       Land Bill, 253

1862. Visit to Balmoral, ii. 185;
letter from Cobden, 188 ;
opinion of American War and                         1870. Correspondence with Gladstone
British industries, 189 ; corre                      on same, ii. 258 ; speech in
                                                     House of Lords, 266 ; honorary
spondence with Gladstone,                            degree, Oxford, 267 ; corre
                                                     spondence with Newman, 267 ;
190 ; receives honorary degree                       Indian Government construc
          at Cambridge, 198
1863. Speech at banquet to Lord                      tion, 274 ; opinions on Franco-
                                                     German War, 293
         Palmerston in Edinburgh, ii.               1871. Indian finance, ii. 274 ; Pun
         195 ; letter from Henry Ward                jaub Tenancy Act, 281 ; speech
          Beecher, 195 ; letters about               on army reform, 298

Alabama question, 203 ; speech                      1872. Indian famine, ii. 275 ; Zanzi

in House of Lords on Polish

question, 214                                        bar and Muscat affair, 277 ;

608 INDEX

       speech on Scottish education,              dence about General Gordon
                                                     and the Soudan, 389
1873.  307                                 1885. Controversy with Gladstone,
                                                  ii. 393 ; letter to the Times on
       Indian income-tax and land                 Home Rule, 411 ; speech at
       question, ii. 282 ; Indian Rent            Glasgow on Scottish Disestab
       and Revenue Bills, 284 ; Indian

1874.  famine, 288                                lishment, 450
       Defeat of Government, ii. 289 ;     1886. Correspondence with Glad
       speech in defence of Lord
       Northbrook, 290 ; speech on                stone on crime in Ireland, ii.
       Church Patronage in Scotland,              404 ; letter to the Times on
       312 ; correspondence with                  Home Rule, 415

          Gladstone on same, 313           1887. Speech in House of Lords on
1875. Correspondence with Max                     Irish Criminal Law Amend
                                                  oImtfeIn'st,S'cB4o5itll6la,n; idis.pea4es1c9hIt;  publication
          M filler on philosophy of lan                                                             Was and as
       guage, ii. 527                                                                               at Unionist
1876.  Speech in Glasgow on Bul                   banquet in Westminster Hall,
       garian atrocities, ii. 323 ; notes
       on birds, 336 ; study of raised                460

       beaches, 514                        1888. Publication of 'The New
                                                   British Constitution,' ii. 418 ;
1877.  Fire at Inveraray, ii. 341 ; cor            speech in House of Lords on
1878.  respondence with Professor                  Irish Crimes Bill, 422 ; speech
       Tyndall, 341                               at Cambridge, 46G ; opinion
       Opinion of Afghanistan, ii.                   of Darwin's discoveries, 491
       329; death of the Duchess,          1889. Speech in House of Lords
       343 ; visit to Cannes, 344
1879.  Publication of book on Eastern             against Deceased Wife's Sister
1880.  Question, ii. 322 ; speech in              Bill, ii. 462
       House of Lords on foreign           1890. Speech to students of Univer
       policy, 333 ; visit to United              sity of London, ii. 463 ; letter
       States, 344                                to H. M. Stanley on return
       Lord Privy Seal in Gladstone's             from Africa, 513
       Government, ii. 348 ; resigns,
                                           1891. Speech on crofter legislation,
       349 ; withdraws resignation,                ii. 464 ; speech at Unionist
       354 ; correspondence on Irish              meeting at Manchester, 465
       Land Act, 349 ; criticises          1892. Speech to Laymen's League in
       Gladstone's Bill, 355                      Edinburgh, ii. 455, 465
       Criticism of Gladstone's Irish      1893. Speech in House of Lords on
1881.  Land Bill, ii. 363 ; leaves the            Home Rule, ii. 428 ; speech at

          Government, 377, 459 ; speech           Unionist meeting in Glasgow,
        in House of Lords, 377 ; speech
          on report of Bess borough Com               437
          mission, 381 ; married to Mrs.
          Anson, 383 ; presented with      1894. Speeches in House of Lords on
          Mantuan Medal, 383 ; corre                Land and Local Government
         spondence about crime in Ire               Bills, ii. 469
          land, 403
1883. Writes paper on crofts and           1895. Speech on Employers' Liability,
          farms in Hebrides, ii. 389 ;            ii. 466 ; receives deputation
                                                  from Elswick Mutual Insurance

       correspondence with Professor              Company, 467 ; speech at St.
                                                  James's Hall on Armenian

       Flower on rudimentary organs,                 question, 469 ; marriage, 549
                                           1896. Correspondence with Lord Lil-
       488
       Acts as intermediary between                 ford on birds, ii. 565
                                                                Queen Victoria
1884.  Lord Salisbury and Gladstone,       1897.  Verses to     555 ; restoration                   on
       ii. 384 ; speech in favour of              Jubilee, ii.                                      of
       Franchise Bill, 386 ; correspon
                                                  hall at Inveraray, 557 ; Literary
                                                  Society at Inveraray, 558

                                  INDEX                                                             609

1900. Death of the Duke, ii. 583                      Armenian massacres, ii. 325, 469-

Writings of. See Appendix,                            480; the Duke's speech at St.
                                                      James's Hall on, ii. 471
p. 595.
Argyll, George William, sixth Duke                    Armstrong, ii.
   of (uncle), i. 27, 28, 267, 285 ; death         I  Armv Reform,    198                of purchase
                                                   !                   abolition

of, 123, 124                                          system, ii. 298-301 ; the Duke's
Argyll, John, second Duke of, created
                                                      speech on, ii. 299
                                                      Arno, valley of the, i. 204, 205
Duke of Greenwich by Queen                            Arnold, Dr. Thomas, i. 264, 302, 303,
Anne, i. 4, 5, 9, 21, 23, 24, ii. 62
Argyll, John, fifth Duke of (grand                    309; 'History of Rome,' i. 183,
father), i. 2, 4 ; his war services,                  190, 194, 195 ; death, i. 184
i. 5-7 ; Colonel of the 42nd High Arran, Island of, i. 14

landers, i. 10 ; his devotion to Articles of Church of England, i.
agriculture, i. 11, 16 ; marries
Duchess of Hamilton (Elizabeth                            90
Gunning), i. 12 ; his farm on the
                                                      Ashbourne, Lord, ii. 410
                                                      Asiatic cholera in Britain, i. 63
Inveraray estate, i. 19 ; original Athens, i. 246, 247 ; Greek Associa
founder and first President of.                       tion at, i. 250, 251
Highland Agricultural Society, i. Athole, Duchess of, ii. 186
26 ; M.P. for Glasgow and Dover, Atlantic Ocean, ground-swell of the,

   i. 27 ; his family, i. 27-31                           i. 138
Argyll, John, seventh Duke of                         Atomic theory of the constitution of
(father), i. 28 ; in the Irish Rebel                  matter, ii. 522, 523

lion, i. 31, 32 ; his air-gun, i. 31 ; Augustenburg, Duke of, ii. 216
in France, i. 33 ; description of                     Austria, her rule    'osviettringItaliidalny
Talleyrand, i. 34 ; and of Napoleon,                     vinces, i. 211 ;                              pro
                                                                                                       by,'
i. 34, 35 ; in Geneva, i. 37 ; Madame                 i. 489 ; the Four Bases, i. 493, 494 ;
de Stael and, i. 37-41 ; his adven                    alliance overtures from, i. 496 ;
ture in Switzerland, i. 41, 42 ;                      timidity of, i. 507, 510, 548 ; peace

escapes to England, i. 43 ; the                       negotiations, i. 548-557, 593-596 ;
Walcheren Expedition, i. 44 ; Ar-                     England's modifications, i. 602 ;
dencaple, i. 46-62 ; his first mar                    ultimatum accepted by Russia,
riage to Miss Campbell of Fairfield,                  ii. 8 ; war with France, ii. 138 ;
i. 33 ; his second to Miss Joan
                                                      and the Armenian Question, ii. 478
Glassell, i. 55 ; his third marriage, Auxerre Cathedral, i. 190

i. 62 ; his indifference to politics, Avignon, i. 192
i. 64, 69 ; his admiration for Duke Ayrton, Mr., ii. 117
                             i. 65, 69 ; his flag     Azof, Sea of, i. 560, 589, 597, 599
sotfafWf --ell'inHgetcohn,,  sirs ! what's come
                                                      Baa, Loch, i. 229, 230
over the Whigs noo           Vmei.ch6a7ni;csd--e      Baillie, Charles, i. 185
voted to animal
flight of birds, i. 74-76 ; hatching Balaclava, i. 498, 503-506, 514;
temperature of birds, i. 81 ; a                                       Jt.h,ei.L4ig0h8,t
highly skilled artisan, i. 84, 85 ;                      charge   of                     Brigade,  i.  499
                                                      Balfour,   A.                      ii. 447

his handiwork, i. 84-87 ; his illness, Balmoral, i. 583, ii. 85, 185

i. 123 ; succeeds to dukedom, i. Bandusian fountain, i. 196
124 ; takes his seat in House of Bank Act, suspension of, ii. 90-92
Lords, i. 149 ; large holder of lay Barra Head, i. 133
patronage in Scotland,
his Patronage Bill, i.       i. 166, 168 ;            Barrackpore,    mutinous symptoms
                             177 ; death,                at, ii. 81

i. 293                                                Basle, i. 221

Argyll, Marquis of, beheaded 1661, Bath, Lord, ii. 367
   i. 3, 64, 227, ii. 311                            Beaconsfield, Earl. See Disraeli, Ben-
Argyll Lodge, Campden Hill, i. 391,                I jamin
                                                   | Beckford, William, ' Vathek,' i. 155
    392
                                                                                              39
   VOL. II.

610 INDEX

Bedford, Captain, surveying officer, Blucher, Countess, ii. 186
                                                Bologna, i. 208
ii. 511
Bedford, Dowager-Duchess of, i. 391 Bomarsund, fortress of, i. 488, 597,
Bedford, Francis, Duke of, i. 363,
                                             I     ii. 21  ' De Motu  Animalium,'                i. 75
   ii. 75, 417                                  Borelli,
Beecher, Henry Ward, ii. 197, 203               Boswell's ' Johnson,' i. 164
Beecher, Lady (nee O'Niel), i. 53
Bellagio, i. 216                                Bourg, headland of, i. 351
                                                Bowring, Sir John, British Commis
Bellenden, Mary, i. 12, 16                      sioner in China, ii. 66, 69, 71
BeUerophon, H.M.S., i. 499                      Boyd, Rev. Dr., ii. 316
Benbuy, ii. 518                                 Boyd-Carpenter, Dr., Bishop                      of
Ben Cruachan, on Loch Awe, i. 220,              Ripon, ii. 581
   ii. 612, 518
Ben More, Mull, i. 229, 230, 287, 288,          Brambling (bird), ii. 508
351 ; a deer drive on, i. 231 ; its             Bramwell, Lord, the Duke's letter to,

                                                ii. 643
                                                Breadalbane, Lord and Lady, i. 185
recent birth, i. 232

Ben Muich-Dhui, ii. 185                         Breakfast parties, i. 401
Benson, Dr., Archbishop of Canter               Brewster, Sir David, i. 330

bury, his letter to the Duke on Bridgewater, Duke of, i 236
Armenian question, ii. 471                      Bright, John, and Lord Aberdeen,
Benthamite or philosophical Radi                i. 469 ; the Manchester School,
                                                ii. 28, 70 ; loses his seat, ii. 74 ;
cals, i. 381
Bentinck, Lord George, i. 275, 278,
                                                and Reform, ii. 124, 126, 129, 131 ;

    279                                         on Scotland and porridge, ii.                    126,
Berkeley, ' Commonplace Book,' ii.              127; v. Derby's Reform
                                                                                                 Bill,

536 ii. 133 ; the anti-slavery cause,
Berlin, Treaty of, ii. 329                      ii. 190 ; and Auberon Herbert, ii.
Bessarabia, i. 593, ii. 8, 21, 23               246 ; his illness, ii. 261 ; his speeches
Besaborough Commission, the Duke's              on Ireland, ii. 357 ; v. Home Rule,
speech on the Report of, ii. 381                ii. 425, 443; his letters to the
Bessborough, Lord, i. 261, 264                  Duke, ii. 379, 409 ; the Duke's
BethelL Richard (Lord Westbury), 1 letters to, ii. 408, 410, 457
   Attorney-General, afterwards Lord British Association, i. 154, 345 ;
Chancellor, ii. 66-69                           meeting at Glasgow, i. 572-576
                                                British Museum, Grenville Library
Bewick, i. 82, 99
Biography, the attractions of, i. 1
Birds, the flight of, i. 75, ii. 601, 563 ;     in, i. 396    Lord,   ;thDeismraeerlei'ssh'aedxowtincotf
                                                             i. 157
   adaptation of their feathers, i. 78,         Brougham,
                                                   himself,

79 ; hatching temperature of, i. 81             volcano,' i. 158, ii. 434 ; and Mrs.
Biscay, storm in the Bay of, i. 239, 240 I      Somerville, i. 255 ; and the Great
Bismarck, ii. 296-298                           Exhibition site, i. 340; the Duke's
                                                                                           ii.
Black-cap, ii. 336, 338                         LspLeDec.h   at a banquet             to,        146 ;
Black Country, the, i. 573                                  Cambridge, ii.          198
Black Sea, neutrality of, i. 593, 596, Brown, Harvie, the Duke's letter on
597, ii. 8, 27                                  ornithology to, ii. 50i-508
Black Watch, 42nd Highlanders, Brown, Miss, of Coulston (Mrs. John
i. 9, 10                                        Glassell), i. 51
                                                BBrroowwnn,ingS,irMGreso.,rg'eD, e
Blanc, Mont, i. 191, 220                                                            i. 585       ii. 186
Blantyre, Evelyn, Lady (nee Leve-                                                   Profundis,'
                                                Bruce, Frederick, British Envoy to
   son-Gower), i. 264, 286, 290, 368,

582, ii. 252                                    China, ii. 147, 148

Blantyre, Lord, i. 264, 286, 290                Bruce, Robert, i. 130
Blomfield, Dr., Bishop of London, i Brun, M. le, i. 34, 35
                                                Brunelleschi's Duomo, Florence, i.
i. 150

Blucher at Waterloo, i. 260, 335                203, 204

                                    INDEX                                                          611

Bruntsfield Links, i. 327                            Camp bell, "Adelaide, i. 59, 61
                                                     Campbell, Baillie, i. 56
Buccleuch, Duke of, i. 298

Buchanan, American President, ii. 48 Campbell, Mrs. Baillie, i. 57, 58
Bug River, i. 599                                                 Lady
Bulgarian atrocities, ii. 323, 327                   Campbell,           'CThharreleotteG,reia. t  27, 29,
Bulwer, Sir T., ii. 552                                  31, 42,  267 ;                              Sanc

                                                     tuaries of Tuscany,' i. 30
Bulwer, Lytton, i. 446                               Campbell, Lady John of {nee Clas
Bunessan, village of, i. 289, 351                       sen) (mother), i. 51-54 ; her chil
Bunsen, Baron de, Prussian Minister                     dren, i. 55 ; death and burial,

in London, i. 332-336 ; on Palmer-                   i. 59, 60
ston, i. 333 ; and Dr. Croll, i. 334 ; Campbell, Lord Chief Justice, i. 340 ;
the Duke on, ii. 119, 120, 295-297 j ii. 14, 16-18, 219 ; ' Lives of the
B' uBoulr,deiin. s23of Belief, and other Poems,'        Chancellors,' ii. 17
                                                     Campbell, Lord John                           Henry
                                                     (brother), death of, i. 106-109
i. 202, ii. 566, 574
Burgoyne, General Sir John, i. 502, Campbell, Lord Frederick, i. 27, 45,

503, 574, 600                                        301

Burke, Edmund, 122 ; and Marie Campbell, Lome, Duke of Argyll's
Antoinette,                  on George                  factor, i. 56, 68, 123, 124
Grenville,      i. 189  ;'  a shameful               Campbell, Sir Colin, i. 585-587 ; his
             i. 394 ;
                                                        brilliant campaign in Oudh, i. 587 ;
   policy to support the Turks,' i. 438                 on the Crimean War, i. 600 ;
Burns, Robert, i. 358 ; ' Lament for                    Commander-in-Chief in India, ii.
James, Earl of Glencairn,' i. 62

Burrard, General, i. 585                             83-85 ; his father, ii. 84

Bury, Lady Charlotte, i. 194        Uni              Campbells of Mamore, i. 16
Bury, Rev. -- , i. 30                                Campbeltown (now Kilchearon) Loch,
Butcher, Professor, Edinburgh
                                                        i. 131 ; organic remains at, ii. 509
   versity, ii. 466                                  Canadian Fishery Rights in Gulf of
Butler, Bishop,      ' Analogy  of Re                   St. Lawrence, ii. 212

ligion,' i. 354, 355, ii. 187                        Canmore, Malcolm, i. 130

Buzzards, ii. 805                                    Cannes, ii. 344
                                                     Canning, Lord, i. 67, 158, 275,
Byng, G., ii. 113                                       ii. 187 ; in Palmerston's Cabinet,
Byron, Lord, i. 254 ; and Rogers,                       i. 540 ; in favour of no advance to
                                                        Russia, i. 589 ; Governor-General
i.   393  ; his mother-in-law,  ii. 128 ;               of India, i. 593 ; his advice to the
'   We    start, for soul is    wanting

here,' ii. 553

                                                     Duke about Post-Office, ii. 3, 4 ;
                                                     and the Indian Mutiny, ii. 78 ; the
Cadiz, i. 242                                     I  report of his interference with the
Callander, Mr. and Mrs., of Craig-                j  religion of Indian natives, ii. 81 ;
                                                     reckless     b' --lamElleencbaosrtouognh''sClemindeinocty-
   forth and Ardkinglas, i. 197                      Canning
Calvin, i. 89

Cambaceres, M., i. 34, 35

Cambridge, Duke of, i. 600                           ment, ii. 82 ; the Duke's defence

Cambridge, the Duke's           political               of, ii. 99, 100, 269
   speech at, ii. 460                                Canton River affair, ii. 66-70

Campagna, Rome, i. 194, 195                          Capercailzie, ii. 506
                                                     Cardwell, Lord, i. 427, 539, ii. 70;
Campbell of Barbrech, Captain, i. 86                    loses his seat at Oxford, ii. 74 ;
Campbell of Islay, John P., i. 28, 188,                 Irish Secretary in Palmerston's

   255 ; the Duke's letter to, ii. 552

Campbell of Islay, Walter, i. 267                    second Administration, ii. 137 ; at
                                                     Rome, ii. 233 ; Secretary for War
Campbell of Fairfield, Miss (after                   in Gladstone's first Administra
   wards Duchess of Argyll), i. 33                   tion, ii. 247 ; his illness, ii. 261 ;
Campbell of Monzie, Mr., i. 267
Campbell of Shawfield and Islay,                     his proposal to increase amount of
   John, Sheriff of Argyllshire, i. 23, 27           military expenditure borne by
                                                                            39--2

612 INDEX

India, ii. 276 ; his Army Reform                                 Chelmsford, Lady, ii. 86
Bill, ii. 298-300 ; passed, ii. 301 ;                            Chelmsford, Lord, ii. 86, 237

the Duke's letter to, ii. 266                                    Chemistry, 117-121 and physics,
                                                                                    ; i. i.          ;

Carlingford, Lord, ii. 356                                       ii. 520
                                                                 Chesney, Colonel, Bengal Engineers,
Carlisle, Earl of, i. 264, 265, 341, 346,                           President of Cooper's Hill College,
   411 ; v. Corn Laws, i. 161 ; Emer
son's lectures, i. 413 ; joins Palmer-                           ii. 270
                                                                 Chevalier. Michel, ii. 153
ston's Cabinet, i. 540 ;                      opfre'sUenntceled  China, the Canton River affair, ii. 66-
by Mrs. Stowe with copy
Tom's Cabin,' ii. 56 ; his letter to                                70 war with, ii. 147-150, 166
                                                                          ;                                                       ;

the Duke on Gladstone's Budget                                      treaty of peace, ii. 150
speech (1860), ii. 155
Carlsbad, ii. 119, 121                                           Chloroform discovered by Sir James
Carlyle, Thomas, i. 412, 413, ii. 189,
                                                                    Simpson, 324                                63
                                                                 Cholera in Britain, Asiatic,                   ;
                                                                 Cholmondeley, Lady, 34
    431                                                                                              i.           i.
                                                                 Christian IX. of Denmark, ii. 216                        ; i.
Carnarvon, Lord, Colonial Secretary                              Christmas Island, ii. 513
   in Disraeli's Cabinet, ii. 289                                Church, Irish, Disestablishment of,
Carton, Duke of Leinster's place, i. 461                         ii. 242-251 the Duke's speech on,
Castellamare, i. 198
Castle Howard, Lord Carlisle's place, j ii. 247
                                                                 Church Patronage in Scotland, 164-
i. 345, 346                                                      166 Bill for its abolition, ii. 312-
Cathcart, General, i. 502
Catherine, Empress of Russia, i. 438                                      ;;
                                                                 317 the Duke's speech on, ii. 313                                ;;
                                                                 the Duke's correspondence withi.
Catholic Emancipation, i. 63, 64, 66                             Gladstone on, ii. 314-319

Cato Street conspiracy, i. 557
Catullus, villa of, i. 210                                       Church of Scotland,
Cavagnari, Sir Louis, British Resident                           the Veto Law,                       i.         88-91, 163
                                                                                                          i.
   at Kabul, murdered, ii. 333                                                                       165 Disestab
                                                                 lishment of, ii. 319, 450-456 the
Cavendish, i. 324                                                Duke's speech at Glasgow on,
Cavendish, Lord Frederick, ii. 343
                                                                 ii. 450

Cavour, Count, ii. 142                                           Church and State, ii. 312-321

Celtic Society, i. 184                                           Cintra, 241
                                                                 Circassia, independence of, ii. 22, 23
Chaffinch, i. 338, 339
Chalmers, Dr. Thomas, minister of Civita Vecchia, 254
                                                                                             i.

Tron Church, Glasgow, i. 89, 90 ;                                Clanricarde, Marquis of, iL 215
his astronomical discourses, i. 89,                              Clarendon, Lord, Foreign Secretary
94 ; sermon on Princess Charlotte's                              in Aberdeen's Ministry, 386, 387
death, i. 305 ; his enormous brain-                              1 in Palmerston's,                             i. i.               ;; ; ; ;

                                                                                                                              ;;
                                                                                                     ;        536, 598 hia
                                                                        liveliness and humour, 451 his
case, i. 357                                                                                           i. ' i.
Chamberlain, Joseph, ii. 409, 447 ; j
   i' Home Rule, ii. 425 ; his letter of                         i. ' i.tactful ability and straightness,
                                                                           464 the Duke's letter on the
   sympathy on the Duke's death, J                                       Four Points or Bases,' 489;;
   ii. 586                                                              despatch of an officer to Austria,;        i.
Chambers, Robert, ' Vestiges of Crea                                                           i. '
                                                                           507 faithful to the cause of a
tion,' i. 580, 581                                                      reasonable peace,
                                                                                                                538 check
                                                                                                                ;

Chamounix, i. 220                                                       mates the French Emperor's

                          296, 297                                                           542 proposed treaty
                          ii. 311
CChhaarrlleesmaIIg.n, e,i.                                              schemes,    i.
                            3, ii.
                                   i.                                   with Sweden, 563, 564, 591, 592
                                       i.
Charlotte, Princess, 304, 305                                           under Palmerston's sway,                   ; i.         568,

Charlotte, Queen, 14                                                    570 and the dispute with Amer                   ;
Charteris, Lady Caroline, 233                                                ;
Charteris, Lady Jane, 235                                                       i.
                                              i.                        ica, 591 approves Austria's

                        i.                                              peace proposals,             i.         593, 599 at
                             i.
                                i.
                                          i.
Chartists in 1848, 303                                                  Paris Conference, ii. 20-24 the
Chatham, Lord, 7-10                                                     Mosquito Protectorate, ii. 47, 48

Chateworth, 339                                                         the Bessarabian frontier, ii. 52

                                 INDEX                                                         613

the Oraini affair, ii. 108 ; Disraeli's      Como, Lake of, i. 216, 217
India Bill, ii. 112, 113 ; vindicates
Palmerston's policy, ii. 109 ; letter        Compensation for improvements
from the Duke on his Dundee                     (Irish Land Bill), ii. 259

speech, ii. 128 ; succeeds Russell at        IllConspiracy Bill, ii. 108 ; dropped,
Foreign Office, ii. 229 ; on party-             ii.
disorganization, ii. 241 ; Foreign           Constantinople, ii. 328
Secretary in Gladstone's first Ad
ministration, ii. 247 ; his illness,         Contemporary Review, Max Muller's

                                                article on  Darwin            in,  ii. 527          i.
                                             Conybeare,     ' Life           of    St. Paul,'

   ii. 261                                       125
Clark, Sir Andrew, ii. 298, 460              Cook's ' Voyages,' i. 84
Claughton, Dr., Bishop of St. Albans,
                                             Cooper's Hill College for training
   ii. 383                                      civil engineers for India, founded
                                             by the Duke, ii. 270
Clavering, Colonel, i. 27
Clavering, Douglas, i. 28 ; commander        Copper, Craigure, i. 121
                                             Corinth, i. 253
   of H.M.S. Redwing, i. 29
Clavering, Lady Augusta (nee Camp            Corinthians, Epistle I. to the, ii. 549
                                             Corn Laws, repeal of the, i. 158-160,
   bell), i. 27, 28
Cleveland, Duchess of, i. 150                   270-273; Bill for abolition of, i.
Clieveden, near Taplow, Duke of
                                             274, 276

Sutherland's place, i. 419, 420, 479,        Correggio, his frescoes at Parma, i.

480                                          258
Clyde, Firth of, i. 46, 47
Clydesdale horses, ii. 550                   Cotes, the artist, his portrait of Eliza
Cobden, Richard, i. 159 ; ii. 28, 209 ;      beth, Duchess of Argyll, i. 13
                                             Cotton famine (1862), ii. 190
his speech on the Canton River               Cowley, Lord (Sir Henry Wellesley),
affair, ii. 70 ; loses his seat, ii. 74 ;
                                                British Minister in Paris, i. 552-555,
and the commercial treaty with
France, ii. 153 ; on Queen Vic               Cra5b9b6,e,59' 8T,ailie.s  143       Hall,'
toria, ii. 188 ; the anti-slavery                                        of  the          ii.  572

cause, ii. 190 ; his Free Trade              Craigure copper, i. 121
                                             Cranes, their habits at pairing
doctrine, ii. 394 ; his school, ii. 554         season, ii. 504
Cockburn, Lord, i. 174                       Cranworth, Lord Chancellor (Baron
Cockburn, Sir Alexander, arbiter in
the Alabama affair, ii. 213                     Rolfe), i. 380, 518, ii. 10, 11 ; and
Codrington, General, Commander-in-              Disraeli's India Bill, ii. 112, 113 ;
                                             his attack on commercial treaty
Chief in the Crimea, i. 584-586              with France : the Duke's reply,
Coke, Lord, ii. 15, 19                       ii. 156
Colchester, Lord, ii. 6
Coleridge, Samuel Taylor,    ' Ancient       Crimean War, i. 435 to ii. 25 passim :
                                                causes of, i. 435-451; a tangled skein,
   Mariner,' i.                              i. 464 ; united effort for a diplo
Coleridge, Sir   J1.2D9. (afterwards Lord),  matic settlement, i. 467 ; despatch
                                                                                           Varna,
  his Bill for   abolition of University     of   troops    t'oFoGuarlliPpooliintsan' dor   ' Four
                                             i.  473 ; the
   tests, ii. 309
Cole tit, i. 70, 71, ii. 507                 Bases,' i. 483 ; troubles and dis
Coll Island, i. 133
Colonsay, Duncan McNeill, Baron,             asters, i. 514 ; reinforcements sent
                                             out, i. 515 ; improved condition of
   Lord Advocate for Scotland, i. 268,       army, i. 542, 560, 561 ; peace

    567                                      negotiations, i. 547, 548, 563, 584-
Columba, i. 130                                 602, ii. 8, 9 ; Conference and
                                                Treaty of Paris, ii. 20-25
Columbidae, ii. 482                          CriBmilinl,atlheLDauwke('Isreslapneedc)hesAmone,ndiim. 4e1n9t-
Commercial crisis, 1857, ii. 89
Committee of Inquiry into causes             422

   and conduct of the Crimean War,

i. 536                                       Crofter Act, i. 294

                                                                                   f4

614 INDEX

Crofter question, the Duke's speech            Denmark, the Sehleswig-Holstein
    in House of Lords  on, ii. 464
'  Crofters and Farms  in the Hebrides,'          question, ii. 214-228
                                               Denominational education, ii. 306-

   ii. 389                                     308
Croll, Dr., i. 333, 334                        Derby, Lord,                                           his first
                                                  Government  i. 315, 318 ;                           of raw
Crossbill, i. 116, 117, ii. 563                               -- a Cabinet                            attitude
                                                                                                      of Scot
Crows and their habits, i. 73 ;                recruits, i. 360-366 ; his

   carrion, ii. 339                            towards the Universities
Cruachan, Ben, on Loch Awe, i. 220,
                                               land, i. 368 ; v. Aberdeen, i. 389 :
   ii. 512, 518                                his attack on Gladstone's Budget.
Culloden, Battle of, i. 7                      i. 432-434 ; on the Foreign Enlist
                                               ment Act, i. 512 ; plays into Pal-
Cumberland, Duke     of, i.  '5N, o6tes  of a  merston's hands, ii. 50 ; leader of
Cumming, Dr. W.                                the Protectionists, ii. 51 ; and the
                      F.,                      Canton River imbroglio, ii. 69 ;
                                               attacks Canning, ii. 99 ; bis second
   Wanderer in Search of Health,'              Government, ii. 111-136 ; his
                                               glowing gratitude to Bright, ii. 129;
   i. 188, 205, 221. 234, 235, 238,            his Reform Bill introduced by Dis
                                               raeli, ii. 132, 133 ; on the Alabama
   304                                         claims, ii. 209 ; Prime Minister for
                                               the third time, ii. 211 ; and Den
Cummings of Logie, the, i. 188                 mark, ii. 223 ; another Reform Bill,
Cuninghame of Craigends, John, i.              ii. 236 ; Foreign Secretary in Dis
                                               raeli's Cabinet, ii. 289
   62

Cuvier, i. 76, 409

Daily News, ii. 241                            Desenzano, i. 209
Dalhousie, Marquis of, Governor-
                                               Dettingen, Battle of, i. 5, 9
   General of India, i. 51, 280, 298-          Devon Commission, ii. 256
    300, ii. 81 ; his advice about the         De'vYoonsuhrisret,ruDlyu,kDeenodf,roib. iu33m8,,'      ii.
   East India Company, i. 420 ;                                                                               447   ;
   chorus of attacks against, ii. 87-89 ;                                                              i.     339   :
   his wife's death, ii. 88 ; the Duke's       and Paxton, ibid.; his garden party
    defence of, ii. 101, 269                   at Chiswick in honour of Emperor
Dalhousie, ninth Earl of, i. 51                Nicholas, i. 438 ; and Gladstone.
Dalmeny, Lady Wilhelmina (nee                  ii. 429
   Stanhope), afterwards Duchess of            Deym, Count, ii. 479
    Cleveland, i. 150                          Diatomaceae, i. 327, 328 ; the move
Dalton, his atomic theory, i. 118              ment of, ii. 502
Dampier, i. 84                                 Dibdin, Charles, secretary of the
Danish question, the Duke's speech               Royal National Lifeboat Institu
    on, ii. 223-227                            tion, ii. 591
Dante, i. 213
Danubian Provinces, i. 593, ii. 27             Dickens, Charles, i. 416, 417
Darkwood, Rosneath, i. 115                     Dickie, Mr., one of the oldest tenants
Darwin, Charles, ' Origin of Species,'
    ii. 482-484, 486, 487, 527, 529, 530 ;        on the Argyll estates, ii. 587
    and natural selection, ii. 491-493,        Dillon, Mr., ii. 405

    496 ; his ice mania, ii. 517               Dingo, the Australian, ii. 502
Darwin, Professor (now Sir George),                                                      ii. 565
                                               DipDpuekre's(w' aStoenr-gou' soefl,),ii.  566               ;  the
    his correspondence with the Duke,
    ii. 491, 492                               Disestablishment, Irish Church, ii.
Davidson, Dr. Randall, Archbishop              242-251 ; Scottish Church, ii. 319.
    of Canterbury, his letter to Duchess
   of Argyll, ii. 582                          450-456
Deceased Wife's Sister Bill, ii. 462
De la Beche, Sir Henry, i. 345, 353            Disraeli,   o; BnBerPnoejuaegml'hsianm' h(eEaaanvryl'  of Beacons-
De la Chaux, Mademoiselle, i. 42, 43,                                                                 pleasantry."
                                                  field),                                             extinct vol
     221                                          i. 152

Delhi, ii. 83                                  cano,'      i. 158; rise   opf,hria. se27"5,C2o7a8l-i
                                               281 ; '     the clap-trap

                                  INDEX                                                       615

tion," ' i. 342 ; ' to sit supreme,'                    Eastern Question, i. 449, ii. 322-336 ;

i. 361 ; against any union of parties,                     the Duke's speeches on, at Glas
i. 365 ; his first Budget, i. 368, 384,                    gow, ii. 323, 324 ; in the House of
385, 421 ; Gladstone's reply, i. 369 ;                      Lords,  ii. 334, 335
vote of censure on Crimean War                          '  Eastern    Question,'  by     the Duke,

defeated,       i.      5;57Gl;adsotnone'sLew' ips'isl     ii. 322, 329, 330, 332, 335, 336
Budget,
           ii.      73                                  Economy, political, i. 227
grimages of passion,' ii. 75 ; his
India Bill, ii. 111-119; and Glad                       Edinburgh, i. 323 ; the Duke's great
                                                           speeches at, ii. 196-198, 454, 465 ;
   stone, ii. 120 ; introduces Derby's                     Gladstone on Disestablishment at,
  Reform Bill, ii. 133 ; moves vote                        ii. 454 ; the Duke's address on ' The
   of censure on the Danish question,                      Love of Truth ' at University of,

  ii. 228 ; his Reform Bill of 1867,                       ii. 534, 536
  ii. 235 ; in power again, ii. 242 ;
   resigns, ii. 246 ; his Government of                 Edinburgh Review, i. 310, 473 ; the
   1874, ii. 289 ; on the Indian famine,                   Duke vindicates Dalhousie and
   ii. 291 ; despatches Indian troops
                                                           Caratnicnleingonin,'  ii. 89, 269 ; the Duke's
   to Malta, ii. 329                                                             The Supernatural ' in,
Disturbances Act (Ireland), ii. 349,                       ii. 526

    354                                                 Edinburgh School of Medicine, ii. 324
                                                        Education, Irish, ii. 288 ; denomina
D'ltajuba, Baron, arbiter in the
Alabama affair, ii. 213                                    tional and religious, ii. 306-308 ;

Diver, black-throated, ii. 505 ; red-                      University tests, ii. 309 ; Bill for
   throated, ii. 563                                                      and Scotland,  ii.
                                                        EdEwnagrladndI.,  i. 266              301-312

Dogs as draught animals, ii. 501                        Edwards, Jonathan, i. 89
Dowse, Mr., ii. 357                                     Egerton, Lord Francis, afterwards
                                                           Earl of Ellesmere, q.v.
Dryden on Shaftesbury, ii. 18                           Eilean an Naoimh island, ii. 515
Ducks, Gadwall, at Tiree, ii. 508                       Elder Brethren of the Trinity House,
Dudley, Lord, his amendment to                             their tribute to the Duke, ii. 590

   Employers' Liability Bill, ii. 466                   Eleusis, i. 247
Duff, Sir M. E. Grant, on the Duke's                    Elgin, Lord, Governor-General of
   Glasgow speech, ii. 448
Dufferin, Lady, ii. 558                                    Canada, i. 300, ii. 78 ; and the
Dufferin, Lord, the Duke's intimate                        treaty with China, ii. 147, 150 ;
                                                           his letter to the Duke, ii. 148
   friend, i. 462 ; and Irish Land Bill,                Ellenborough, Lord, i. 419 ; on the
   ii. 255, 257 ; Ambassador at St.

Petersburg, ii. 336 ; resigns Vice-                        Foreign Enlistment Act, i. 511,
royship of India, ii. 461 ; the                            512 ; his Memorandum on Crimean
Duke's letters to, ii. 129, 346, 348,                      War, i. 544; his attack on Pal

354, 366, 368, 369, 403, 461, 558 ;                        merston's Government, i. 559 ; and

his letters to the Duke, ii. 336, 363,                     Cannings, ii. 81, 82, 99
                                                        Ellesmere, Dowager Countess (Lady
380

Dumbarton Presbytery, tribute to the                       Mary Campbell), i. 187
   Duke, ii. 589                                        Ellesmere, Earl of (Lord Francis
                                                           Egerton), i. 236, 237, 264, 277, 306,
Dundas, Sir David, and Rogers, i. 395
Dundee Corn Exchange and Public                            307, 395
                                                        Elswick Mutual Life Insurance Com
   Hall opened bv the Duke, ii. 126
Dunkellin, Lord,"ii. 232                                   pany, ii. 467

Dunrobin, i. 297, 355                                      Emerson, i. 412 ; his lectures in

East India Company and its rela                            London, i. 413
   tion to the Crowr i. 418-420;
   Palmerston's Bill to abolish, ii. 86,                   Emmet, Robert, ii. 410
   98 ; petition of, ii. 104, 105 ; the                    Employers' Liability Bill, ii. 466
   Duke's speech on, ii. 105                               Encke's comet, i. 94

                                                           Encumbered Estates Court, ii. 258
                                                           English Prayer-Book service, i. 103

616 INDEX

English scenery, i. 100                                         Forbes, Professor Edward,                                           156,
Erskine, Lord Blan tyre's place on the                                                                                i.
                                                                  J.578                                                 i.

                                                                Forbes, Professor                                               i.
           i.H3a6r8r,v5, 82'                                                                                   D., 156, 182
  IClyde,                              hae ye noo,              Foreign Enlistment Act, 511, 591,
                                                                ii. 48, 51, 202, 210, 211
Erskine,
   Harry !' ii. 532
Erskine, Lord, British Minister at                              Foreman, Mr., his correspondence
Dresden, i. 197                                                 with the Duke on Employers'
Etheridge, Mr., British Museum, ii. 510                         Liability Bill, ii. 467, 468
Etna, Mount, i. 200, 245                                        Forster, W. E., ii. 355, 356

Eubcea, island of, i. 249                                       Fortification scheme, ii. 147, 164-166
                                                                Fossil leaf-beds in Isle of Mull, 349-
Eugenie, Empress, i. 546                                                                                              i.
Ewart, Professor Cossar, the Duke's                             353                                                         i.

correspondence with on the electric                             Fossil wood at Helmsdale, 355, 356
organs of the skate, ii. 494, 495                               Fould, M., ii. 153
Exhibition of 1851, i. 319, 337-341                             Fox, Charles James, 64, 122, 376
                                                                Pitt's determined enemy,                       i. i.                     ;;;
Faber, Father William, i. 182                                                                                             i. i.     148
                                                                Lord Holland's likeness to, 152
Factory Acts, i. 98, ii. 303, 553                               Coalition (1782) of North and,
Falcons at Rosneath, ii. 561, 503                                      375 on Russia, 438
Falkirk, Battle of, i. 6                                        i. i. i.

                                                                            ;;
                                                                                      ;
Farringford, Tennyson's place, i. 400,                          Foyers, Falls of, ii. 67
                                                                France and the Holy Places claim.
ii. 251                                                                443, 444 and England v. Russia.
Feathers, adaptation of, i. 78, 79                                     467 war with Austria, ii. 138
FFeenrdiainnanmdovIeI.m, eKnitn, gii.                           annexes Nice and Savoy, ii. 146                                          ::
                                        243
                                       of Naples,      ii.  52  commercial treaty with, ii. 153-156

Ferguson of Kinmundy, Sheriff of                                Franchise Act of 1884, ii. 384-389                                  ;

Argyll, ii. 580                                                 the Duke's support for, ii. 386
Ferrara, i. 208                                                 Francis, Emperor of Austria, 377
                                                                                                                          i.

Ferrara, Renee, Duchess of, i. 208                              Franco-Prussian War, ii. 293

Field, ii. 486                                                  Fraser, Professor Campbell, ii. 536
                                                                Frederick, Emperor of Germany,
Fiesolo, i. 205

Financial crisis (1857), ii. 89                                        304-306, ii. 296i. i.
Fireflies in Italy, i. 196
Firs, silver, at Inveraray, i. 19                               Frederick VII. of Denmark, ii. 216
                                                                Frederick William IV., King of
Firth of Clyde, i. 46, 47                                            Prussia, 305, 306, 332, 334, 377
Fitzgerald, Lord Edward, i. 32,                                                  i.
                                                                                    i.
                                                                Free Trade, 158-160, 269, 274, 298.
   ii. 410                                                           361, 373, 389, 399, ii. 554
Fitzmaurice, Lord Edmond, ' Life of                             French invasion (1744), alarms of,
Lord Granville,' ii. 102                                                         Revolution,
                                                                       6,                                      i.     64, 65, 189.
                                                                           7
                                                                              ;

Fitzwilliam, Lord (' Corncrake                         '),          303
                                                            i.
                                                                Frere, Sir Bartle, ii. 78, 99
152
Flight of Birds,' 75 the Duke's
·                                                               Frigate-bird, ii. 563
    i.                                                          Fry, Mrs. Elizabeth, the Quakeress
                    ;

                    i.
                         i.

                                      ;
                                    i.
                                                    ;
article on, ii. 501
Floronoe,
                 203 the galleries of,                               philanthropist-reformer,                             414
                                                            ;
204 museum of anatomical                                                                     i.
                                                                                                                      i.
                                                                Fugitive Slave Law, ii. 55
    models at, 205                                              Fyne, Loch,
Flower, Professor Sir William, ii. 448                                                   296, 306; the mys
                                                                     terious migration of herrings in,
his correspondence with the Duke                                     ii. 502, 503

on the prospective character of                                 Gadwall ducks at Tiree, ii. 508
rudimentary organs, ii. 488-490
Fly-catchers, ii. 339                                           Gannet, or solan-goose, its mode of
Fontainebleau, 189, 190                                            fishing, 225 its plunging act,

                                                                       226
                                                                Gareloch, 16, 17
                                                                Geikie, Professor, ii. 511
                 i.
                         i.
                               9
                                           i.
                                                                   i.
                                                                                  i. i.

                                                                                                            ;
Fontenoy, Battle of,
Forbes of Culloden, Duncan, 9,21,
23,24

                                                INDEX                               617

General Assembly, Scotland, i. 165,                  views on Russia, i. 601, ii. i ; his
   163-172, 174, 175, ii. 452                        ' eagerness in a personal handling
                                                     of the axe,' ii. 2 ; his Church
Geneva, i. 219 ; arbitration on Ala                  discussion with the Duke, ii. 3 ;
   bama claims at, ii. 213                           his attitude during Crimean War,
                                                     ii. 29-44 ; pro-Russian speeches,
Genoa, i. 193                                        ii. 51 ; and Moore's motion of
Geographical Society, Scotland, the
                                                     censure,    ii. 52     ; and   Naples,     ii.
   Duke's lecture to, ii. 463                        53 ; and      Sir      George     Lewis  --a
Geological Museum, London, ii. 511
Geological Society of London, i. 349,                contrast, ii. 72 ; abuses Lewis's

   353, ii. 509 ; tribute to the Duke,               Budget, ii. 73, 76 ; General Elec
   ii. 591
Geology and palaeontology, ii. 509-                  tion of 1857, ii. 75, 76 ; a violent
                                                     opponent of new Divorce Law,
    512  IIII.I,.,i.i.515     and Pitt,              ii. 79 ; and Disraeli's India Bill,

George                     ;             i. 64       ii. 112-114; Disraeli and, ii. 120;
George                                               Derby's Reform Bill, ii. 132;
George IV., i. 180                                   Chancellor of Exchequer in Pal-
George Eliot quoted, ii. 580                         merston's second Ministry, ii. 137 ;
Germany and the Schleswig-Holstein                   on the Italian question, ii. 142 ;

   question, ii. 214-228; William I.
proclaimed first Emperor of, ii. 295                 reviews Tennyson's poems in
Gibbon, Edward, i. 84, 190                           Quarterly Review, ii. 148 ; on peace
                                                     with China, ii. 150 ; his Budget of
Gibraltar, i. 243
Gibson, Milner, ii. 74, 108                          1860, ii. 152, 155-166 ; the Paper
Giotto's Campanile, Florence, i. 203                 Duties, ii. 162 ; the Trent affair,
Glacial Age, i. 350, 351, ii. 518                    ii. 179-181 ; his sympathies with
Glaciation: Raised Beaches, ii. 514-                 the Southern States, ii. 193 ; on

    720                                                the Duke's eloquent speech at
                                                       Edinburgh, ii. 197 ; at Rome, ii.
Gladstone, William Ewart, i. 280 ;
   about peers, i. 269, ii. 398 ; the                  233 ; his Reform Bill of 1866, ii.
   Duke's relations with, i. 310-312,
                                                     230, 231, 234 ; speech at Liverpool,
       482, ii.     382, 408 ; his review       of                          ohfisthSeusLpiebnesroarlypaBritlyl,
479,  Duke's     '  Presbytery Examined              ii. 230  ;   leader
the                                               '  (1868),     ii. 242 ;

in the Quarterly Review, i. 310, 311 ;                 ii. 243 ; forms his first Ministry,
gravitating towards Lord Derby,                        ii. 246 ; his illness, ii. 261 ; dis

i. 363 ; his reply to Disraeli's                       solves, ii. 289 ; v. Church Patronage
Budget speech, i. 369, 385, 386 ;                      Bill, ii. 314 ; the Bulgarian atroci
and Lord Aberdeen, i. 373, ii. 51 ;                    ties, ii. 327 ; the Irish Land Bill,

Chancellor of the Exchequer in                         ii. 355-366, 370-376 ; the Franchise
                                                       and Redistribution Bills, ii. 384-
Aberdeen's Ministry, i. 381, 382 ;
appoints committee for income-tax,
                                                       389 ; defeated on his 1885 Budget,
                                                            339933-4;0L1ibe; rhaislis'mGleaanndinRgasd,'iciai.lis3m95,
i. 385 ; his breakfast parties, i. 408 ;               ii.
his income-tax proposals to the                        ii.
                                                                                                                        ;

Cabinet, i. 422-426; his Budget                        the great apostle and prophet of
                                                       the Parnellite party, ii. 420 ; his
speech, i. 429-434, 482 ; supports                     third Government defeated on
cause of peace, i. 456 ; no mis                        Home Rule, ii. 455 ; the Duke on
givings about the war, i. 477 ; his
views on Reform Bill, i. 480, 481 ;                    his policy, ii. 458 ; his fourth
his intolerance of Irish Church,                       Ministry, ii. 466 ; Armenian mas
i. 481 ; exposes Russell's conduct,                    sacres, ii. 469, 470, 475-480; his
i. 522 ; secedes from Palmerston,
i. 526, 528, 537, 588, ii. 51 ; his                    letters to the Duke, ii. 30, 32, 36,
attitude towards Palmerston' s
Ministry, i. 556-562 ; his mind                        37, 43, 44, 119, 142, 145, 149, 150,
' essentially fanatical,' i. 561 ; sus
picions of Palmerston, i. 588 ; his                    153, 179, 180, 191, 207, 208, 218,

                                                       231, 252-254, 258-260, 347, 351,

                                                       363, 365, 358, 362, 370, 372, 470,

                                                       477 ; the Duke's letters to, ii. 31,

618 INDEX

33, 39, 41, 114, 135, 144, 145, 149,         H' aomcoealSiteiocnretianryh,imi.se2l7f,2',   273,   280 ;
150, 154, 155, 164, 166, 171, 179-                                                        i. 379  ; his
                                             sledge-hammer, i. 380 ; and Glad
181, 185-187, 189, 190, 193-195,             stone's views on income-tax, i. 426 ;

202-208, 210, 229, 230, 232, 235,
236, 239-242, 244, 246, 254, 255, I supplies transport for French
                                             troops to Crimea, i. 515 ; secedes
293, 294, 310, 330, 341, 344, 349,        I  from Palmerston, i. 526, 537 ; ' a
354, 356, 359-361, 363, 370-372,          i  Cabinet weighted with two Dukes,'
375, 382, 385-387, 393, 395, 397-
399, 402-404, 406, 407, 433, 434.         I  i. 559 ; drafting a Reform Bill with
436, 469, 475, 476, 478, 479                 Russell, ii. 123; ' the big Baronet
Glasgow, opening of Athenaeum in,            of Netherby,' ii. 130 ; Derby's
   i. 337 ; the Duke's inaugural ad          Reform Bill, ii. 132
dress as Lord Rector of Univer               Graham, Lord William, Tory candi

sity, i. 545 ; meeting of British            date for Dumbarton, i. 68
Association at, i. 572-576 ; the             Grampians, the i. 46
Duke's presidential address, i. 577-         Grant of Laggan, Mrs., ' Letters from
582; the Duke's speech on Home                  the Mountains,' i. 51
Rule at the Unionist demonstra
tion at, ii. 437 ; the Duke's speech         Grant, President, and the Treaty of
                                             Washington, ii. 212
on Disestablishment at, ii. 450 ; Granville, Lady, i. 264
   Max Miiller's lectures at, ii. 537        Granville, Lord, i. 152 ; Foreign
Glassell of Longniddry, John, i. 51             Secretary in Russell's Administra
Glassell, Mrs. John (nee Brown of            tion,  i. 347 ; his Administration of
   Coulston), i. 51                          ' All  the Talents,' i. 375, 376 ;
                                             President of the Council in Aber
Glenaray, ii. 518, 519
Glencairn, Earl of, i. 62                    deen's Ministry, i. 380 ; supports
Glencroe, ii. 88                             peace, i. 456, 457 ; Molesworth and,

Glenforsa estate, i. 230                     i. 460 ; on Cowley, i. 554 ; the re
                                             ported agreement between Glad
Glenfruin, i. 47                             stone and Graham to join Disraeli,
Glen Kyle, ii. 88
Glenlee, Lord, i. 174                        i. 583 ; and Napoleon, i. 589 ;
                                             wants Sidney Herbert for Colonial
Glenroy, the parallel roads of, ii. 516,
517 Office, i. 590 ; sounds the Duke
Glenshira, i. 296, ii. 61, 518, 519 ;        as to Postmaster-General's office,

the Duke's poem on, ii. 559                  i. 592, 593 ; on Austria's peace
Glynne, Sir Stephen, ii. 314                 proposals, i. 593 ; denies report
Gneiss, Lawrentian, Lewisian, and            about Canning, ii. 81 ; on Palmer -
Hornblendic, i. 142                          ston's plan of Reform, ii. 94 ; on

Golden-eye (bird), ii. 508                   the Duke's speech in Dalhousie's
Gonzaga, Louis, Captain of Mantua,           defence, ii. 102 ; his views on Dis
ii. 383                                      raeli's India Bill, ii. 112 ; President
Gordon, General, his death at Khar           of the Council in Palmerston's
toum, ii. 389-391 ; the Duke's in
terview with, and description of,            second Ministry, ii. 137 ; and the
                                             Italian question, ii. 144 ; Foreign
ii. 392                                      Secretary on Clarendon's death in
Gordon, Lord George, i. 375
                                             1870, ii. 212, 295 ; Colonial Secre
Gortschakoff, Prince, i. 569                 tary in Gladstone's first Ministry,
                                             ii. 247 ; Foreign Secretary in Glad
Goschen, Lord, ii. 229, 398, 443, 447;

his letter to the Duke, ii. 417 ; v.         stone's second Ministry, ii. 348 j

Home Rule, ii. 425                           his letters to the Duke, ii. 94, 1 12,

Gossander, ii. 339                           261, 291, 324, 347, 353, 380 ; the

Gott Bay, i. 134                             Duke's letters to, ii. 104, 107, 111,
Graham, Lady Hermionc, ii. 130
Graham, Sir James, i. 157, 360, 363,         114, 148, 152, 291, 323, 384, 390,

                                             458

385. 420, 474, ii. 315, 398 ; Peel's Grassellini, Cardinal, ii. 233

                                              INDEX                                                            619

Gravitation, law of, i. 96                                  ture of Europe,' i. 407 ; on Ireland,
Greece, the Duke's first visit to,                          ii. 427
i. 246-250 ; the Don Pacifioo affair,                    Halsbury, Earl of, Lord Chancellor,

i. 323                                                      letter to the Duchess of Argyll,
Greenland ice-sheet, ii. 517, 520
                                                            11. 585

Greenshank at Tiree, ii. 508                             Hamilton, Douglas, eighth Duke of,
Gregory XVI., Pope, i. 194
Gre' gmoirxyt,urPer,o' fessi.or  James,  his  famous        i. 14, 37
                                 327,    405  ; and      Hamilton, Elizabeth, Duchess of (nee

mesmerism, i. 328, 329                                      Gunning), i. 12-15, 236
                                                         Hamilton, Emma, Lady, i. 13
Grenville, George, and the American                      Hamilton, James, sixth Duke of, i.
Stamp Act, i. 394
                                                            12, 236

Grenville, Thomas, i. 394, 395                           Hamilton, Mr., agent of the Leinster
Greville, Charles, ' Memoirs,' i. 29
                  second Earl, i. 67, 148                   estate, ii. 365
                   George, third Earl,                   Hamilton, Sir William, i. 224, 234,
Grey,   Charles,                                             235, ii.
Grey,    Henry                                           '  Hamlet     '31q1uoted,
Colonial Secretary, i. 315 ; at
Inveraray, i. 485 ; approves Cri                                                                     i.    54

                                                         Hansard, ii. 102
                                                         Harcourt, Canon William, i. 345, 346
mean War, i. 486 ; his motion on
War Office reorganization, i. 516 ;                      Harcourt, George, i. 345
present East India's Company                             Harcourt, Dr. Vernon, Archbishop of
petition to House of Lords, ii. 104 ;
and the East India Company stock                            York, i. 263, 345
                                                         Harcourt, Sir William Vernon, i. 346,
holders, ii. 107 ; his hostility to
Reform, ii. 122, 123                                        ii. 205, 409, 424
                                                         Hardinge, Lord, i. 367, 515
Grey, Lady, i. 485                                       Harrier (bird), ii. 507                               Earl of,
        Sir George, i. 546, 564,              ii. 10 ;   Harrowby, Dudley, second
Grey,   highmindedness, i. 517 ;              ' What        i. 155, 557
   his                                                   Harrowby, Dudley, third Earl of, i.

is this treaty ?' i. 591 ; Palmer -
Illston's Home Secretary, ii. 93 ; on
Disraeli's India Bill, ii.                    ; letters      156, 557, 558

from the Duke to, ii. 95, 97, 98,                        Hartington, Lord, ii. 136, 398, 409,
                                                            460 ; Lord Privy Seal in Palmer-
                                                            ston's Ministry, i. 592 ; Secretary
    102, 124, 125, 134, 151                                 for War in Russell's Ministry, ii.
                                                            229 ; Secretary for India in Glad
Grey, Lord de, Secretary of State for
   India, ii. 229

Greytown, Nicaragua, ii. 47, 48                             stone's second Ministry, ii. 348,
Groe, Baron, French Plenipotentiary                         353 ; and the Franchise Bill, ii.

to China, ii. 150                                           387 ; v. Home Rule, ii. 425, 443
Ground Game Act, ii. 550
Grove, Sir W., ii. 520                                   Hartmann, Professor, ii. 532

Guadalquiver River, i. 242                               Hatching temperature of birds, i. 81
Gvardian, ii. 236                                        Havelock, Sir Henry, ii. 83
                                                         Hawarden Castle, visit to, ii. 1
Guizot, M., i. 402, 437                                  Hay, Drummond, Consul at Tangiers,
Cunning, Elizabeth, Duchess of
                                                            i. 244
   Hamilton, afterwards Duchess of
                                                         Hayward, i. 460
Argyll, i. 12-15, 236                                    Head, Sir Edmund, ii. 198
                                                         Hebrides, the, i. 133 ; scenery of,
Haddo, Lord Aberdeen's place, i. 364
Haig, Colonel, his report on the                            i. 134, 321 ; famine in, i. 282-285
   Orissa Works, ii. 282                                 Hedsor parish church, i. 479, 480
Halifax, Lord, ii. 255                                   Heidelberg, ii. 119
                                                         Helmsdale, fossil wood at, i. 355, 356
Hall, Sir Benjamin, Board of Works,                      HHHeeemnnrrayynsIV,I.I,MIIri.is,..,i1i.6i.
                                                                                                      103
   ii. 49  Henry,                i. 401 ; ' Constitu                                                 427
Hallam,
tional History of England,' ' Litera                        Herbert, Auberon, ii. 246

620 TNDEX

J.Herbert, Sidney, i. 273, 280, 590, Howson,                            S., Dean of Chester
ii. 398 ; Secretary for War in j (' Life of St. Paul the Duke's
                                                             i.
                                                                                   '),
Aberdeen's Ministry, i. 380 ; sup-        j          tutor,  125, 129, 182-184, 188,
ports peace, i. 456 ; his attitude                   200, 202, 224, 228, 229, 234, 238,

towards Palmerston, i. 526, 528,                     239, 252, 253
556, 557 ; secedes from, i. 537 ; Hiibner, Baron von, Austrian Am
                                                bassador, ii. 137
   on Reform, ii. 121                        Hughes, Thomas, on the Duke's
Herons, habits at the pairing season,
                                                Home Rule speech at Glasgow,
   ii. 504 ; flight of, ii. 563                 ii. 447
Herrings, their mysterious migration         Huie family in Argyllshire, ii. 311
   in Loch Fyne, ii. 502, 503                Humbert, King, 194
                                             Hume, 84, 358               i.
Hibbert Lectures, Max Mttller's,                                              i.
                                             Hunterian Museum, Lincoln's Inn
   ii. 530     ' Jacob Omnium,'  i. 238,                  i. i.                            ;
Higgins, Mr.,                                                  i.                                ;

    239                                         Square, 408          '         411 his use of
Highland Agricultural Society, i. 26         Hutton, 354
Highland Society of London, their            Huxley, Professor,
   tribute to the Duke, ii. 592                      the word plan,' ii. 500 his ag
Highland regiments, formation of,                    nostic and aggressive frame of
                                                     mind, ii. 526
i. 7-10

Highland system of communal holi Hymettus, 246-248
                                                             i.

   days, i. 20, 131                          Income-tax, agitation in favour of
Hill, Sir Rowland, Permanent Secre
tary Post Office, ii. 5 ; and unpaid                 differentiation of, 384 Gladstone
letters, ii. 6 ; and postal system in                and the, 421-434 agitation for
Ireland, ii. 7                                       repeal of, ii. 72 in India, ii. 283,
                                                             i.             ;

                                                                              i.

                                                                                    ;
                                                                                            ;

Holland, its fanatical cleanliness, i.           287, 288
    222
                                             India, the Duke Secretary of State for,
Holland, Lord, i. 152                           in Gladstone's first Ministry, ii.

Holy Places, France's claim as to the,               247, 269-292 his railway policy,
                                                                   ;
                                                                      ;

                                                                                             ;
    i. 443, 444                                      ii. 272-274 his views on the
Home Rule, ii. 402-449 ; the Duke's                  finance question, ii. 274 the Land
                                                     Settlement question in, ii. 280-283
   speech on, ii. 428                                income-tax in, ii. 283, 287, 288                  ;;
Hook, Dr., Vicar of Leeds, i. 104
Hook, Mrs., i. 104                                   Rent and Revenue Acts for North
Hooker, Sir William, and the Duke's                  western Provinces, ii. 284 threat
                                                     ened famine in, ii. 288 Military
   fir-cone, ii. 560                                                                     ;
                                                                                            ;

Hope, Admiral, ii. 147, 148                     Reform, ii. 270i.              ;
Hope, John, Dean of Faculty, after           India Bill, 420, 432 Palmerston's,       ;
                                                                 ;
   wards Lord Justice Clerk, i. 178,            ii. 94, 95, 98, 102-104 Disraeli's,
                                                ii. 111-118 passed as amended by
     181

Hopkins, Professor, Cambridge, i.               Russell, ii. 119
    583                                      Indian Mutiny, ii. 78, 80, 82, 83, 80,
Hoppner, his portrait of Lady Char
                                                     92, 99, 100, 103 due to a genuine
                                                                         i. ;
   lotte Campbell, i. 29                        religious panic, ii. 81
Hornblendic Gneiss, i. 142                   Inglis, Sir Robert, 333, 334 Pre
                                                                                                    ;

Horner, Leonard, i. 404                              sident of the Literary Society,
Houghton, Lord (Monckton Milnes),                                           Privy Councillor.
                                             i. i. i.  414, 415    i. ;  a
   i. 401
                                                       416, ii. 399
                                             Inkerman, Battle of, 498, 499, 504,
Hougomont farmhouse, i. 260, 261                                            i.

Hourn, Loch, i. 295                                  506

House of Commons, i. 267-269                 Inns, posting, 99
Household Suffrage, ii. 235, 236             Inquiry into the causes and conduct
Howley, Dr., Archbishop of Canter
                                                of the Crimean War, Committee of,

bury, i. 151                                           536

                                                INDEX                                                                    621

International Law, ii. 205-208                         Johnson, Mr., American Minister,
Inveraray, silver firs at, i. 19 ; the
                                                       ii. 212
    Queen and Prince Consort visit,                    Joicey, Sir James, ii. 460
   i. 296 ; Rob Roy's stronghold at,                   Joinville, Prince de, ii. 182
   ii. 61, 62 ; fire at the castle, ii. 341 ;          Jordanhill, 576
   the Duke's speech in the hall re                    '
   stored in commemoration of the
   Diamond Jubilee, ii. 557, 558                                       i. of i.
Iona, ii. 245, 252, 504 ; monks of,                                                     i. ; i. i.

   i. 20                                                                                                    ;
Ireland, Rebellion of 1789 in, i. 31,                                                                             of
                                                       Journal de Oeneve, Le, ii. 480
   32; potato famine (1846), i. 66,                    Journal
    282 ; postal system, ii. 7 ; tenant                         the Geological Society
   right in, ii. 255-259 ; crime in,                   London, 353
   ii. 260 ; University Education, ii.                 Junius, Letters of,' 84
   288; Criminal Law Amendment                         Jura, defiles of the, 221 quartz
   Bill, ii. 419                                       strata in, ii. 514 raised beaches
Irish Church, Disestablishment of,
   ii. 242-251                                         at, ii. 514, 517
Irish Land Act of 1870, ii. 350-353,                   Justinian, Pandects, 198

    356, 357, 361-365, 368, 376, 381                   Kabul, ii. 332, 333                                               602,
                                                       Karah, island of, ii. 65
Irish Land Bill (1870), Gladstone's,                   Kars, captured by Russia,
                                                                                                         i.
   ii. 253-267 ; compensation for im                                                                                 i.
   provements, ii. 259 ; the Duke's                       ii. 21, 229,
   views and speech on, ii. 262-266 ;                  Keir, Mr., ii. 543
   (1881), ii. 354-381 ; passed, ii. 382               Kelp, in the Hebrides, 284
Irvine, George Peter, i. 349                           Kelvin, Lord (Sir William Thomson),
Islay, Archibald, Earl of (afterwards
   third Duke of Argyll), i. 4, 5, 9                      correspondence with the Duke on
Islay, quartz strata in the island of,                 glaciation, ii. 516 on physios and
   ii. 514                                                               ;
Italian lakes, i. 209
Italian question, the, ii. 137-146                        chemistry, ii. 521
Italy, misgovernment of, ii. 52, 53                    Kent, Charles A., Secretary of Elder

                                                          Brethren of Trinity House, ii. 591
                                                       Kent Coast Times, ii. 433
                                                       Kertch, capture of, 560i.
                                                       Khartoum, ii. 389-391i.
                                                       Khatun-jan Khanum, ii. 461
                                                       Kherson, capture of, 589
                                                       Khyber Pass, ii. 332                                              i.
                                                       Kiaran, a follower of Columba,

                                                       130

* Jacob Omnium,' Mr. Higgins, i. 238,                  Kilchearon (now Campbeltown) Loch,

                                                                131i.

239                                                    Kildare, Caroline, Lady,                          i.  461
                                                       Kildare, Lord, 461
Jacobite Rebellion (1715), i. 2, 3 ;                   Kilkea Castle, 461
                                                                i. i.
Jam1e74s5,IIi..,  2,   3,  6,   7                                  i.
                   i.  3,  ii.   311                   Kilmun Church, 60
James VI., i. 13                                       Kimberley, Lord, ii. 477
James, Sir Henry, ii. 421, 460 ; v.
                                                       Kingfisher, 229, ii. 507
   Home Rule, ii. 425                                           i.
Jeffrey, Lord, i. 174                                                i.
Jenner, Dr., i. 582, ii. 187                                               i.
                                                       Kinglake, Mr., 460, ii. 231
Jephson, Dr., Leamington, i. 98, 101,                  Kingsley, Charles, 399, ii. 527
                                                       Kinnaird, Lord and Lady, ii. 126
                                                       Kintyre, 129-131 its oceanic bird
                                                                i. i.

                                                                             ;
                                                                                      ;
    110, 111                                           fauna, 225 the tenants' address

Jews Bill, i. 302, 303                                 to the Duke on his marriage, ii. 550;
Job, Book of, ii. 438
Joel, Book of, i. 266                 ' Tour in the       the Presbytery's tribute to the
Johnson, Dr. Samuel,                                      Duke, ii. 589
Hebrides,' i. 18, 321 ; on lay                         Kite, swallow-tailed, ii. 507
                       in                              Knight, Professor, St. Andrews Uni
                        of      Scotland,                 versity, President of the Liberal
p' athtreonpaaggees              Addison,'  i.  164 ;     Unionist Association, ii. 465
                                            i.  358 ;  Knock Sheep-farm, 286

his hatred of Scotland, 126
                                      ii.
                                                                                                     i.

622 INDEX

Knox, John, founder of the parochial Lay patronage in Scotland, i. 164-166,
   system in Scotland, ii. 302-304
Kossuth, ii. 180, 183                        '    169,  173   in the  Isle of                        Mull,'  the
                                                Leaf    Beds

                                                Duke's paper read before the Geo
Labouchere, Henry (Lord Taunton),               logical Society of London, ii. 509
   appointed to Colonial Office by           Learn River, i. 102

   Palmerston, i. 594 ; and the Whigs,       Leamington, i. 98, 110
   i. 505 ; and Disraeli's India Bill,       Leasowes, the home of Shenstone,

   ii. 112, 113                                 i. 358

Lady Mary Wood, s.s., i. 238                 Lecky, i. 91
                                             Lee, General, surrenders to Federal
Lago Maggiore, i. 218, 219
                                                arms, ii. 190
Laigh, Loch, i. 289, 351                     Leigh, Lord, of Stoneleigh Abbey,
Lake poets, the, i. 129
Lamarck, i. 580                                 i. 102, 111
Land Act of 1870, Irish, ii. 350-353
Land Bill of 1881, Irish, ii. 354-382        Leinster, Caroline, Duchess of (nee
Land question in India, ii. 280-283             Leveson-Gower), i. 264

                                             Leinster, Duke of, i. 461
Lansdowne, Henry Petty, third Mar Leipsic, Battle of, i. 377
   quis of, i. 265, 363, 369, 506, ii. 77 ;  LLLeeeoonnnXaorxId,IIoL.,odrPdaopaVen,idnicL.i,a1d94y'  Arthur, ii. 562
   the oldest member of Aberdeen's                                                                   Last Supper,'

   Cabinet, i. 375 ; represents purest
   traditions of Whig party, i. 376 ;           at Milan, i. 215

   and Gladstone's income-tax, i. 385, Leopold, King, i. 305
   432 ; subdued though warlike, Leopold of Hohenzollern, Prince,
   i. 456, 457 ; on Foreign Enlistment           ii. 293
   Act, i. 512 ; ' a figure-head in          '  Letters   to  the    Peers                           from  a Peer's

   politics,' i. 513 ; on Austria's peace       Son, on the Duty and Necessity of
   proposals, i. 596 ; denies report            an Immediate Legislative Inter
                                                position on Behalf of the Church
   about Canning, ii. 81 ; and Dis
   raeli's India Bill, ii. 112, 113;            of Scotland, as determined by Con
   Under-Secretary for India in Glad            siderations of Constitutional Law,'
   stone's second Ministry, ii. 349             i. 178
Lansdowne, William, second Earl Leveson - Gower, Lady Elizabeth
   of Shelburne, first Marquis of, i.           (afterwards Duchess of Argyll),

    375   ' Mecanique  Celeste,'    i. 255       i. 185, 263
Laplace,
Larvw, aquatic, i. 81                        Leveson-Gower, Lord Frederick, i.
Lauriston Castle, ii. 129
                                                 498,   4' 9M9onk,'  ii. 54
                                             Lewis,
                                             Lewis, Sir George Cornewall, Palmer
Lausanne, i. 219, 221                           ston's Chancellor of the Exchequer,

Law, International, ii. 205-208
Law Lords and life peerages, ii. 10-20          i. 540, 564, ii. 131 ; and Gladstone
Lawrence, Sir Henry, ii. 83                     --a contrast, ii. 72 ; his Budget of
Lawrence, Sir John, Lord, ii. 99-101,           1857, ii. 73 ; abused by Gladstone,
   335 ii. 73, 76 ; on the financial crisis of
Lawrentian Gneiss, i. 142                       1857, ii. 89 ; on Disraeli's India
                                                Bill, ii. 112, 113; and Derby's
Layard, Sir Austen Henry, Lady                  Reform Bill, ii. 132 ; Home Secre
   Morley's mot on, i. 534 ; his violent
   speeches, i. 535 ; and Aberdeen,             tary in Palmerston's second Minis
   ibid. ; omitted from Palmerston's            try, ii. 152 ; the anti-slavery cause,
   Ministry, i. 536 ; his ' Early Adven         ii. 190
                                             Lewisian Gneiss, i. 142
'  tures in Persia,  Susiana,  and  Baby-    Liberal Unionist party, the Duke's
   Ionia,' ii. 461

Layman's League, organized to op- i assistance to, ii. 465
   pose Disestablishment of Scottish Lieven, Madame de, i. 437, 441, 443
                                             Life peerage question, ii. 10-20
   Church, ii. 455

                                                          INDEX                                         623

Lilford, Lord, ii. 336; the Duke's                               and life peerages, ii. 12-19 ; his

letter on study of birds to, ii. 564 ;                           m' Jeeamloourasby,le    speech, ii.   16, 17 ;
the Duke's ' Burdens of Belief,'                                                       my Lords, is   the spirit

ii. 566, 569 ; death of, ii. 569                                 of our Constitution,' ii. 19 ; the

L' iLnicnoelsn,    President, ii. 169,           170             intolerable misgovernment of
                 to Lord Lilford,' ii.         336               Italy,' ii. 53 ; the Canton River
                                                                 affair, ii. 69
Lisbon, i. 241
Literary Society, i. 414
Liturgies and prayers, i. 127, 128                            Lyons, i. 190
Liverpool, Lord, i. 180, 378                                  Lyons, Admiral Sir Edmund, Lord,

                                                                 British Minister at Athens, Com
                                                                 mander of the Black Sea Fleet
Livingstone, David, his correspon                                during Crimean War, i. 250, 473-
   dence with the Duke, ii. 512
                                                                 475, 505, 560, ii. 179
Local Government (Scotland) Bill of                           Lyons, Bickerton, Lord, i. 250
                                                              Lyons, Miss Minnie, i. 250
   1894, ii. 469                                              Lytton, Lord, Viceroy of India, ii.

Locarno, i. 218

Lochinver, i. 295, 297

Lochleven, Lake and Castle of, i. 185                            330-333
Lodi, Bridge of, i. 259
Lombardy, Plain of, i. 208 ; cultiva                          Macaulay, Lord, his dictum about
tion of mulberry-trees on, i. 211 ;                              Christianity, i. 303 ; his breakfast-
poplars, i. 190 ; province of, ii. 138                           parties, i. 401 ; his conversation,
London riots, 1768, i. 15                                        i. 404 ; the table-turning incident,
                                                                 i. 405, 406 ; and Mrs. Stowe, ii. 58 ;
London School of Medicine, i. 324

London, Treaty of, ii. 216, 217, 223,                            his inexhaustible stores of know

    225, 226                                                     ledge, ii. 64 ; the Duke's next-door
                                                                 neighbour at Campden Hill, ii. 71 ;
Londonderry, Lord, i. 367                                        and Tennyson, ii. 571 ; his death,
Longfellow, ii. 145, 344
                                                                 ii. 572
Longfield, ii. 356, 358
                                                              MacColl, Canon, letter to the Duchess
Longman's Magazine, ii. 522
Lome, Marquis of, marries Princess                            MaocfdoAnraglydl,l,  ii.
Louise, ii. 295 ; Governor-General                                                 of    587  Kenneth,
                                                                                                        i. 18
                                                                                        Inch
                                                              Macdonalds, sept of the, i. 130, 131
of Canada, ii. 344                                            Macdougall, Colonel, 42nd High

Louis     PXXhVViliIIp.I,pI.e,i.,   King,  i.  304,  305

Louis                              305                           landers, i. 200
Louis                              i. 67
Louise, H.R.H. Princess, marries                              Macharioch, Campbeltown, ii. 244
                                                              Mackenzie, Sir Kenneth, ii. 339
                                                              Maoliver, Mr., Sir Colin Campbell's
   Marquis of Lome, ii. 295                                      father, ii. 84
Low Countries, i. 5
Lowe, Robert, ii. 435
                                                           I Macmillan's Magazine, ii. 186
Lucknow, i. 83 ; relief of, i. 84, 92                         Macnab, Dr., i. 226

Lucretius, ii. 543                                            McDiarmid, shop-keeper at Bones-

Lugano, i. 217                                                   san, i. 351, 352
                                                              McNeill of Colonsay, Archibald,
Lushington, Professor, 315
Lyell,    Sir Charles, i. 154,                                   ii. 549
                                                156, 349,     McNeill, Duncan,
    354,  401, 402, 577, 578 ; '               Principles  j     Colonsay, Lord         afterwards Baron
                                                                                        Advocate of Scot
of Geology,' i. 403 ; the great                                  land and Lord President of the
teacher of uniformitarianism, i.

579, 580 ; the Duke's correspon                                  Court of Session, i. 268
dence on Organic Evolution with,                              M'Neill, Emma, Lady, i. 55
ii. 482-487 ; ' Antiquity of Man,'                            M'Neill, Sir John, i. 55, 567

ii. 484 ; on the Duke's geology                               Macquarrie, Governor of New South
lecture, ii. 509                                                 Wales, i. 229

Lyell, Lady, i. 402, 404, 577                                 Macquarrie, Colonel, Scots Greys (son
Lyndhurst, Lord, i. 150, 280; the                                of above), i. 229

Ryland case, i. 314, 315, ii. 13;                             Macquarrie river, i. 229

624 INDEX

Magadino, i. 217-219                                        Meerut, mutiny of Bengal regiments
Mahdi, the, ii. 389                                         at, ii. 80
Mahon, Lady, i. 402                                         Mehemet Taki Khan, the Bakhtiyari
Mahon,     L'oHrdist(oafrtyerowfarEdnsglaEnadr,l'  Stan        chieftain, ii. 461
   hope),                                            i. 8,  Melbourne, Lord, Queen Victoria's

    9, 277, 401, 402                                           first Prime Minister, i. 112, 148-
Malakoff, the, i. 576, 585
                                                            151, 157-160, 269, 362
Malmesbury, Lord, Minister for
   Foreign Affairs in Derby's Ad                            Menschikoff, Prince, i. 444
   ministration, ii. 139-141, 147, 223,                     Mentone, ii. 177

                                                            Mesmerism, i. 328-331

    239                                                     Mesolonghi, i. 254
                                                            Messina, i. 200
Malta, i. 244 ; palaces of the Knights                      Metternich, Prince,  Italy  is ' nothing
   of, i. 200
                                                            but a geographical expression,' i.
Mamelon, capture of the, i. 561
Mamore farm, i. 16                                          212 ; Austria governed by, i. 437
Manchester School, the, ii. 28, 70, 553                     Michael Angelo, his group of figures
Manners, Lord John, ii. 199                                 on the tomb of the Medici, i.
Manning, Cardinal, i. 402
Mantua and Montferrat, Prince of,                           204

   presents the Duke with Mantuan                           Middleton, George, Secretary of the
    Medal, ii. 383                                          Scottish Society of Literature and
Marathon, i. 249                                            Art, ii. 592
Maree, Loch, ii. 339
                                                            Milan, i.  214      Indian, ii. 270
Marie Antoinette, i. 189                                    Military   Reform,
Maritime capture, changes in the
                                                            Mill, John Stuart, ii. 190
   laws of, ii. 46, 50                                      Miller,   Hugh, i. 356-359, ii. 184;
Markham, General, i. 586                                       ' The  Old Red Sandstone,' i. 357 ;
Marlborough, John Churchill, first                             ' The   Footprints of the Creator,'

                                                            i. 580

   Duke of, i. 5                                            Milliship, his portrait of Joan, Duchess
Marlborough, John Winston Spencer                           of Argyll, i. 53
                                                            Milman, Dean, i. 280, ii. 58
   Churchill, seventh Duke of, ii. 302,                     Milnes, Monckton (Lord Houghton),

    305                                                     i. 401

Marsh tit, i. 70                                            Modena, i. 258
Mary, Queen of Scots, i. 12, 13, 185                        Molesworth, Sir William, Board of
Maskelyne, Professor Story, his sym                         Works in Aberdeen Ministry, i.
                                                            381 ; his habit of taking notes, i.
   pathetic letter to the Duchess of                           460 ; death of, i. 590
   Argyll, ii. 586                                          Moncrieff, Lord, Lord Advocate for
Mason, Confederate Envoy on board                              Scotland, i. 174, ii. 239, 240j
   the Trent, ii. 178                                       Moniteur, Le, ii. 107
Mathematical faculties, i. 257                              Monotheism, ii. 528
Maule, Fox, vide Panmure                                    Montalembert, ' Monks of the West,'
Maurice, Rev. F. D., i. 398-400                             i. 321
Mavrocordato, Speaker or President
   of the Greek Assembly, i. 250,

    251                                                     Mont Blanc, i. 191, 220

Maxwell, Sir W., ii. 543                                    Monteagle, Lord, i. 153, ii. 159

Maynooth College, i. 461                                    Monza, i. 216
Mayo, Lord, Viceroy of India, ii. 270 ;
                                                            Moore, Mr., his motion of censure
   assassinated, ii. 275 ; the Duke's                       on the enlistment trouble with
   letters to, ii. 272-274, 276, 280, 281                   America, ii. 51, 52
Mechanics, animal, i. 76, 77                                Morea, the, i. 245, 246
Mechanic's Magazine, i. 69                                  Morley, John, ii. 409, 424 ; great
Mediterranean Sea, its intense blue,
   i. 192 ; its fish, i. 200 ; a canal to                      apostle and prophet of the Parnel-
   join the Red Sea and, i. 568                             lite party, ii. 420
                                                            Morning Post, ii. 476

                                                               INDEX                                                                      625

Morpeth, Lord, afterwards Earl of                                        tyranny,'                          438 his natural son,
   Carlisle, q.v.                                                                              i. i.
Morvern, i. 283                                                          NaWpoalleeownskiI,II.,     i.

                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                            597         343  distrust
                                                                                                                 304,        ;
                                                                                                                                  i.
Mosquito     J.PrLo.t,ecitio. ra5t7e3,     ii. 47, 48                    of, 390 and Austria,                                             496,
Motley,                                     his letter                       i.                ;

                                        ;                      to        ii. 137, 138; the coup d'etat of

     the Duke, ii. 172, 175, 191, 198 ;                                  December, 1851.                                344-346; his
     the Duke's letters to, ii. 169, 177,                                                                      i.
                                                                                                                      i. i. i.

                                                                                                                                  ;;
                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                ;
                                                                         schemes in the Crimea, 542 the

    181, 182,     '1d92is,ta2n0c3es     stuck  on              end,'     Duke's description of, 546 and
Mountains,                                                               the peace negotiations, 552-555,

     i. 137                                                              583, 589, 593, 596, 598, 599, ii.
Muir, Sir William, Lieutenant-Gover-
   nor, India, 287                                                    J  his idea of a canal to join the
     i.                                                                  Mediterranean and Red Seas,
          i.                                                                                                                 i.
                                                                                                                                       i. i.
                       ;
                       ; i.

                         ii.

                                                            ;
                                                          i.
Mulberry-trees on Lombardy Plain,                                        568 distrusts Walewski,                                          597,
                                                                         ;;;
       211 598 France has no hatreds,'                                      '
Mull, Isle of, 228, 283, 286 beauties
                                                                                 ;
                                                                                     ;
     of, 229 fossil leaf-beds, 349-                                      598 and the Paris Conference,
                                                                         ii. 22-24 Orsini's attempt on,
     353, 572 education in, ii. 310, 311                                 ii. 107 Cobden and the com
                                                                      !

Muller, Professor Max, his corre                                         mercial treaty, ii. 153, 154 pro
                                                                                                                                   ;

     spondence with the Duke, ii. 271,                                   poses a Congress to settle Polish
     295, 297, 527-541 his Hibbert
                          ;                                              question, ii. 214
                                ;

                                       i.
     Lectures, ii. 530 his Glasgow lec                                   Napoleon, Prince, Plon-plon,'                                    552
                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                 i.

     tures, ii. 537                                                      National Defence, Royal Commission
Murchison, Sir Roderick, 154, 156,
                                                                         on, ii. 163
                                                                         National Liberal Union meeting at
     345, 349, 577
Murray, Charles, British Minister,
                                                                         Manchester, the Duke's speech v.
     Persia, ii. 65                                                      Home Rule at, ii. 465
Murray, Sir George, Duke of Wel
                                                                         National Review, ii. 575
                                                                         Natural history, 74-83 the Duke's
   lington's Quartermaster-General in                                         Diary,' ii. 514
   Peninsular War, 505
Murray, John, 30                                                         Natural selection, 491-493, 496
                      i.                                                 '
                             i.                                                                  i. i.
                                                                                                            i.
Murray, Sir John, of the Challenger
                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                         Navarino, Battle of, 440
     Expedition, the Duke's correspon Naville, Mr., the Egyptologist, his
     dence with, ii. 502-504, 509-51 1,516-                              letter to the Duke, ii. 480
                                                                         Negro slavery in America, ii. 54, 55
     519 and the annexation of Christ
       ;

     mas Island, ii. 513 his sympa                                       Nelson, 250 and Lady Hamilton,
     thetic letter to the Duchess of '; ; ; ;                            '
                                                                             i.13

     Argyll, ii. 586                                                                  i.
                                                                                               i.

                                                                                                         ;
                                                                         Nesselrode, 592
                                                                         New British Constitution and its
Muscat and Zanzibar, ii. 277-280
Mutiny Act,
                  i.  7                                                  Master Builders,' ii. 418
                               ;
Mutiny, Indian, ii. 78, 80, 82, 83, 86, Newcastle, Duke of, Colonial Secre
                                                                         tary in Aberdeen's Administration,
     92, 99, 100, 103 due to genuine
     religious panic, ii. 81
                                                                         380 supports peace,                                 ;            456
                                                                         ' i. i.                                                              i. i. ; ; ; ;
                                                                                        ;;                                     i.
                                                                         Russell's demand, 508 his de
na KeaL Loch, 287, 288                                                                                      '),(' s i.
                      i.                                                 spatch of officers to the Crimea,

Napier, Macvey, editor Edinburgh                                         515 offers to resign,                               i. i. i. i.  517

     Review, 310                                                         the obvious victim,'                                             519
              i.

Naples,   i.     197 misgovernment of,                                   Russell's unfair speech,                                         520
                      ;

     ii. 52, 53                                                          hardship of his position,                                        521,

Napoleon Bonaparte, first Consul,                                        ii. 78 the Duke opinion of,
       33 seventh Duke of Argyll's                                       ;

                                                                            i. ;

                                                                                   ;
                                                                                           ;
i. i.description of, 34, 35 his rage,;;                                  531, 532 his work during Crimean
        36 orders arrest of all English                                  War, 532 a great organizer,
                      ;                                                  533 succeeded by Panmure, ibid.
     men in France, 40 his victory                                       Newman, Cardinal                               Grammar of
     at Bridge of Lodi, 259 at Wateri. i. i.
                                                                         Assent Apologia                                the Duke's
                                                                             :

     loo, 260 his intolerablei.                                          correspondence with, ii. 267, 268                                     ;
                                                                                                              40
      VOL. II.

626 INDEX

   the human intellect a ' universal       Opie, his portrait of Lady Charlotte
   solvent,' ii. 434                          Campbell, i. 29
                                           Orchids, their cultivation introduced
Newton, discovers law of gravitation,         by Duke of Devonshire, i. 339
   i. 96                                   Organic Evolution, ii. 481; the Duke's

Ney, Marshal, i. 44                           correspondence with Lyell about,
Nicaraguan question, ii. 47
Nice, annexed by France, ii. 146 ;         '   ii. 482-487                  Cross-examined,'
                                              Organic Evolution
   the Duke at, ii. 179                       ii. 492, 498
Nicholas, Emperor of Russia, i. 339 ;      Oriental culture, ancient, ii. 271
                                           Orissa Works, ii. 282
   his visit to England in 1844, i. 435-   Orloff, Prince, ii. 22, 23
   437, 440 ; the very ideal of a great
   monarch, i. 437 ; his Memorandum        Ornithology, the Duke's study of,
   as to Turkey, i. 442, ii. 27 ; and         ii. 336-341, 560-569
   France's Holy Places claim, i. 443,     Orsini, ii. 107
   444 ; his armies cross the Pruth,
                                           Oscar I., King of Sweden, i. 592
   i. 459 ; his overbearing pride, i. 468  Osprey, ii. 505
Niebuhr, i. 183, 195                       Otho, King of Greece, i. 250
Nightingale, notes of the, ii. 337         Oudh, i. 587
Nikolaieff, Russian arsenal, i. 590,       ' Our Responsibilities for Turkey,'
                                              ii. 325, 479
   ii. 23                                  Outram, Sir James,
                                           Owoefn,LimSibr s,R' ich' aOrnd,   ii'.   83
Nineteenth Century, the Duke's articles                                     the
   in, ii. 491, 494, 520                                                           On the Nature
                                                                                    Homologies of
Nordenskiold, Professor, ii. 520              the Vertebrate Skeleton,' i. 76, 411,
Norfolk, Duke and Duchess of, i. 271          581 ; Curator of the Hunterian
North, Lord, and Fox coalition, i. 375        Museum, i. 408-411 ; his lectures,
Northallerton, Yorkshire, i. 99               i. 408, 409, 573, 581 ; the * op
Northbrook, Lord, Viceroy of India,
                                              posable digit,' i. 410 ; brachiopods,
   ii. 276 ; his India policy, ii. 288-       ibid. ; his reference to the Duke's
   292 ; the army purchase system,
   ii. 300 ; the Duke's letters to, ii.       lecture on geology, ii. 509 ; the
                                              Duke's correspondence with, ii.
   276, 277, 282-284, 287, 289; his
   letter to the Duke, ii. 290                501, 502
Northcote, Sir Stafford, ii. 289
Northumberland, Duke and Duchess           Owl, long-eared, ii. 339, 340; large
                                              snowy, ii. 508 ; little, ii. 565
   of, ii. 246                             Oxford, the Duke receives honorary
North - Western Provinces, India,             degree of D.C.L. at, ii. 267
                                           Oxford Movement, i. 88, 103, 104,
   Rent and Revenues Acts for, ii. 284
Nut-hatches, the Duke attempts to             164, 309, 313

   introduce them in Argyllshire, ii.

    564

                                           Padua, i. 208

Oaks, in England, i. 103                   Paestum, Temple of, i. 199
O'Connell, Daniel, i. 154, 236, ii. 552 ;  Paget, Lord, afterwards Marquis of

   ' that scorpion Stanley,' ii. 426          Anglesey, q.v.
O'Connell, Daniel, son of above, ii.       Painting, one of the Duke's favourite
                                              recreations, ii. 563
433

O'Connor, Fergus, i. 303                   Palaeontology and geology, ii. 509-
Olive-trees, i. 195
                                              512

Olney, i. 358     --evictions,  ii.  462   Pal'gGraovldee, n  Professor,           ii.   561,   570 ;
Olphert estates                                                Treasury,'           ii.   577  ; the
                                              Duke's correspondence with, ii.
Olympus, the ranges of, i. 253, 254
Omar Pasha, i. 516                            576

Ondin?, schooner yacht, i. 295, 296        PaU MaU Gazette, ii. 406, 407
O'Nirl, Miss                               Palmer, Sir
   Bee,,her), as  '   (afterwards    Lady     borne), ii.     Roundell             ;(E' aArl   of Sel-
                     Juliet,' i. 53                           208, 210                        Defence

                                          INDEX                                                627

of the Church of      E' nBgulardnedn,'s  ii. 320 :   ii. 74 ; and Reform, ii. 76-78, 94-
and the Duke's                             of Be
                                                      97, 134 ; loyal to his colleagues,
lief,' ii. 569, 570; the Duke's                       ii. 77 ; eager for new Divorce Law,
                                                      ii. 79 ; appoints Sir Colin Campbell
letters to, ii. 262, 314. 319, 320, 390

Palmerston, Lord, his speech on the                   Commander-in-Chief of army in
Don Pacifico affair, i. 323 ; and                     India, ii. 83 ; the East India Com
                                                      pany, ii. 86 ; Aberdeen's irrita
Bunsen, i. 333 ; dismissed bv                         tion, ii. 91 ; his India Bill, ii. 94,
Russell, i. 346-348 ; his ' tit for tat
with John Russell,' i. 360 ; Home
Secretary in Aberdeen's Cabinet,                      95, 98, 103, 104 ; his Government
i. 378 ; his measures for national                    defeated on Conspiracy Bill, ii.
                                                      108, 109 ; and Disraeli's India Bill,
                                                      ii. 112 ; his second Ministry, ii.
defence, i. 390 ; Gladstone's income-                 137-168 ; the Italian question, ii.

tax scheme, i. 432 ; his interven

tion in     Egypt and Syria,              i. 441      146 ; the increasing expenditure,
' that     sad inheritance of              trium      ii. 163 ; Edinburgh banquet to,

phant wrong,' i. 444 ; his acqui                      ii. 195, 196 ; on the Schleswig-
escence in the Crimean War, i. 455-
                                                      Holstein question, ii. 219 ; death
458 ; and Russell, i. 463, 508, 509,                  of, ii. 210 ; his letters to the Duke,

ii. 120 ; resigns upon Russell's Re                   i. 585, ii. 109, 113, 115 ; the Duke's
form Bill, i. 471-473 ; his war fore
                                                         letter to, ii. 117
cast,  i.  477 ; his  strong  protest,            i.  Panmure, Lord (Fox Maule), New
515 ;   '  But why    should   this be            ?
                                                         castle's successor in Colonial
i. 516 ; Prime Minister, i. 524                       Office, i. 533 ; calls  i.fo5r 43Lo;rd'
                                                      lan's explanations,                       Rag
and the Peelites, i. 529 ; forms a                                                             popu

Ministry, i. 530-550 ; secession of                   lar saviour of the army,' i. 545 ;
Graham, Gladstone, and Herbert,                       and General Simpson's resigna
i. 537 ; ' popular saviour of the                     tion, i. 584, 585 ; defends his war
                                                         estimates, ii. 72
army,' i. 545 ; his difficulties :                    Paper Duties Bill, the Duke's speech
Gladstone's attitude, i. 556-562 ;
                                                         for, ii. 159 ; rejected by House of
on General Simpson's require                          Lords, ii. 162
ments, i. 567 ; opposes the canal
scheme, i. 568, 570 ; Aberdeen and,                   Papineau, the Canadian rebel, ii. 562

i. 571 ; on command of the army                       Paris, i. 189 ; Conference of, ii. 20-
in the Crimea, i. 585 ; quarrel                       24 ; Treaty of, ii. 24-27, 325, 326,

between Stratford and Sultan of                       329

Turkey, i. 588 ; Russia not yet                       Parke, Baron (Lord Wensleydale),
' half beaten enough,' i. 589 ;                          ii. 11, 12, 14-16

tries his old work of fusion, i. 590 ;
and the dispute with America,                         Parnell, C. S., ii. 346, 355, 400, 407,
i. 591 ; appoints the Duke Post
master-General, i. 592, 593 ; ap                          443, 444

points Labouchere Colonial Secre                      Parnellite party, the, ii. 404-406, 420
tary, i. 594 ; against Austria's                      Parnes range, i. 246, 247, 249
peace proposals, i. 597, 600, ii.                     Parry, Sir Edward, i. 84
9, 21 ; in favour of life peerages,                   Parthenon, Athens, i. 247, 248
ii. 10-12, 14, 20 ; and the Paris                     Paterson, Campbell, i. 286, 287
                                                      Patras, Gulf of, i. 253
Conference, ii. 22-24 ; the Nicar-                    Patronage in Church of Scotland,

aguan question, ii. 47, 48 ; his                        i. 164-169, 173 ; Bill for abolition
easy good-humour, ii. 49 ; his
growing popularity, ii. 50 ; and                         of, ii. 312-317
the Bessarabian frontier, ii. 52 ;                    Patronage Act, Queen Anne's, i. 173,

and Naples, ii. 52, 53 ; the address                      174, 177
to Mrs. Stowe, ii. 58 ; the war with
                                                      Paulett, Lord George, i. 499
Persia, ii. 65 ; resigns on the Canton                Peel, Sir Robert, i. 69, 178, 276, 278,
River affair, ii. 70 ; his triumph,
                                                         280, 370, 377 ; organizing the Con
                                                         servative party, i. 148 ; his speeches

                                                                                 40--2

628 INDEX

   heavy artillery, i. 153 ; O'Connell                                                             i.  148 ;  'hOish,mmagyncifoicuennttry  invective,
   on, i. 154 ; his campaign v. Mel                                                                i.  153 ;                                !' i. 261
                                                                                                                                                         ;

   bourne's Government, i. 157 ;                                                                   j tries to rally Europe, i. 334 ; Chan
                                                                                                         cellor of the Exchequer, i. 375,
   changes his Corn Laws opinion,                                                                  376 ; and the income-tax, i. 424,
   i. 159 ; his majority in the 1841
   General Election, i. 160 ; on Wel                                                               432, 433 ; fears Russia, i. 438 ; his

   lington, i. 180 ; at Taymouth,                                                                  great speech for abolition of

   i. 186 ; determined to prosecute                                                                      slavery, ii. 55
   O'Connell, i. 236 ; the Duke's alle
   giance, i. 265 ; his Tariff Reform,                                                             I Pius IX., Pope, ii. 233
   i. 269, 270, 274, ii. 393 ; the splen                                                             Playfair, Lord, ii. 324 ; the Duke's
                                                                                                   letter on Free Trade to, ii. 554
   did political services of, i. 271 ;                                                             Plombieres, Secret
   and the potato disease, i. 272, 273 ;                                                           * Poems ' by the          DTurkeeaty'  of,  ii. 146
   aWtuttedalelci,nksgi.to'2n7o4n,p;ri.aDi2sis7er5saeh; liihs'sisres'suvopelupntooermtaeotrutsis,  Victoria,'                             To    Queen
                                                                                                   ' Song of                   556 ; ' Glenahira,'
                                                                                                                             the Water-Ousel,' ii.  589  ;
                                                                                                   'Selborne,' 570; 'To                             566  ;
                                                                                                   573; extracts from:
   i. 277, 281 ; his Parliamentary                                                                                            'TToennTyrsuotnh,,''
   Loan Fund, i. 285, 286, 290;                                                                    ii. 577 ; a 'Reply' to William
                                                                                                   Watson, ii. 578; 'An Island
   Ellesmere's support of, i. 306 ;                                                                Home,' ii. 579
        death, i. 322 ;  h3is23la; stantrib' uatlel-
   his  Palmerston, i.                                                                             Polish question, i. 444, 558, 583,
   to

   round man,' i. 362; and the income-                                                                ii. 213-215
   tax, i. 424, 432, 433 ; his eloquence,                                                          Political economy, i. 227

   ii. 552                                                                                         Pompeii, i. 197
Peelites, the, i. 298, 341, 342, 362,
                                                                                                   Pope, Alexander, his couplet on
   370, 374, 380 ; their title of Liberal                                                             John, second Duke of Argyll, i. 4 ;
   Conservatives, i. 365 ; and Pal                                                                 his inevitable-seeming rhymes, ii.

   merston, i. 529-539                                                                             576

Peerages, life, ii. 10-20                                                                          Porridge, and Scotland, ii. 126, 127
Peiho River, ii. 137                                                                               Portkill farmhouse, i. 55, 57
Pekin, ii. 150                                                                                     Portsmouth, Lord, ii. 264, 357
                                                                                                   Posting inns, i. 99
Pelissier, General, i. 560

Peloponnesus, the, i. 246, 247, 249                                                                Postmaster-General, the Duke ap
Pentelicus, Mount, i. 248                                                                          pointed, i. 592, 593, ii. 3-8

Perceval, Spencer, i. 378                                                                          Potato disease, i. 270, 271
Persia, war with, ii. 65                                                                           Poulton, Professor, of Oxford, ii. 493
Persia, Shah of, ii. 65
                                                                                                   Power, O'Connor, ii. 350-352
                                                                                                   Prayer-Book services, English, i. 103
Persigny, Count de, French Ambas                                                                   Prayers and liturgies, i. 127, 128
   sador, i. 593, 594, ii. 107                                                                     Prendergast, Mr., on the Irish, ii. 427

Perugia, i. 202                                                                                    P' rPersebsybtyetreiaryn  Church, ii. 452-454
Petit Trianon, the, i. 190                                                                                                   Examined : An Essay,
Petrel, stormy, ii. 508
Philosophical or Benthamite Radi                                                                   Critical and Historical, on the

'   cals, i. 381      Belief,'  ii.                                                                Ecclesiastical History of Scotland
   Philosophy     of                                                                                  since the Reformation,' i. 310
                                     545,  547,                                                    Presbytery of Dumbarton, and of

   548

Physics and chemistry, ii. 520                                                                     Kintyre, their tributes to the Duke,
Piraeus, harbour of the, i. 246
                                                                                                   ii. 589

Pisa, i. 206, 207          George III.'s                                                           Prescott, historian of Ferdinand and
Pitt, William, i. 8;                                                                               Isabella, i. 412

   favourite Minister, i. 64 ; one of                                                              Pretender, the, lands in Scotland,
   the earliest Reformers, i. 65 ; his
                                                                                                   i. 6

   fear of Jacobinism, i. 67 ; the                                                                 Privateering, ii. 46
                                                                                                   Privy Seal, the Duke appointed Lord,
   Duke's admiration of his oratory,                                                                  in Palmerston's second Ministry,
   i. 122 ; his determined enemy Fox,

                                                INDEX                                         629

   ii. 137 ; in Gladstone's second, ii.              Revelation, ii. 549
   348-354 ; resigns on Irish Land                   Revue Contemporaine, ii. 154
   Bill, ii. 377                                     Rheinwald, the, i. 260
Protection and Protectionists, i. 159,               Rhine, the, i. 221, 260

161, 270-274, 276, 278, 281, 342, Rhone, the, i. 191, 219

   361, 368, 399, ii. 50, 457, 553                   Ricardo, i. 159, ii. 553
Prussia, the rise of, i. 335 ; the Duke's            Richmond, Duke of, ii. 298 ; his

   sympathies on the side of, in the                    Agricultural Commission, ii. 367
   Franco-Prussian War, ii. 293                      Riddell, Sir James, ii. 561, 562
Psalms, quoted, i. 108, 231                          Rifle-shooting match at Locarno,
Punch, i. 460                                        i. 218

Punjab, ii. 99-101 ; Tenancy Act,                    Rob Roy, his stronghold at Inverary,
   ii. 280, 281                                         ii. 61, 62

Puseyism, i. 104                                     Robertson, Dr., i. 33, 37-45, 54, 84,

Quail, ii. 507                                           117
                                                     Robertson, Dr., factor at Balmoral,

Quarries (Sebastopol),              the,        cap     ii. 186
   tured, i. 561                                     Roebuck, Mr., i. 516, ii. 78, 132

Quarterly Review, i. 310, 311, ii. 148               Rogers, Samuel, i. 393-395 ; and
                                                        Dundas, i. 395
Racine, ' Phedre,' i. 39
Radicals, Philosophical or Bentha                    Rokeby, General, i. 585
                                                     Rolfe, Baron, afterwards Lord Cran-

   mite, i. 381                                         worth, q.v.
Raffles, Sir Stamford, i. 289                        Roller (bird), ii. 505

Raglan, Lord, i. 475, 499-504, 506,                  Rome, i. 193-195, 254-256, ii. 233
   600 ; his silence, i. 514 ; deficient             Romney, his portraits of Lady

   in organization, i. 516, 543 ; his                   Hamilton, i. 13

   mismanagement, i. 544 ; and death,                Rookery at Ardencaple, i. 72
    i. 545                                           Rose lathes, i. 84, 87
Railway policy in India, the Duke's,                 Rosebery, Lord, i. 150, ii. 466
   ii. 272-274                                       Rosneath, Dumbartonshire, i. 16,
Raised Beaches :Glaciation, ii. 514-520
Ramsay, Lord (afterwards Earl of                         115, 265, 266, 295, 298, 301, 304,
   Dalhousie), i. 298-300                               331, 587. ii. 341 ; Castle burnt,

                                                         i. 52

Reay, Lord, ii. 480                                  Ross of Mull, the, i. 287, 290
Redan, assault of the, i. 576, 585
Redistribution of Seats, ii. 231, 232 ;              IllRosse, Lord, i. 573

   Bill (1884), ii. 384-389                          Rossmore, Lord, i.
                                                     Roubilliac, his monument of John,

Red Sea, proposed canal to connect                      second Duke of Argyll, i. 4
   Mediterranean and, i. 568                         Rouher, M., ii. 153
                                                     Royal Humane Society, tribute to
Redstart, i. 71, 72
Redwing, H.M.S., i. 29                                  the Duke, ii. 591
Reed -wren, ii. 340                                  Royal National Lifeboat Institution.
Reform and Reform Bills, i. 63, 65,
                                                        tribute to the Duke, ii. 591
68, 69, 471-473, ii. 76, 77, 94, 121- Royal Scottish Geographical Society,
125, 151, 152, 230, 231, 234; the                    the Duke President of, ii. 513

Duke's speech (1867) on, ii. 237 ; Royal Society of Edinburgh, ii. 484 ;
   for Scotland, ii. 239-241                         the Duke's     presidential              a--dd'rTeswso,
Reformation in Scotland, i. 169-171,                 ii. 167 ; the  Duke's paper              Glacia

308-310            John,                             tGiolenns' --arnedadthtoe,  Agency   of
                   Law,'                                                         ii. 520
R' Reiedi,gnDro.f         i. 324
                          ii. 233,  236,  545,  546  Rudimentary organs, the Duke's cor
                                                     respondence with Sir William
Religious education, ii. 306-308
Rent and Revenue Acts for North-
West Provinces, India, ii. 284                       Flower on the prospective char-
                                                     | aoter of, ii. 488-490

630 INDEX

Rush, the Norfolk murderer, ii. 10                              ii. 244 ; on the Suspensory Bill.
Russell, C, ii. 356                                             ii. 245 ; his letters to the Duke,

Russell, Dr., i. 461                                            ii. 131, 171, 204 ; the Duke's letters

Russell, Lady, ii. 244                                             to, i. 465, ii. 201
Russell, Lord John (afterwards Earl                             Russia, ' was the Emperor Nicholas,'

   Russell), great charm of his char                               i. 437 ; declaras war, i. 451 ; Eng
acter, i. 265 ; leader of the Whigs,                            land's ante-Crimean War relations
i. 270 ; his manifesto in favour of                             with, i. 438-440 ; and Turkey, i.
                        Laws,                                   438-448, 467 ; France and England
repeal  porof uCdor'n  British       i. 273, 274 ;           I  v., i. 467 ; the Crimean War, i.
the '                                 aristocracy,
i. 279 ; offers office to the Duke,
                                                                435, ii. 25 {passim) ; accepts
                                                                Austria's ultimatum, ii. 8, 9 ;
i. 341, 342 ; dismisses Palmerston                              Treaty of Paris, ii. 13 ; and Poland,
from Foreign Office, i. 346, 347 ;
fall of his Government (1852), i.                               ii. 213-215; war with Turkey, ii.
360 ; his ' leadership,' i. 362 ; a new                         328 ; her Mission of Afghanistan,
Reform Bill, i. 363, 364; Lord                                  ii. 329, 330
Aberdeen, i. 365 ; in Aberdeen's Ryland case, the, i. 314-319, ii. 13
Cabinet, i. 378, 383, 384 ; impressed
bi.y42G6la:ds' tsounbed'suedincthoomueg-htaxwavrliiekwe,s',     Sabine, Colonel (afterwards Sir
i. 455-458 ; his Reform Bill, i. 471,                              Edward), President Royal Society.

                                                                    i. 577
473 ; withdrawn, i. 478 ; and Pal St. Andrew's University, the Duke
merston, i. 463, ii. 120 ; demands                              elected Chancellor of, i. 355 ;
Newcastle's dismissal, i. 508 ; medi
                                                                tribute to the Duke, ii. 588

tates resignation, i. 514 ; resigns,                            St. Angelo, Monte, i. 198
i. 517 ; his conduct to Newcastle, St. Arnaud, French Commander, i.
i. 520, 522, 523; fails to form a
                                                                475
Government, i. 524 ; the Vienna St. Francis, his tomb at Assisi, i. 202
Conference, i. 536, 547-549, ii. 29 ; St. Lawrence, Gulf of, ii. 212
appointed Colonial Secretary by St. Luke's Gospel, ii. 548
Palmerston, i. 539 ; his isolation, St. Margaret of Norway, Queen of
i. 550 ; and Reform, ii. 76, 151 ;                                 Scotland, i. 91
Disraeli's India Bill, ii. 113 ;                                St. Paul's Cathedral, Wellington's

his amendments accepted, ii. 119 ;                                 funeral at, i. 367
                                                                St. Peter's, Rome, i. 203, 204
drafting a Reform Bill with
Graham, ii. 123 ; at Knowsley, ii. Sage, Bishop, i. 309, 310
124 ; on Bright and Reform, ii.                                 Salamis, i. 246, 248, 249, 253
                                     Reform Bill,               Salerno, i. 198
131  1;3o3pp; os' etsheDegrrbeya'ts  body of the                Salisbury, Marquis of, Secretary        of
                                                                State for India in Disraeli's
ii.                                                             Ministry, ii. 289-292 ; the Duke's
working classes,' ii. 134 ; his
amendment to Derby's Bill, ii.
135 ; the Italian question, ii. 142-                            opinion of, ii. 290 ; and the Fran
146 ; his non-committal speech at                               chise and Redistribution Bills
Aberdeen, ii. 148 ; introduces Re                               (1884), ii. 384-389; his first Ad
form Bill (I860), ii. 152 ; the Ameri
can Civil War, ii. 171 ; on detention                           ministration (1885), ii. 393, 409 ;
                                                                congratulates the Duke on his
of Alabama, ii. 201, 209; Prime                                 anti-Home Rule speech at Glasgow,
Minister on Palmerston's death,
                                                                ii. 446 ; defeated 1892, in power
ii. 210 ; England's right to inter                              again 1895, ii. 466; and the
pose in Polish question, ii. 213 ;
and the Schleswig-Holstein ques                                 American massacres, ii. 477-479 :
                                                                Herbert Spencer and, ii. 494 ; the
tion, ii. 219-223 ; and Reform                                  annexation of Christmas Island,

again, ii. 230 ; resigns, ii. 232 ;                             ii. 513
announces intention of retiring Salo, silk factory at, i. 210
from public life, ii. 242 ; his illness, San Jacinto, U.S. sloop, ii. 178-181

                                                  INDEX                                                631

San Juan case, the, ii. 211                                  Seals at Tiree, i. 145, 146

San Stefano, Treaty of, i. 328, 329                          Sebastopol, Siege of, i. 250, 474, 475,
Sand, of Tiree, i. 139                                          478,488, 494, 496, 500-502, 504, 538,
Sandon, Lord (afterwards third Earl
   of Harrowby), i. 15C, 557. 558                            542, 548, 560, 561, 569, 574, 589 ;

Sardinia, i. 516, ii. 137 ; Treaty with,                     fall of, i. 576, 583, ii. 21, 29

                                                             Sedan, Battle of, ii. 298

   i. 522 ; its disarmament demanded                         Sedgwick, i. 154, 156, 345, 349
   by Austria, ii. 138
Sargent, Mrs., i. 403                                        ;'Selborne, Earl of (Sir Roundell
Sarpi, ' History of the Council of                              Palmer), ii. 208, 210 A Defence

   Trent,' ii. 572                                           of the Church of England,' ii. 320 ;
                                                             and the Duke's ' Burdens of Be
Saussure, M. de, i. 37, 40
                                                             lief,' ii. 569, 570 ; the Duke's letters
Savoy annexed by France, ii. 146
                                                             to, ii. 262, 314, 319, 320, 390

Scaligeri, their family tombs at                             Seville, i. 242, 243
   Verona, i. 213
                                                             Seward, Mr., ii. 180, 182 ; denounces
Scenery, English, i. 100 ; Scottish, i.
                                                                England's conduct during Ameri
   321                                                          can Civil War, ii. 212
                                                             Shaftesbury, Earl of, 98, 223, 266,
Schaffhausen, falls of the Rhine at,                         '
                                                                         ;

                                                                                        i.,
   i. 221                                                    277, 541 presented with a copy
                                                             of Uncle Tom's Cabin,* ii. 56
Schleswig-Holstein question, ii. 214-                                                                  ;
   224 ; the Duke's speech on, ii. 219-                                                                        ;
                                                             and Mrs. Stowe, ii. 58, 171 on
   222                                                       the Duke's speech in defence of
                                                             Northbrook, ii. 291
Schmidt, Dr., ii. 463

Science, the Duke's interest in, ii. 481 -                   Shell-sand of Tiree, 139i. i.
                                                             Shenstone, William, 358
   544                                                       Shere Ali, Amir of Afghanistan,

Scinde, ii. 99                                                                                         ii.

Sclopis, Count Frederic, an Alabama                          330-333
   arbiter, ii. 213
                                                             Shrike, great gray, ii. 505
                                                             Shrimps, luminous, ii. 464
Scoreaby, i. 84                                              Silk factory at Salo, 210i. i.            Com
Scotland, in the eighteenth century,                         Silver firs at Inveraray, 19 i.            566-
                                                             Simpson, General, 536, 545                i. i. ;
   i. 20-26 ; migration and emigration,
   i. 25; Church of, i. 88-91, 163;                             mander-in-Chief, Crimea,                     ;;
                                                                                                                     ;
   lay patronage in, i. 164-169, 173 ;                           569, 583 resigns, 584, 585
   the Veto Law, i. 165 ; Reformation
   in, i. 169-171 ; its clanship, ii. 85 ;                   Simpson, Sir James, 323, 578 his
                                                                      ;

                                                                                     i. i.

   and oatmeal porridge, ii. 126, 127 ;                      discovery of anaesthetics,                324
   Reform Bill for, ii. 239-241 ; Edu
   cation Bill for, ii. 301-312 ; Bill for                   an appreciation of, 326, 327 his
                                                                  '
                                                                             i.

                                                                                      '
                                                                                            i.

                                                                                                i. i.
                                                             brain-case, 357

   Abolition of Church Patronage in,                         Sinope, massacre of, 467
   ii. 312-317 ; Disestablishment of                         Sirmio, promontory of, 210
               of, ii. 319, 450-456                          Skate, electric organs of the, ii. 494,
'   Church                                 It     Is,'
   Scotland     as It Was, and as                       ii.  495

   392, 456                                                  Skeat, Dictionary,' ii. 535
Scott, Sir Walter, ' Heart of Mid                                 i. '
                                                                                             i.
   lothian,' i. 5, 266 ; ' Waverlev                          Skerryvore Lighthouse, 140-147, 290

   Novels,' i. 30 ; ' The Lord of the                        Skye, 295
   Isles,' i. 289 ; the great revealer                       Slavery, negro, in America, ii. 54, 55
   o' fRotbhe   Hebrides                                     Slave-trade in Zanzibar, its suppres
               Roy,' ii.  60s-c6e3ne;ry4,     i.  321 ;
                                           Old                  sion, ii. 279, 280
                                                  Mor
                                                             Slidel, a confederate envoy on board
   tality,' ii. 196                                             the Trent, ii. 178
Scottish Geographical Society, the
                                                             Smith, Adam, 227
                                                             Smith, Goldwin, ii. 203
                                                             Smith of Jordanhill, James, 52-54,
   Duke's lecture to, ii. 463 ; tribute                               i.
   to the Duke, ii. 593                                                             i.

Scottish Society of Literature and                                                          ;
   Art, tribute to the Duke, ii. 592
                                                                                             i.
                                                             157, 349-352, 576, 577 founder of

                                                             the Glacial Theory, 350

632 INDEX

Smith,    R' eflavs.heSsydonfesyi,leni.ce3,'95i.;   Macau-  Starlings, i. 99 ; the Duke tries to
   lay's                                           404         acclimatize American, ii. 505, 506

Smith, Vernon, President Board of                           State, Church and, ii. 312-321
Control, ii. 102, 104 ; on Disraeli's                       Stevenson, Alan, engineer of the
India Bill, ii. 112, 113                                    Skerry vore Lighthouse, i. 134, 140-
Smith, W. Bosworth, ii. 448, 454 ;
                                                            147, 290
                                                            Stevenson, R. Louis, i. 134
his sympathetic letter to the
Duchess of Argyll, ii. 587                                  Stewart, Dugald, i. 224
Smith's Sound, ii. 519                                      Stewart, Messrs., managers of the
                                                               Kintyre estate, i. 131
Snipe at Tiree, ii. 508                                     Stewart of Allanbank, Sir James, i.
Somerset, Fitzroy, vide Raglan, Lord
Somerville, Mrs., i. 255-257                                114, ii. 561, 562

Sorrento, i. 198                                            Stewart, Lady, i. 114                 Sir
Soudan, the, Gordon's death, ii. 389-                       Stewart, General the Hon.
                                                            Patrick, Governor of Malta, i. 245
393                                                         Stint (bird) at Tiree, ii. 508
                                                            Stirling, of Manchester, i. 98
Southey, i. 129                                             Stoneleigh Abbey, deer-park
Spencer, Herbert, i. 401 ; on natural
   selection, ii. 492 ; and Lord Salis                                                            of, i.

bury, ii. 494 ; principles of Biology :                         102
System of synthetic philosophy, his
correspondence with the Duke, ii.                           Storks, at Basle, i. 221 ; their habits
                                                            at the pairing season, ii. 504
                                                            Stormy petrel, ii. 508
496-499                                                             AMmrse.ricBaenecshceurl,pto' rU,nci.le19T4,om25's4

Spencer, Lord, ii. 254, 353, 428-430 ;                      Story,
   letter to the Duchess of Argyll, ii.                     Stowe,
                                                            Cabin,' her visit to England, ii.
    585                                                     55-64 ; the Duke's description of,
Spenser, ' Faerie Queene,' ii. 429                          ii. 56-58 ; ' Life of,' ii. 57 ; pre
Splugcn Pass, i. 259                                        sentation of address to, ii. 58 ;
Spurgeon, Mr., on Home Rule, ii.
                                                            and     Du'cAhesKs eoyf  Sutherland,  ii. 58,
414                                                         195;                      to Uncle    Tom's

Squirrels at Inveraray, ii. 506                             Cabin,' ii. 59 ; at Inveraray, visits
StaeL Madame de, i.
Staempfli, Monsieur   3J.7,-41an  Alabama                   Rob Roy's stronghold, ii. 60-64 ;
                                                               and Lord Shaftesbury, ii. 171
arbiter, ii. 213                                            Stratford de Redeliffe, Lord, i. 443,

Staffa, i. 288-290                                          444, 450-453 ; his squabble with
Stair, Earl of, ii. 450
Stanfield, R.A., C, i. 330                                  Sultan of Turkey, i. 588
Stanhope, Earl (Lord Mahon), ' His                          Stromboli, i. 200
                                                            Stuart, Lord Dudley, i. 558
   tory of England,' i. 8, 9, 277, 401,                     Suffrage, Household, i. 235, 236

402                                                         Sumner, Charles, leader of the Aboli

Stanhope, Lady Wilhelmina (after                            tionists in American Senate, i. 411.
   wards Lady Dalmeny, then                                    412, ii. 182, 203, 207, 572
   Duchess of Cleveland), i. 150                            Sumter, Fort, ii. 170
Stanley, Dean, ' Life and Letters of                        Sundridge, Baron, the Argylls' formal
                                                            title in House of Lords, i. 27, 301
   Dr. Arnold,' i. 183, 332; at In-
verary, ii. 252 ; his sympathetic
historical mind, ii. 452                                    Sunium, Cape of, i. 246
                                                            Suspensory Bill (1868), the Duke's
Stanley, Lady Augusta, ii. 452                                 speech for, ii. 243-245
Stanley, Lord, i. 153, 157, 276, 277,                       Sutherland, Duchess of, Mistress of

341,* 345, 552 ; Colonial Secretary                         the Robes, i. 149, 185, 223, 236.
under Palmerston, i. 590 ; Foreign                          264, 295-297, 304, 319, 320, 355,
   Secretary under Derby, ii. 211
Stanley, Montague, artist, i. 181                           479; and Mrs. Stowe, ii. 58, 59,
Stanley, Sir Henry M., ii. 513                              195 ; death, ii. 246
Stanmore, Lord (Hon. Arthur Gor
                                                            Sutherland, George Granville, first
   don), i. 181, 373, 427                                   Duke of, i. 237

                                  INDEX                    633

Sutherland, George Granville, second                         Thornton, Mr. T. H., head of thePublio
   Duke of, i. 223, 236, 263, 264, 295,                          Works Department, India, ii. 274
   355 ; purchases Clieveden, i. 419
                                                              Thucydides, i. 200, ii. 311
Sweden, proposed treaty with, i. 563,                      ! Ticino, Canton of, i. 218, 219

    564, 570, 591, 592                                        Tientsin, ii. 147
                                                           i Times, The, i. 238, 344, 384, 536,
Switzerland, i. 260
Syra, island of, i. 245                                          588, ii. 135, 205, 330, 393, 497 ;
                                                                the Duke's letters to, on Italy,
Syracuse, i. 200                                                 ii. 138 ; on Home Rule, ii. 411-416
                                                             Tiree Island, i. 133-147; shell-sand
Table-turning, i. 405, 406                                       of, i. 139 ; great seals of, i. 145,
Taganrog taken by Russia from                                    146 ; famine and emigration, i.
                                                                 285, 286 ; scenery of, i. 321 ; wild
Turkey, i. 438                                                  fowl at, ii. 508
Tagus River, i. 241                                          Titmice, i. 70
                                                             Tivoli, i. 195
Talleyrand, i. 34                                            Tocqueville, Alexis de, i. 402
Tangiers, i. 244                                             Todleben, General, i. 494
Tarbert, Loch, ii. 514                                       Tone, Wolfe, i. 32, ii. 410
                                                             Tractarian Movement, Oxford, i. 184
Taunton, Lord. See Labouchere,                               Tree-creeper (bird), ii. 507
                                                             Trent affair, the, ii. 178-182
Henry                                                        Trentham, i. 236
Taunton, Lady Mary (nee Howard),                             Trevelyan, Sir George, ii. 362, 409,
   i. 594                                                         410, 448
Tay River, i. 185                                            Trinity House, Elder Brethren of
Taymouth Castle, i. 185-187                                      the, tribute to the Duke, ii. 590
                                                             Tron Church, Glasgow, i. 89
Tchernaya, Russian defeat at the,                            Turin, Treaty of, ii. 146
                                                             Turkey, and Russia, i. 438-448 ; in
i. 569                                                           tegrity and independence of, i. 441,
                                                                 ii. 21 ; the Emperor Nicholas'
Temple, Sir Richard, ii. 274, 291                                Memorandum, i. 442 ; the con
Tenant Right in Ireland, ii. 255-                                cession to Russia, i. 467 ; and
                                                                 Treaty of Paris, ii. 26, 27 ; the
259                                                              Bulgarian atrocities, ii. 323, 327 ;
Tenants' Arbitration (Ireland) Bill,                             war with Russia, ii. 328 ; the
    1894, ii. 469
                                                               J.Armenian massacres, ii. 469-480
Tennyson, Lady, ii. 462, 573-575
Tennyson, Lord, i. 129, ii. 192;                             Turner, W. M., i. 393
quoted, i. 74, 94 ; ' Love and                               Turnstone (bird), ii. 508
Death,' i. 92 ; ' The Two Voices,'                           Tyndall, Professor, the Duke's corre
            '  'TOhdeeGoanrdethneer'DseDatahugohftetrh,'e
i.  167  ;                                                      spondence with, ii. 341, 487, 520-
i.  233  ;                                                       526

Duke of Wellington,' i. 366; his                             Ulster, ii. 430, 432
lines to F. D. Maurice, i. 400 ; his                         Ulster custom, ii. 254, 256, 266, 350
                                                             ' Unity of Nature,' ii. 545, 557, 576
poems reviewed by Gladstone in                              University tests, Coleridge's Bill for
Quarterly Review, ii. 148 ; his
opinion of Irish Church Bill, ii.                               abolition of, ii. 309
251, 252 ; ' Sangreal,' ii. 252, 571,                        ' Unseen Foundations of Society,' ii.
572 ; illness of, ii. 462 ; the Duke's
                                                                 551-554
close friendship and admiration
for, ii. 571, 576 ; ' Sea Dreams,'                           Vaillant, Marshal, i. 554
ii. 572 ; reads proofs of the ' Idylls                      Val d'Arno, i. 204, 205
of the King ' to the Duke, ii. 573 ;                        Valency, doctrine of, i. 118
the Duke's poem on ' The Burial
of Alfred, Lord Tennyson, in

Westminster Abbey,' ii. 574 ; ' In

Memoriam,' ii. 580

Thatched House Tavern, i. 233, 414,

415

Theodalinda, Queen, i. 216

Thermopyhe, i. 249
Thiers, M., i. 437

634 INDEX

Valuation of Lands (Scotland) Bill, Vienna Conference, i. 548-557, 561-
    1894, ii. 469                        j 563 ; Treaty, ii. 213, 214
Venetia, ii. 138                           Vigo, i. 240
Venice, i. 208 ; Piazza of St. Mark,                            of,
   i. 209                                j  Villafranca, peace  his  ii. 138,  142
                                         I  Villiers, Charles,       annual
                                                                                motion
                                            for total repeal of duty on corn,
Verney, Lady, ii. 460
Verona, the Scaligeri tombs at, i. 213      i. 271, 274 ; a leaky Cabinet, i. 460
Versailles, i. 189                       , Virgil, his images from Nature, i. 83
Vesperttiio altivolans, high-flying bat, Volo, Gulf of, i. 249
i. 105                                      Volunteer system, ii. 147

Vesuvius, Mount, i. 197
Veto Law (Church of Scotland),
                                  i.        Walcheren Expedition, i. 44
                                            Wales, Prince of, ii. 591
    165, 174        II., ii. 137            Walewska, Madame, i. 597

Victor Emmanuel
IllVictoria, Queen, ascends the throne,     Walewski, Count, French Ambas
   i. ; the Duke's first sight of,             sador, i. 346 ; Foreign Minister,
i. 112, 113; opens Parliament, i.
                                            i. 589, 596-598 ; Plenipotentiary,
149, 150 ; Lord Melbourne's devo            ii. 45, 46, 107
tion to, i. 151 ; her first visit to Wallace, Sir William, i. 266
                                            Wallace, Mr., ii. 487
Scotland, i. 184 ; at Taymouth              Walpole, Mr., ii. 199
Castle, i. 185-187 ; visits Inveraray,      Walpole, Sir Robert, i. 9, 153
i. 295-297 ; and the Duchess of             Walter, Mr., of the Times, ii. 447
Sutherland, i. 319, 320 ; Peel and,
i. 322 ; opens Great Exhibition of
1851, i. 341 ; Palmerston's conduct,        Warsaw, Grand Duchy of, i. 583,
                                                584

i. 348 ; sends for Lord Aberdeen, Warwickshire scenery, i. 100
i. 369 ; swearing in new Privy Washington, Treaty of, ii. 212
Councillors, i. 416 ; second visit Waterloo, field of, i. 260, 261

to Ireland, i. 461 ; her high bear          Water-ousel (dipper), ii. 565 ;     the
ing and courage during the Crimean             Duke's ' Song of the,' ii. 566
War, i. 500, 501 ; her views on the
                                            Watson, William, ii. 577
Aberdeen Cabinet crisis, i. 520,            Wellesley, Marquis of, Governor-
521 ; her reception of the French              General of India, i. 553

Emperor and Empress, i. 547 ; her Wellington, Duke of, afraid of Ire
Memorandum about General Simp               land, i. 64, ii. 376 ; all offices of

son, i. 569 ; wishes Colin Campbell         the State temporarily held by, i.
to be Commander-in-Chief, i. 587 ;          69 ; O'Connell on, i. 154 ; the case
                                            for the Church of Scotland, i. 176,
and the peace proposals, i. 599 ;
Lord Chelmsford, ii. 86 ; sends for
Derby on Palmerston's resigna               179 ; at Waterloo, i. 260, 261 ;
tion, ii. 108 ; the Italian Question,
                                            delighted with Peel's resolute atti
                                            tude, i. 274 ; Disraeli's patron, i.
ii. 142, 143 ; Prince Consort's             280 ; and the Chartists in 1848,

death, ii. 185-188 ; Cobden on, ii.         i. 303 ; the Duke's interview with

188 ; the Duke's Memorandum on              and description of, i. 315-318 ; at
Schleswig-Holstein question, ii.            the 1851 Exhibition, i. 341 :
216 ; sends for Derby again, ii.            funeral of, i. 366-368 ; Peninsular
232 ; sends for Hartington and              War, i. 378, 505; on Thomas
Gladstone, ii. 348 ; the Duke's             Grenville, i. 395 ; the
Bessborough Commission speech,              Turkish War of                     Russo-
ii. 381 ; her letter to the Duchess         the ' illustrious,'   1828-29,     i. 439 ;

                                                                 ii. 552
of Argyll, ii. 549 ; her Diamond            Wemyss, Lord and Lady, i. 235, 315
Jubilee, ii. 555, 556 ; the Duke's          Wensleydale, Lord (Baron Parke),
lines to, and correspondence with,
                                               ii. 11, 12, 14-16
                                            Westbury, Lord (Richard Bethell),
ii. 557 ; her letter of sympathy to            Lord Chancellor, ii. 66-69
the Duchess of Argyll, ii. 584

                                           INDEX                                 635

Westminster Confession, i. 90, ii. 308         Wilson, Professor,      ' Christopher
Westminster, Constance, Duchess of                North,' i. 234, 235

{nee Leveson-Go'wer), i. 264                   Wilson, Professor George, author of
Westminster Hall banquet, the                  biographies of Cavendish, Dr. John
Duke's speech on the Unionist                    Ill,Reid, etc., i. 324-326
cause at, ii. 460
Wexford Bridge, massacre at, i. 32             Windsor Forest and Castle, i.
Whalebone, ii. 490
Wharncliffe, Lord, ii. 386, 387                    112                           ii.

                                               Wolf, the German bird-painter,

                                                   338

Whately, ii. 58                                Wood at Helmsdale, fossilized, i. 355,
Whewell,
   Trinity,  '  Professor,    Master of            356
                History of  the Inductive
                                               Wood, Sir Charles, President of the
                                               Board of Control in Aberdeen's
Sciences,' i. 357, 578 ; his brain-

case, i. 357                                   and Palmerston's Ministries, i. 381,
                                               385 ; ii. 98 ; his India Bill, i. 420,
Whistling on the Sabbath, i. 91
Whitbread, Mr.,                                432 ; and Gladstone's income-tax
White, Gilbert,  'ii.Na42tu0 ral  History  of  scheme, i. 428 ; supports peace, i.
Selborne,' i. 82, ii. 569
Whittier, John G. W., ii. 198                  456, 457 ; defends his estimates,
Whitworth, Lord, Ambassador at
                                               ii. 72 ; and the Duke's speech on
                                               India, ii. 106 ; Secretary for India
Paris, i. 34, 35 ; Napoleon's rude             in Palmerston's second Ministry,
ness to, i. 36 ; departure from                ii. 137 ; on Derby's Reform Bill,
Paris, i. 39                                   ii. 132 ; resigns India Office, ii. 229
                                               Woodpecker, ii. 337, 338; great
Wilberforce, Samuel, Dean of West
minster, Bishop of Oxford, i. 396 ;
                                               spotted, ii. 505
the word Presbyterian, i. 397 ; his Wood-wren {Sylvia trochilus), i. 82,
breakfast-parties, i. 402 ; the table-         ii. 106

    turning incident, i. 406                   Wordsworth, the Duke a pupil of,
Wilberforce, William, i. 396, ii. 55              ii. 570 ; ' rhymes should seem as
Wild-fowl at Tiree, ii. 508                       inevitable as possible,' ii. 576
Wilkes, Captain, U.S. sloop San                Workmen's Demonstration Com

   Jacinto, ii. 178-183                           mittee, ii. 324
Wilkes, John, i. 15                            Wryneck, ii. 336, 338
William I., of Prussia, i. 335 ; of
                                               Yakub, Amir of Afghanistan,
   Germany, ii. 295, 296                                                         ii.
                                                   333
William IV., i. 30                             Yellow-hammer, ii. 507
Williams, General, i. 602
Williams, Rev., of Hedsor, i. 480              Young, Lord Advocate, ii. 315
Willow-wren, on the Pincian Hill,
Rome, i. 201 ; at Argyll Lodge, ii. j Zanzibar and Muscat, ii. 277 ; Frore's
336 ; the Duke's poem on the song              special mission to, ii. 279, 280
of, ii. 560                                    Zoology, ii. 500-508

                                  THE END

                 BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTEH8, GUILDFORD

