Memoir and scientific correspondence of the late Sir George Gabriel
Stokes, bart. ... Selected and arranged by Joseph Larmor ....

MEMOIR

                                        AND

SCIENTIFIC CORRESPONDENCE

                                OF THE LATE

     Sir GEORGE GABRIEL STOKES, Bart.,

                    Sc.D., LL.D., D.C.L., Past Pres. R.S.,

    KT PRUSSIAN ORDER POUR 1.E IttvTM, FOR. ASSOC. INSTITUTE OF FRANCE, ETC.
         MASTER OF PEMBROKE COLLEGE AND LUCA8IAN PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS
                                            IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE.

                               SELECTED AND ARRANGED BY

          JOSEPH LARMOR, D.Sc, LL.D., Sec.RS.,

        FELLOW OF ST JOHN'S COLLEGE AND LUCASIAN PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS.

                                  VOLUME I.

                                                            THE

                                                                                OF

                                                    CAL'FO'.

                                 CAMBRIDGE :
                   AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

                                                             1907

Clear mind, strong hearLytnniiaQftnt of the light,
True to that light within the soul, whose ray
Pure and serene, hath brightened on thy way,
Honour and praise now crown thee on the height
Of tranquil years. Forgetfulness and night
Shall spare thy fame, when in some larger day
Of knowledge yet undream'd, Time makes a prey
Of many a deed and name that once were bright.

Thou, without haste or pause, from youth to age,
Hast moved with sure steps to thy goal. And thine
That sure renown which sage confirms to sage,
Borne from afar. Yet wisdom shows a sign
Greater, through all thy life, than glory's wage;
Thy strength hath rested on the Love Divine.

                                                       R. C. Jkbb (1899).

(*

                                     PREFACE

        SOON after the death of Sir George Stokes, representations

                      were made from various authoritative sources, including
           Lord Kelvin and Lord Rayleigh, that his papers should be care
           fully examined; as the experience of his friends and correspondents
            had shown that he was in possession of valuable improvements
            and advances in scientific subjects, which had not been adequately
            published to the world.

                 Fortunately it had been his custom to preserve all his papers ;
            but for many years they had not been sorted, and their great
            bulk, as they appeared in the numerous packing cases to which
            they had been consigned from time to time, demanded an organised
            plan of attack.

                  They were in the first place sorted and arranged, after
           ephemeral printed matter had been rejected, by Mr S. Matthews,
            the Librarian of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, during the
            summer of 1902.

             It then appeared that the bulk of formal manuscript material

           that was at all suitable for publication was small. What was
           found consisted largely of rough sheets containing jottings of
            arithmetical reductions and calculations, of which the net results
            had been either published by himself or communicated by letter
            to other workers. By far the greater part of the material was
            made up of scientific and official correspondence, amounting
            probably to more than ten thousand letters and memoranda, in
            many cases containing matter of high scientific value.

                These papers, arranged according to dates and the names of
            his correspondents, were then further examined and a preliminary
            selection was made from them. The collection thus obtained was
          further weeded out by a second scrutiny, and again as it was sent

         to press. It is possible that in some respects the gleanings might

           have been still further restricted with advantage. But it had

                                     167038

vi PREFACE

been impressed on the Editor that he must err by excess rather
than omission : and indeed, as it was hardly likely that the
material would be examined again, it seemed reasonable in cases
of doubt to lean to the side of inclusion.

      While the material for a volume of Scientific Correspondence
was being prepared, the question of an authoritative Memoir of
the life of Sir George Stokes arose. On ascertaining that his
daughter, Mrs Laurence Humphry, would undertake, on behalf of
her brother, Sir Arthur Stokes, and the surviving relatives, to
prepare materials for the personal part of a Memoir, it was
arranged that the two projects should be combined. Accordingly
the first section of the present volumes has been prepared by
Mrs Humphry: and for detailed advice in difficult questions
relating to the choice of material she desires to express grateful
acknowledgment to many helpers, including Mr and Mrs Horace
Darwin, Mr and Mrs T. F. C. Huddleston, Mr Francis Darwin,
and Dr G. W. Prothero, in addition to those friends of Sir George
Stokes who have contributed personal appreciations and to many
of those mentioned below as having promoted the undertaking as

a whole.

     The sonnet by the late Sir Richard Jebb, which is printed on
the back of the title-page, was published in the Cambridge Review
at the time of the Jubilee Celebration : it is specially appropriate
here, as Sir Richard, just before his final illness, was looking
forward to writing out his recollections of his friend, who was
also his colleague for several years in the Parliamentary repre
sentation of the University.

     In the general arrangement of the volumes there is much that
could now be improved. No attempt has been made to provide a

continuous narrative: indeed the gradual accumulation of fresh
material, in the form of groups of letters kindly sent by their
owners as the printing went on, would have rendered that
course impossible in any case. The printing has been spread over
a considerable time, and has claimed the attention of the Editor
in the midst of very varied occupations. Considerable care has,
however, been taken in the choice of head-lines for the pages, in
the expectation that by showing the main contents at a glance
they would to some extent take the place of a narrative. Care
has also been expended on the index, which is of paramount

importance in a work of this kind, if the hope is to be fulfilled

PREFACE  Vll

that, in addition to its biographical interest, it will serve as a
book of reference for the scientific history of the half-century in
which Sir George Stokes played so influential a part. With
this object in view, some series of letters to Sir George Stokes,
notably the remarkable one from Prof. Clerk Maxwell inserted
at the beginning of the second volume, have been included,

although the replies are not available.

    In order to appreciate to what extent the scientific activities

of a past time may be elucidated in this manner, reference may
be made to the numerous and increasing Continental collections,
and especially to the correspondence of Huygens, recently published
verbatim in ten sumptuous volumes by the Academy of Haarlem.

     The same aim for historical perspective supplies a reason for
the inclusion in the" volumes of many explanations that are matters
of common knowledge now, but of which even on that account it
is desirable to exhibit the early development. As regards the
considerable proportion of the letters that are expository or didactic,
it has been felt that they may to some extent take the place of
the projected Treatise on Optics, the abandonment of which, owing
to pressure of other scientific occupations, gave rise to so much

regret twenty-five years ago.

    A considerable part of the contents of the second volume

relates to Prof. Stokes' activity in the organisation of the scientific
side of the British Meteorological Service. Advantage has here
been taken of the opportunity to collect together various notes from
the Reports of the Meteorological Council and of the Solar Physics

Committee, which had not been received in time to be included in

the Mathematical and Physical Papers. Even where these notes
and letters are wanting in finality they embody the fruits of
prolonged experience and thought, and cannot fail in their
collected form to be of value to others essaying to unravel the
complex problems of practical meteorology. The very interesting

series of letters on waves and rollers at sea and their meteorological
relations opens up new developments of a subject eminently his
own, and to which at a later period Helmholtz applied all his

powers.
     Another large section of the second volume is concerned with

difficult questions relating to pendulum affairs, in connexion with
the original Indian Gravity Survey, and with subsequent surveys
in other countries which profited by the experience there gained,

viii PREFACE

in the direction of evading intricate corrections as well as uncer
tainties arising from climate. This section has been supplemented
by extracts from Col. Burrard's recent memoir, describing the
substantial corrections which have been found necessary in a
revision of the earlier Indian results.

     Throughout the volumes the footnotes are introduced mainly
by the Editor ; it has not been thought necessary to mark them
specially, except in the few cases where the subject-matter had
footnotes of its own, in which cases the new ones are enclosed in

brackets. Considerable condensation has been made in the formal

beginnings and endings of letters : in a succession by the same
writer these have usually been entirely omitted except in the first
letter of the series.

    A circumstance that will at once attract attention is the
absence of correspondence with Lord Kelvin. This omission

arises from wealth rather than deficiency of material The
existing letters from Lord Kelvin, with the complementary letters
from Sir George Stokes which Lord Kelvin has promptly supplied,
suffice to form a collection by themselves, and a memorial of
the lifelong friendship and collaboration of the writers ; and it has
been decided, with Lord Kelvin's consent, in view of the length
to which the present collection has run, that this mode of treat
ment would be preferable.

    A rather full account of the proceedings in connection with
the Jubilee Celebration of 1899 has been inserted. It had been

felt desirable to place on record for future reference a description
of this interesting and unusual event ; while the contents of the

various formal addresses received from public bodies on the
occasion have been printed in an Appendix, in acknowledgment
of the courtesy shown by the senders to the University of
Cambridge and to Sir George Stokes.

    A work of this nature could not have proceeded without very
substantial assistance. The Editor desires to acknowledge help

from M. Henri Becquerel, who advised regarding the French part
of the correspondence, Prof. G. Chrystal, Prof. Sir G. H. Darwin,
Prof. F. W. Dyson, who examined and made extracts from the
Greenwich letter books, Prof. A. R. Forsyth, Sir Howard Grubb,
Dr F. G. Hopkins, Prof. H. Kayser and Prof. G. Quincke, who
advised regarding the German letters, Mr E. H. Minns, Librarian

of Pembroke College, Sir H. E. Roscoe, Dr E. J. Routh and

PREFACE  ix

Mr Wilfrid Airy, Dr W. N. Shaw, who examined the records of

the Meteorological Office, Prof. A. Smithells, Prof. J. J. Thomson,

the Master of Peterhouse, Prof. E. Wiedemann, Mr W. E. Wilson,
and others, in addition to those already mentioned and to the
contributors of sets of letters as set forth in the Tables of
Contents. For assistance in linguistic matters he has to thank
Mr W. A. Cox, Fellow of St John's College.

     Finally, it is a pleasure to acknowledge the efficient assistance,
always very cordially rendered, of the officials of the Cambridge
University Press : they undertook to set up in type difficult and
often imperfect documents direct from the original manuscripts,
and in many other ways they have lightened the task of prepara
tion of these volumes.

                                                                         J. L.

         December, 1906

                                 ADDENDA AND CORRIGENDA.

Vol. i. p. 398. The Solar Physics Committee was not constituted until 1879, when
      Prof. Stokes became Chairman. Sir Norman Lockyer was Secretary of the
       Royal Commission on Scientific Instruction and the Advancement of Science
       of 1870-74, which consisted of the Duke of Devonshire, Lord Lansdowne,

     Sir John Lubbock, Sir J. P. Kay-Shuttleworth, B. Samuelson, W. Sharpey,
     T. H. Huxley, W. Allen Miller, and G. G. Stokes, with H. J. S. Smith added

       subsequently, and which published Reports and evidence in two large volumes.

Vol. ii. p. 362, line 5, for ramified rend rarefied ; p. 375 headline, read sensitive.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

Section I. Personal and Biographical.        By Mrs Laurence
                          Humphry.
                                                                             page
        Notes and Recollections                                                         1

Early letters to Lady Stokes                               50

Letters on Science and Religion to A. H. Tabrum ...        76

Appreciations by Colleagues.

By Prof. G. D. Liveing             G. F. Browne                     91
By Sir Michael Foster                                               97
By Sir W. Hugoins                                                  103
                                                      ... 105
By the Right Rev. Bishop

Biographical Table ...    ...                    ... ... HI

Section II. General Scientific Career                      114

On Talbot's bands                                          116

Prince of Salm-Horstmar                               ... 136
Royal Society
Michael Faraday                                        1A 220

                                                                  149

Early spectroscopic work                         ... ... 159
Prof. Hoppe-Seyler                                                         163
Thomas Henry Huxley                                                        169

Charles Darwin                                             180

Meteorological Council ...         ...                ... 182
                                                                   189
Prof. Georg Quincke                                                195
Bashforth Ballistic Committee

British Association... ... ..- ... ... ... 197

Improvement of telescopes          ... . .. ... ... 200

Celestial spectroscopy        ...  ...  ...      ...  ...  209
                                                      ...  212
Sir George Biddell      Airy

Solar Physics and Actinometry                              237

Xll CONTENTS                                            PAGE
                                                         247
             Theory of Lubrication                      248
              Fluorescence                              253
            Colour Vision                               259
            Chlorophyll, etc                            268
            Award of Copley Medal                       270
            The Rontgen rays                            273
            Cambridge Jubilee Celebration               293
           Henri Becquerel                              303
            Final tributes                              31C
            Memorial in Westminster Abbev

IIISection  a. Special Scientific Correspondence.

Dr Romney Robinson                                      324
Prof. Arthur Cayley                                     381
Sir J. Norman Lockykr                                   398

Appendix. Jubilee Addresses of Congratulation      ...  433
                                                        471
Index to Vol. 1

Portrait of Sir George Stokes in 1857              Frontispiece
                                                     ... 16
Portrait of Sir George Stokes (as a youth)                         336
Portrait of Dr Romney Robinson (in early life)

            SECTION I.

PERSONAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL.

          NOTES AND RECOLLECTIONS.

          By Mrs Laurence Humphry.

     My father's descent can be traced back to Gabriel or Gaberill
Stokes, son of John Stokes, born 1680, who appears to have
inherited good brains. He was a well-known engineer of Dublin,
where he lived in Essex Street. He suggested a plan for supply
ing that city with water without the use of pumps, wrote a

Treatise on Hydrostatics, and designed the Pigeon-House Wall in
the Harbour. He was Deputy Surveyor General for Ireland,
and maps exist in the Record Office of Dublin which are counter

signed by him.

     The history of the Stokes family, previous to 1618, is involved

in obscurity. There was a very ancient family of that name who

lived in Gloucestershire and owned a good deal of land in that
County. Two representatives of that family were living in 1876,
Dr Thomas Stokes, of Mailsworth, and his nephew Adrian Stokes,
of Southport, both advanced in life and both without issue.
Dr T. Stokes possessed an old parchment pedigree, by which

his descent could be traced back to the year 1312. It gives the

name in different forms as de Stokke, afterwards Stokys. On

the tomb of Adam de Stokke in the parish church of Great
Bedwyn, Wilts., is the figure of a Crusader with the legs crossed.
Dr T. Stokes expressed his belief that the family about whom this

s. b. i.                            1

2 ANCESTORS AND RELATIVES

memoir is written was a younger branch of his own family. One
of the grounds of his opinion was that the Irish branch possessed
a seal bearing bezants and a crescent used by Dr John Stokes,
Scholar and Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, not a man likely to
use a seal to which he was not entitled.

     The Irish branch of the family never rose to high rank
or wealth, but, what is of greater importance, they have been
distinguished by a more than ordinary degree of intellectual
power. Gabriel Stokes married Elizabeth King in 1711 ; in the
muster-roll of their descendants during three generations there
are five professors, five fellows and eight scholars of Trinity
College, Dublin, and some of them have earned a name likely
to endure. In more recent times Margaret Stokes, the Irish
antiquary, and the Celtic and Indian scholar Whitley Stokes,
children of the eminent physician, Dr William Stokes of Dublin,

have been celebrated.

     Sir George Gabriel Stokes' father was Gabriel Stokes, Rector
of Skreen, a village twelve miles south of Sligo, and Vicar-General
of Killala ; he married Elizabeth, daughter of the Rev. John
Haughton, Rector of Kilrea, County Derry, while she was still
very young. They had eight children, of whom two died in infancy.
Those who lived were

     John Whitley, born 1800, Archdeacon of Armagh, Rector of
Aughnacloy ; who obtained mathematical honours during every
year of his course at Trinity College, Dublin ; married Caroline
Elrington, daughter of the Bishop of Ferns.

     William Haughton, born 1802, died 1884; 16th Wrangler,
Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, examiner in
the Natural Science Tripos at Cambridge in 1865 and 1866 ;
Rector of Denver, Norfolk.

      Henry George, born 1804 ; Rector of Ardcolm, County Wexford,
musical, who did well at Trinity College, Dublin, and wrote The
Secret of Life in blank verse, privately printed ; married Ann
Maria, daughter of the Rev. W. Hickey.

      Elizabeth Mary, the maiden sister, who died in her ninety-
fourth year in 1904; it was to her care that George Gabriel,
eight years her junior, the youngest member of the family, was
specially committed, and a very close friendship existed between
them throughout their lives.

      Sarah Ellen, born 1813 ; who married her cousin, Hudleston

EARLY LIFE                                                        3

Stokes, of the Madras Civil Service, and lived for many years in      y
India.

     George Gabriel, born August 13th, 1819, died Feb. 1st, 1903,
the subject of these recollections.

He was thus one of a large family living in a country village

near the sea. The home-life in the Rectory at Skreen was very

happy, and the children grew up in the fresh sea-air with well-

knit frames and active minds. Great economy was required to

meet the educational needs of the large family ; but in the rustic

simplicity of a place where chickens cost sixpence each and eggs

were to be bought at the rate of five or six a penny, they were

easily provided with food. No coach or vessel came near Skreen,

so that it was an out-of-the-way, quiet place.
    All the children were much influenced by their mother, a

beautiful and somewhat stern woman, of whom they stood in

awe while they were deeply attached to her. Her husband, her

senior by many years, was a man of rather taciturn nature, who

had been a scholar of Trinity College, Dublin.
    His sister Elizabeth Stokes wrote, some years before her death,

that she was away when her brother George was born, having

been sent on a visit to England ; she first saw him when he was

a few months old :                                          His cap,
     " Such a pleasant-faced, plump, very fair, rosy baby.

for babies in those days always wore caps, had half fallen off his

head, showing his pretty hair. He grew into a dear good child, a

little passionate, but with a strict sense of honour and truthful

Iness, do not think he ever told a lie.

     " We had a very large, handsome Newfoundland dog, called

Bronte ; he and George were great friends. They used to run

about, his arm in Bronte's mouth. The child had an en

quiring mind and asked many questions, as, for instance,
'But, William, is the hawk a bird, and does he really eat

mice?' One day my mother discovered him on the floor
measuring a dead bird, and saying to himself, ' That's right,'
probably comparing it with some description which he had read.

My mother found him very slow in learning to read : she was
teaching him out of Cobwebs to Catch Flies in words of one

syllable, a book which was probably too childish for his mind.

One day he asked her if he might read the Psalms instead, and she

                                                            1--2

4 HIS SISTERS REMINISCENCES

thought that she would try him ; he got on at once and she had no
Ifurther difficulty.
                      believe that he was very well grounded in

Latin grammar by my father before he went to school.
     " When a very little boy he had small-pox. We other children

were never kept from him, and I used to play draughts and cat's
Icradle with him to amuse him. George thought that was playing

the latter so that he might win, which did not suit his strict

sense of honour. One day he pretended to be a bird, and William

said that he ought to eat a worm ; he naturally objected, but

when William told him it was the right thing he opened his

mouth. It was a trial on William's part of George's steadfastness

to his principles.
     " You ask about his dress. Very little boys were not dressed

like little men in those days, as they are now. They wore jackets

Iand kilts, a much prettier dress, think. George had a very

pretty nankeen kilt worked all round in green shamrocks by my

aunt Truelock. Another dress was of green plaid. The disloyal
people were called ' White Boys ' : George did not like to go out
with his pinafore on, for fear he should be taken for a ' white boy.'

     " Walking on the road one day, in passing the smith's forge,

a bar of iron just turning from red to black attracted him. He

clasped his hand round it and got a bad burn ; he shivered with

pain, but never cried. He was so brave that my uncle George

called him 'Wellington.'
"He was exact even when a child; one day on being sent to
Isee what o'clock it was he said, ' can't tell you what o'clock
Iit is now, but when was at the clock it was such an hour.'
I" He was very absent-minded sometimes.
                                                remember one
Iday when sent on a message he said, ' forget who sent me and

what it was about.'
     " He had a tender heart ; on hearing a little poem read out

from Rhymes for the Nursery, by Ann and Jane Taylor,

' What ! go and see the kittens drowned
 On purpose, in the yard !

 I did not think there could be found
 A little heart so hard,'

he burst into tears. One day when reading the twenty-second

chapter of Genesis, he was so amused by the names Huz, Buz,

and Pildash, that to keep himself from laughing he had to twist
Iabout ; for he had a high sense of reverence.
                                                do not think that

          SCHOOL YEARS                                            5

he ever enjoyed riding; but he owed much to my brother
William, who trained him to be hardy and brave and to have
good walking powers, as William took him with him when he
went out shooting. When quite a little boy he used to amuse us

by dancing like a dancing dog, his arms up and his hands
hanging like paws, and also by repeating the 'Three Blind
Mice' in character, and he did both very well.

     " He learnt arithmetic from the Parish Clerk, George Coulter,
who used to say with delight that Master George had soon found

out new ways of doing sums far better than those given in Voster's
Arithmetic; and clever people were surprised by the questions

which he used to solve by the arithmetical rule of False Position.
There is a tradition that he did many of the propositions of
Euclid as problems without having looked at the book."

In 1832, at 13 years of age, he was sent to the Rev. R. H.

Wall's school in Hume Street, Dublin. There he remained for

three years, attending school as a day boy, and living during term

time with his uncle, John Stokes, a course probably necessitated

by the many calls on the limited incomings at Skreen. He

pursued the usual school studies, and attracted the attention of

the mathematical master by his solutions of geometrical problems.
While there the news reached him that his father had suddenly

Idied from heart failure. This made a great impression upon
him.      remember that in 1901, when I was wearing a pair of

small and unremarkable silver buckles he, usually most un

observant of details in dress, looking earnestly at them requested

me not to wear them again, as they were knee-buckles worn

by his father on the morning when he was found lying dead

in 1834.

While at Dr Wall's school he took lessons in riding; the

horse tripped, threw him, and he broke his arm ; he had the good

sense to go straight to his cousin Gabriel Stokes in Harcourt

St. to get it set, instead of returning home and frightening his

mother, who was then residing with his Uncle John. He was

much interested when the Röntgen Rays shewed the fracture

years afterwards. His sister Elizabeth found him caterpillars,
and he had the pleasure of seeing " thirteen turn into butter
flies " during his convalescence.

In 1835, he went to Bristol College, a school that no longer

6 YEARS AT BRISTOL COLLEGE

exists, of which Dr Jerrard, his brother William's friend and a

mathematician of some note, was principal. In making his first
crossing from Waterford to Bristol the packet " Killarney " nearly
sank, and William gave a great account of his coolness in face of

danger, telling how the boy took off his great coat so as to be

ready to swim.

He remained for two years at Bristol College ; he considered

that when there he owed much to the teaching of Francis Newman,

brother of the Cardinal, a man of charming character and great

attainments, afterwards made manifest in many ways, who was

then Lecturer in Elementary Mathematics, and subsequently cor

responded with him on mathematical subjects when both had

become famous. Distinction awaited him at this school, as at the

previous one, for proficiency in mathematics, although he said
Ithat he had not read so far as some of the senior boys.
                                                              have in
my possession Roscoe's Life of Lorenzo de Medici, a " Prize

presented to George Gabriel Stokes for eminent proficiency in

Mathematics at an examination held at the Bristol College in

January, 1837, by J. H. Jerrard, D.C.L., Principal." In a letter

to him of date June 30, 1837, expressed in frank and intimate

Iterms, Dr Jerrard writes, " have strongly advised your brother
Ito enter you at Trinity, as feel convinced that you will in all

human probability succeed in obtaining a Fellowship at that

College."

In his early days he is related to have been somewhat rash on

foot and in the water ; he had various narrow escapes amongst

the mountains of Westmorland and Cumberland, and he was a

venturesome swimmer on the North Coast of Ireland.

     He is said to have been even more silent in early life than in
later years. This characteristic is supposed to have originated

when his brothers laughed at him before he went to Bristol and
                      give " long                  "
warned  him  not  to               Paddy  answers      ;  in  consequence  he

formed the habit of simply answering yes or no. As a little boy

he was subject to violent though transient fits of rage ; but this
tendency was so completely overcome that in later years, though

eager, he was almost uniformly calm and even in temper. He
had a real love of Botany and a practical knowledge of it : in

youth and early mauhood this formed a distraction, and he was in

the habit of searching for flowers during his walks. In later years

he became more and more engrossed by work and thought, and

AND AT CAMBRIDGE  7

usually walked with his eyes upon the ground, even passing
people he knew well, close enough to brush against them, with
out perceiving them.

     Between the ages of sixteen and seventeen he was keen in the
study of butterflies and caterpillars. One day while he was at
Cambridge, returning from a walk, he failed to respond to the
salutation of some ladies of his acquaintance; when asked the
reason of such odd behaviour he answered that he could not bow,

as his hat was full of beetles.
     He entered the University of Cambridge in 1837, at the age

of eighteen years. In his undergraduate days sports were not the
fashion with reading men, who took "grinds" or country walks
instead. This habit he maintained in youth, and until long past
middle life long walks were the custom, both summer and winter,
at a pace of nearly four miles an hour. At eighty-three years of
age he still went the Grantchester " Grind," of three or four miles,
and other equally long walks as his afternoon exercise. When
he was an undergraduate everybody dined very early, and he
maintained the practice, doubtless conducive to work, for many

years afterwards.

     My father told me that he never read more than eight hours
a day, even before an examination, and held that this was enough
for anyone reading mathematics: he added laughingly that he
had never been reduced to binding his head up in a wet towel.

     Mr Glazebrook, who had undertaken to write an article in

Good Words for May, 1901, asked me to obtain some informa
tion for him ; my father in response wrote the following short

paper.

   I" entered Pembroke College, Cambridge, in 1837. In those
Idays boys coming to the University had not in general read so far

in mathematics as is the custom at present ; and had not begun

Ithe Differential Calculus when entered College, and had only
Irecently read Analytical Sections. In my second year began to

read with a private tutor, Mr Hopkins, who was celebrated for the
very large number of his pupils who obtained high places in the
University examinations for Mathematical Honours. In 1841,

I obtained the first place among the men of my year as Senior

Wrangler and Smith's Prizeman, and was rewarded by immediate
election to a Fellowship in my College. After taking my degree

8 AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL MEMORANDUM

I continued to reside in College and took private pupils. I
Ithought would try my hand at original research ; and, following

Ia suggestion made to me by Mr Hopkins while reading for my

degree, took up the subject of Hydrodynamics, then at rather a

low ebb in the general reading of the place, notwithstanding that

George Green, who had done such admirable work in this and

other departments, was resident in the University till he died.

My earlier papers are mostly on Hydrodynamics, and have for

the most part been printed in the Cambridge Philosophical

Transactions. Perhaps the most important of these papers is

one in which the equations of a viscous fluid are applied to the

determination of the resistance of the air to pendulums.  In
I1849, when thirty years of age, was elected to the Lucasian

Professorship of Mathematics, and ceased to take pupils. The

direction of the Observatory was at that time attached to the

Plumian Professorship; and the holder of that office, Professor

Challis, used to give lectures in Hydrodynamics, Hydrostatics,

and Optics, as had been done by his predecessor Airy. On my

election Challis, who was desirous of being relieved of his lectures

on Hydrostatics and Optics, so as to be free to take up the subject

of Astronomy, which was more germane to his office at the

IObservatory, agreed with me that should undertake the course

of lectures which he himself had previously given. This turned

my attention to the subject of Optics. Having casually heard in

1851 that there was something peculiar about the solution of

quinine, I procured some and examined Sir John Herschel's

papers on the subject in the Philosophical Transactions for 1845.

The peculiarity of that phenomenon, taken in connection with

the remarkable analysis of light which Herschel had discovered,

in relation to the epipolic dispersion of light, but had left un

Iexplained, intensely interested me. At first took for granted

that the blue light coming from the solution could only have

arisen from light of the same refrangibility in the incident beam.

IBut in following out the necessary consequences of this assump

tion, was compelled to make suppositions as to the behaviour of

the fluid towards the incident light, which were of so complex

and artificial a character as to bear no resemblance of truth. In

thinking over the matter it occurred to me that if we may

suppose the blue light given out by the solution to be an effect of

the rays of higher refrangibility incident upon  it,  everything

DISCOVERY OF FLUORESCENCE  9

would fall into its place, and the whole of the phenomena be
explained in the simplest manner. Such an idea, when once it

had occurred to the mind, can be confronted with observation

without any difficulty ; and experiment showed that the suggested

explanation was the true one. A new field of research was thus

thrown open, on account of the facility with which the presence of
invisible rays of high refrangibility could be made evident. The
first of my papers on this subject is published in the Philosophical

Transactions for 1852, and was rewarded by the Royal Society by
the award of the Rumford Medal. In 1849, and for many years

after, most of the Professorships in the University, the Lucasian

among them, were very inadequately endowed. Accordingly I did

not deem it to be inconsistent with the retention of the Pro

fessorship at Cambridge to accept a few years later a Lectureship

in the Royal School of Mines, though it obliged me to live in

London for some part of the year. I resigned this on being

appointed as additional Secretary to the Cambridge University

Commissioners of 1856."

     His writings were chiefly memoirs on mathematical and
physical subjects. He specially mentions another publication
belonging to pure mathematics; it related to a determination
" which was believed to be novel at the time *, of the curious way
in which the coefficient of a Bessel's function of a mixed imaginary
changes with the argument of the variable, when the function is
expressed in a form convenient for calculation for large values of
the variable, by means of a semi-convergent series."

     This account of the detection of the change of refrangibility
of light may be compared with a contemporary memorandum,
endorsed " A Discovery," and evidently written as a provisional
record, which has been found by Prof. Larmor among his papers.

    " I discovered on Monday, April 28th, 1852, that in the

phenomenon of interior dispersion a ray of light actually changes
its refrangibility. In sulphate of quinine (a solution of about
55ff part in which is dilute sulphuric acid) the violet rays of a
certain refrangibility produce the interior dispersion noticed by
Sir D. Brewster, while the invisible, or at any rate barely visible,
rays beyond the extreme violet produce the narrow band of light

described by Sir J. Herschel (Phil. Trans. 1845). The dispersed

            I* It was so. See Math, and Phyt. Papers, Vol. iv. pp. 80, 298.]

10 BRITISH ASSOCIATION LECTURE

ray is compound, although dispersed' from a ray of definite re

frangibility. In alcoholic tincture of laurel leaves, rendered

almost colourless by exposure to the light, a dispersed blood-red
ray is produced not only by the red rays but by the indigo; that
is to say, a part of the compound dispersed ray is blood red. The
red component of the dispersed ray appears to be of definite
refrangibility, the refrangibility, however, being a function of the
refrangibility of the ray from which it was dispersed.

                                                                       G. G. Stokes."

     This fundamental and entirely unexpected discovery fixed the
attention of the scientific world and brought him the award of the
Rumford Medal of the Royal Society in the same year. At the
meeting of the British Association at Belfast in September, 1852,
he delivered one of the two evening lectures, on that subject :
the occasion is thus described by his sister Elizabeth.

I " We fixed upon Friday for our journey to Belfast that

  might go to George's Lecture, and I had that great pleasure,

the pleasure of seeing the very high estimation in which he is
held. He spoke for about two hours and was listened to with the
deepest attention, and such stillness, except a buret of applause
now and again. He was most perfectly at his ease, and spoke so

Idistinctly that did not lose a word. When he had concluded

Col. Sabine rose and said he was sure he was only fulfilling the
wishes of the ladies and gentlemen present in conveying to him
their sincere thanks for his kindness in coming forward, and for
the very clear explanation he had given of his discovery ; that he
felt sure there were but few present who could follow the subject
in all its details ; yet he was also sure there were none who had
not derived pleasure and profit, and that many would look back
with delight to their presence there that evening, as they watched
the onward progress of him whose present discovery was but a
first step, of him who, if God is pleased to spare his life, promises
to be one of the first scientific men of his age or of any other; that
his countrymen have good reason to be proud of him, and so on.

IHad Col. Sabine been his father think he could not have taken

more deep interest in him than he appeared to do."

      He considered that many of the men who worked under
him in later years had been much overtrained, and that this

            THE ANNUAL SMITH'S PRIZE EXAMINATION                                       11

tended to weaken their minds and diminish their power of

originality. He had heard of a machine for stuffing live fowls to

which he likened the process, and sometimes said, "They are

stuffed, they won't do anything more, the thinking has been done
for them." He considered this to be the reason why some of

those who took very high places in the Mathematical Tripos did
so little afterwards. In crossing the fen to Newnham one day

I asked him if he thought that there were many " mute in

glorious" mathematicians in the world, for instance Newnham

millers, who might have done great things, but, for want of

opportunity, only counted their sacks and did their accounts.

He replied that that kind of genius wanted a good deal of help

and cultivation to bring it out; he thought that in the past men

of great ability in these directions might easily have been buried

and lost, but that now a clever National schoolmaster would

discover boys who had ability. But he considered that this sort

of power was slow in its development.

He was of course acquainted with a number of foreign lan

it

                         is,
guages, that                  he knew them sufficiently to follow the meaning

of scientific literature with mathematical signs to guide him but
                                                 by

                                                                                    ;
    was very difficult to him to speak in any foreign tongue.

It was interesting to see him sit down with a pamphlet in an

unknown language; he took a dictionary and hammered away,
" finding the Latin by the sense, not the sense
                                                 the Latin."

The days of the Smith's Prize and Bell Scholarship Examina

tions were always marked days with us, as the house was

turned upside-down we lunched in the drawing-room, and the
                              ;
dining-room mahogany supported the elbows of those who were
Ifexamined.                      it
              they were in awe of my father during their papers,

he was quite afraid of them at lunch. He considered  it                                part

                                                          a

of his duty to help to relax their mental strain, and used to

lament that he found so difficult to entertain them and did not

know what to say. It once happened that during the recreation
interval in the garden after lunch two candidates ran away. It

was particularly unfortunate, as one of them had done rather well.

The event was long spoken of in the family with bated breath,

and afterwards the garden gate was kept locked on these

occasions.

He often regretted his habit of silence sometimes when asked
                                       ;

why he had not taken pity on an uncomfortably shy person, he

12 PERSONAL APPEARANCE AND PORTRAITS

would answer that he wished to speak, but that he could think
of nothing worth saying. Though silent he was very sympathetic,
and almost everyone felt keenly attracted to him ; even children,
whom it might have been thought that his abstractedness would
have daunted, went to him at once. His little grand-daughter
was quite devoted to him, and would coax him to take her to see
the ducks, tortoises, and gold-fish in the Botanical Gardens.

     Had he not married, he might have had a lonely old age ;
for people did not often visit him socially, even his old pupils.
He used to be disappointed on Ray Club evenings when few
men came. He would prepare things to show with an eager
expression and be ready and anxious to talk about them ; and

then members did not come, or if they came were more interested

in other subjects.

     There was something intensely attractive in his personality,
in the mixture of calm and activity in his body and mind,

in his strength and gentleness, dignity and humility of

character, wisdom and absolute simplicity, firm faithful nature
and simple courtesy. He was constant in his willingness to

give his time and his services, and had a deep regard for the
lives and interests of other people. His appearance was a true
index of the mind within, which in moments of intense feeling
or thought seemed to shine through his bodily frame. His smile
was most attractive, coming suddenly upon a gently grave face in
a glow of kind sweetness, which gave the impression of light.
In stature he was rather short than tall, firmly and strongly knit,

strong rather than graceful in person, his head very large but so
well moulded and proportioned that it did not seem too large for
his height, very finely shaped over the forehead, with a splendid
sweep of brow ; the eyes rather small than large, of a grey blue

tone and bright ; his complexion clear and slightly ruddy, giving an
impression of health. He used to fluff out his hair, always curly

and in later years like a silvered halo round his head, when his
problems were too distracting ; " making his fur fly," we said.
Perhaps the Lowes Dickinson portrait in the Combination Room
at Pembroke College* is most like his expression when in deep
thought. But he was apt to look bored when being painted, and

     * This portrait has been reproduced as a frontispiece  to Vol. iv. of the Mathe
matical and Physical Papers.

                  SILENCE AND RESERVE                     13

to draw down the corners of his mouth. Thus the portrait by

Herkomer at the Royal Society is not satisfactory to those who

knew him best ; but the busts by Hamo Thorneycroft in the
Hall of Pembroke College and the Fitzwilliam Museum, and the

medallion by G. W. de Saulles, all done at the time of his
Jubilee, are beautiful and true portraits. The medallion by Hamo

Thorneycroft in Westminster Abbey is also an excellent memorial.

Possibly few men have been photographed so often, and the idea

of sun-pictures was always attractive to him ; some of the results

were very successful, for instance, Mrs Frederic Myers' photograph,
reproduced, by permission, in Vol. v. of the Mathematical and

Physical Papers.

Perhaps his silence was most painful to him when some

foreigner came from a distance on purpose to meet and talk with

him. It might have been imagined that polite and sociable

Frenchmen, interested in the same subjects, and coming with the

express object of conversing with him, would have vanquished

any degree of reserve; but they were not always successful. Yet

he very much enjoyed talking, and hearing conversation. It

seemed on the whole easier to him to converse with women than

with men --that is among unscientific people --and during the last

few years of his life, when less busy, he showed much pleasure in

the society of ladies. He would often sit at tea-time amused by

the chat, and then would suddenly launch into the conversation.

The absence of obligation to talk inclined him to do so.

     But anyone evincing a real desire for information or advice
was always sure of attention and kindness. He had none of the

impatience of ignorance and stupidity that is often shown by
clever people, nor did he seem surprised by absence of the most

ordinary knowledge, provided there was no pretence and no

humbug of any kind ; these however he did not expect, and he
Iwas never on the watch for them.
                                   do not remember having
heard him speak of any one as stupid, though if questioned he

might say ' Well, perhaps not very bright.' Nor indeed did he

often refer to men as having great intellectual power ; but of one
of the younger scientific men he once remarked, ' The breadth of

his knowledge amazed me, but he is so modest that he will never

get credit for all he knows.' The differences in the quality
of his silence were very interesting, also the way in which his

strong character could be displayed through silence and be keenly

 14 PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS

Iffelt. his silence were one of disapprobation it was known at once ;

 and few people have exerted a more potent influence by well-

chosen words than he wielded by this power of silence. It was

rarely that unkind and unjust things were said before him;
inaccurate people became more exact in his presence.

      He seldom gave opinions upon the characters of persons, and
 only when asked to do so, when he would give his unvarnished

opinion, but with pain if it were of an unfavourable nature ;

beginning, " I am disposed to think," and springing slightly on his

chair, just hitching it a little, his two hands holding the seat in
a way he had when something was drawn from him which he must
say because he thought it true, but did not wish to say lest it
might be lacking in charity or justice.

     It was curious that with this fixed habit of silence he could

speak with great ease when formal speech was needful, not only
on scientific matters and business, but quite unexpectedly on
subjects of a far lighter nature. For instance, he had taken me as
his lady to a City dinner, and after it had begun a message came
asking him to make one of the speeches of the evening, as the

person chosen to do it was prevented from being present. It was

reassuring to see him eating his dinner very calmly, and not
appearing in the least dismayed. He made a very good after-dinner
speech, clearly spoken in well-chosen language, with no harping
on previous jokes but with jokes of his own, courteous and easy,
neither too long nor too short, and without any of the hesitation
which is not unknown on such occasions. For although shy he
was not a nervous man.

     His marriage was a singularly happy one. He first met
Miss Robinson, daughter of the Rev. Thomas Romney Robinson,
Astronomer of the Armagh Observatory, at a Meeting of the
British Association, and had some difficulty in re-discovering her,

as he imagined her to be a daughter of Sir David Brewster. It

was but a cursory first interview, but he was so much charmed
by her appearance and her manner that he cherished the hope
that this might be the lady of his affection. They next stayed
together at Lord Rosse's; report said that he proposed to her in
the tube of the Great Telescope, but this is absolute fiction.

     Dr Thomas Romney Robinson was the son of Thomas Robinson,
portrait painter, pupil and friend of Romney, to whose life by

DR ROMNEY ROBINSON  15

Hayley he considerably contributed. Bishop Percy, who wrote

Reliques of Ancient Poetry, took a great interest in him as a boy,
and helped in his education. He was elected in 1814 a Fellow
of Trinity College, Dublin, and for several years lectured in Dublin
University as Deputy Professor of Natural Philosophy. He became
an eminent and active scientific man and a prominent Fellow of
the Royal Society, and in various ways was a very remarkable man.

     In connection with his work as a teacher he published a volume
entitled A System of Mechanics, in 1820. After nine years'
residence in Dublin University, and some sojourn in two country

parishes, he was appointed head of the Armagh Observatory,

where he produced The Armagh Catalogue of Stars, in a large
volume of more than 900 octavo pages. In recognition of the

excellence of this work he received the Copley Medal from the
Royal Society in 1862. He worked upon the improvement of the
Mural Circle, and had a great share in the construction of the
Great Melbourne Reflector, and in the invention of the Robinson

or Cup Anemometer. When the Board of Trade established seven

first-class meteorological stations, Armagh was selected as one of
the seven. But the work of the Observatory was much crippled
by the disestablishment of the Irish Church in 1868, which

 reduced the income from £216 to £60, besides preventing for

 the future the liberality of the Archbishops of Armagh, whose
incomes also were much reduced. He held many other medals

and was a knight of the Prussian Order Pour le Merite. He was
 President of the British Association.

     In addition to his scientific knowledge Dr Robinson was a
 linguist, with a good knowledge of Greek and Latin authors;

 besides reading Spanish, French and Italian, he had great love
 and admiration of the old Icelandic Sagas in the original. He
 was one of the early and devoted admirers of E. FitzGerald's work.
 He was a most charming man and a delightful talker, for joined
 to an extraordinary memory he had a most eloquent tongue. He
 married first Miss Rambaut, the mother of his children, and

 secondly Lucy Edgeworth, half-sister of Maria Edgeworth, and
 the original of "Lucy" in her novel Harry and Lucy. There is
 an interesting account in Maria Edgeworth's Memoirs of a visit to
 the Observatory.

      Dr Robinson died in February 1882, having nearly reached
 the age of ninety. My father was to have written an obituary

16 HIS MARRIAGE

notice of him for the Royal Society, but the years which followed

were very busy ones, and he never did this piece of work.

    It may be imagined that my father found this bright and

talkative Irish home-circle very pleasant after his quiet and lonely

college life, and that he gained in his future father-in-law a most

affectionate and congenial companion.

His suit was successful ; but on one occasion a letter of fifty-

five pages about his scientific preoccupations gave room for

misunderstanding, and it seemed that the engagement might

terminate. The passages printed below are chosen from many

letters that were written at this period. At first sight it seemed

as though even these were of too intimate a nature for publication;

but on thinking the matter over and taking advice from friends

the letters were so unlike ordinary love letters, so dignified and

impersonal in their expression, that, written, as he said, to explain

his character, they must be of legitimate interest to others as con

taining the only self-revelation that he apparently ever consciously

made. They are remarkable also from the curious place which he

assigned to his original investigations; it almost seems as if he

considered them the height of dissipation, and everything else a

duty. He evidently thought that his correspondent had not been

unjust in thinking his nature deficient in warmth at this period,

and that he was conscious of a too overwhelming absorption in his

investigations and experiments. Nor is this surprising, when we

consider that this period coincided with the development of some

of his most striking discoveries. As she felt this anxiety when

about to sever herself from her old home, she was wise and true in

expressing it at the risk of pain to them both. He never after

wards heard of a broken engagement without pain, holding that

if not two, anyhow one person usually suffered acutely. Even if

he hardly knew people, he grieved at such news.

But his patience, sweetness, and good sense convinced her that

she had been right in her first decision, and she stood firm. They

were married in 1857, and went to Switzerland for their honey

moon. The following entries from my mother's journal are

characteristic :  ' George  is so  fond  of  lightning  '    later,  ' he puts
                                                          ;

his head under all the waterspouts he can find ' ; then, ' he flew

about, now up, now down, trying to find a better path ; he quite

enjoys dangerous places and looks so happy where his neck might
be broken.' Their first Cambridge residence, in 1858, was in tiny


H:                                                                     sill A O 30Yi.i

                                                     '',.;! 1                -   .         jn. aqi s.reaf ipyip-A
                                                                                        " snp, ooaid jo "mjom
                                                               I i«                                                              I
                                I          .. ,!» ij ..                             .        J...t| pnnoj ku|} r.i.ii|             ,; . .
                                   '.                                                 ..    " i; ja SU| )OU\b 'HI!
                 -U .( .:.i                                            I.-
                   .                        'I                                                  .uii. .wrpin-.i0ipy
                      -1                        1
                                        Hi". .'|..'. .-. l.

                             !V.(- -'Tj -                   ;,               ,i           .,                                                .

        :          ... pi:'. ;-.».' Ill, ,-.                                                      iK'isii.           v

            -.l nil- .r« .:1s; ,<-n                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                         ,

    ... ..                s Ipl 11. -.!![

    ,.. . ..(;.:.               '...ii y.r                                                         ..m mi.-gv8ua

                                                                                              v iin liasuip )J{ .U
                                                                                                 iy lsuu Jlp^l« !' ..

                                                                                                                i"1 ,'l!''' .
    .t .j'-'!!1-                        ,. -..-.->.                                           .;
                                j                                                                                                   i
                                   1                                                                                                   i
                                              <1
                                                       .                                                                                    .
                                                                      ,                                                                       l:
                 :. i.- win* u. (.1

    --  !..-...             \.' U.i i--vn|           .      .
                     .          )                      .
                        :1

    pi., :iO il>piL'jt                               i
    '.i . S.I                                           !-
                                        r, r:               ;  .

        d                               - 'Till                                                          «i -Hi:!"'.-l. t.
           . ,; .j                      '                                                            -.' |.!s

.. -              1. ill AV»\1 ix-i:I                       j                                             - OJ .*.{t,) -. --  i
    s., a'oii} :-iuu1 .1                                                                             ).                           
                                                                                                     J'l ,.. .1.) :..-,':.:,         '
                ;)'i a-[uo u-jps                                                                        "|
                .f'lijj are i-mai                                                                    i1. SIH'l ...1fl[d V. '.
                                                     :                                            ^soui'i. ui.ws -1' ·        :| :
        ll.iil?. fr) SIl{ janiSuO ll                                                          .. pua \r.1ve iH|,
                                                                                                                i'.                   'i ,
    '.'... p,,.i,.'p'- iU31I1 01J') .ihl,l|                                                       i.ii.'['i;oii>
                                                                                                                                               .
,            Dj-| .(puapiAO                                                               '.  ... .1:1. ijl !'. -'HU "l                           ,.
   .                                                                                                       iii.ii».;c i.ci 'j.
         aifi'i-ii. m Snispnm siq ".jvu

    .                           !...!.                ..                                  ,.
      .I                        i,-                  . :.
                                      .
                                    'i

                             -i

                                                          ,.
                                                                    .
    !...'A!t ...tl:i\,                                                                                    '.|ij'i- ,ii'I         i.
    .. .!.'(|                                                                                   '.' .' !.. .\.
                                                                                                       \.
         -.. )v.Ui                                                                                  v. -;. u ..- ,a>.

                                                                                              .i

                   '. i« sqi ip)u v

                      -i yj v u,15j.ufi
            j.                                                                                    -131               J[
                  >
                                                                                          ,     Tiiinj 'ured ,'iu              X
                       ti                                                                     pai.ijju -Vp4IlDB
                                                                                                                              !
                                  '.;
                                         .
                                                      '.

                                            :l

                                                                    .
                                                                        .i
                            .'          M' .i4o                        . -.

                                                                                              Hi a\
                                                                                        .
                                                                                                            ';                   .ij        i.
                                                                                             asu.- '...lUAUO.i

                                                                                          p." 01J_S JJO-4S [t I,

            1      p.l.Ul 'l                                                                  [)llil|r IJ .1i 'it
               ·.
                 ,.llM.i'...    :                                                          . .!.)i{4'.nt - I . "                 .
                 p.- opun         . 1.l                                                      .:. s...rj
                                       1 '.
                                                  .                                       . I-.-. ,. .

                                            .;,

                   AV 'flu      .

                            .. s'll-.:; il '! . .

                                            '1
                                                        \'
                                                            .
    "-                                  .:.. isjit Hjiuv-)                       .


        OF THE

UNIVERSITY
             OF

                          MARRIED LIFE     17

rooms over a nursery gardener's, now 'Willers',' some way out, on     ^/

the Trumpington Road.
     Then after a brief sojourn in London lodgings, while he

lectured at the School of Mines, they took a small isolated house
in Cambridge, Lensfield Cottage (recently re-named Stokes Lea),
in which the remainder of her life and most of his were passed.

It was gradually enlarged to meet the needs of a larger family

party, but always retained its simple cottage character.

     His fellowship at Pembroke was vacated by marriage, but

twelve years later, in 1869, his College was enabled to re-elect him
under a new Statute.

My mother, though not educated in the modern manner,

was cultivated in her tastes, a great reader of good English prose

and poetry, as well as of the Belles Lettres of France and Italy.

My father never wrote anything not purely scientific without

consulting her, reading the proof-sheets to her and accepting

many of her suggestions.  He read over his Gifford Lectures

on Natural Theology in this way to an audience of two. These

lectures gave him great difficulty, and he felt much hampered

and handicapped by the terms of the bequest, which prevented

him from treating the subject from the standpoint of revealed

religion.
     He took great pleasure in his wife's music; though no

executant, she played with taste and feeling and with sweetness
of touch. He especially delighted in Handel, always his favourite
composer; before deciding whether he would go to a concert
he often asked whether there would be any Handel in the

programme.

    In later years she went very little into society with him,

never having recovered from the shock of their younger son's
sudden death. But although he greatly missed her company
abroad, perhaps the quiet of home was more restful to him on
that account, and he always returned to it as a peaceful haven,

sure that she would be there and ready with loving sympathy for

all his work.

     This is perhaps the place to insert the letter in which
long afterwards he communicated to his wife the news that
he had been recommended for a baronetcy of the United

Kingdom.

s. b. i.                                2

18 PROPOSAL OF A BARONETCY

                              Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

Dearest Mary,                              24 May, 1889.

                On arriving I found a letter which surprised me.
It was marked private, "Salisbury" was in the corner, in the same

hand as the direction, and it was sealed with the seal of the

Foreign Office.

    Here is a copy: --

Dear Professor Stokes,                         May 22, 1889.

    I am glad to be able to inform you that in recognition
of your remarkable distinction as a man of science, as well as of

the high official position that you occupy, the Queen has been
Itpleased to confer upon you  a Baronetcy  of the United Kingdom.
                                to be the  medium of making this
     gives me much pleasure

communication.

                        Believe me, yours very truly,

                                           SALISBURY.

   I had a mixed feeling about it. It is of course a very high

honour, but there is something of a white elephant about more

especially looking to the time when am gone.... At the same time
I

              a

             if

                                I
                                      I

                                                                                it,

                                                                        it

                                                                                                 it,
   felt as on public grounds ought to accept or more strictly
not to decline it; for from the words of the letter would seem

to be fait accompli....

      My own feeling was that there was an awkwardness for myself,
and still more for Arthur, in having a Baronetcy without means

to support it. On the other hand felt a sort of public duty
                I

                     if

                         it

                               I
                                    I

                                                    it
                                                               it
not to decline, even    were open to me to do so, which from the

words of the letter seemed very doubtful. For was through me

an honour to science, of which am pro tempore the representative,

as being President of the Royal Society, and an honour to the

University; and felt that there might also be a political motive

in as a set off against the recent attack on the representation
it

of the Universities, which was defeated in the Commons by good
                                                                   Ia
majority, 91.   thought however  would consult Sir George
               I
                       I

                                       I
                                                     I
Paget confidentially. He felt the awkwardness as to money

matters, but thought    ought not to decline.                      was thinking

of further consulting Professor Browne, but Isabella suggested

Sir Thomas Wade, which at once commended itself to me.                                                had

a long talk with him. He did not think the money objection was

at all serious; he thought ought not to decline without some
                        I

HIS EXPERIMENTAL APTITUDE                                 19

very strong reason; and supposed that it would appear in the
IGazette to be published to-day -- the Queen's birthday.
                                                          don't

think that you had much idea on July 4, 1857, that you were

going to be a Baronet's wife.

      Probably few people have been more completely absorbed in

their experiments. In fact his devotion to them sometimes gave
rise to misapprehension. In his college days, when convalescent
from a long fever, he began to experiment on chlorophyll. A friend
calling to enquire found him absent and asked his bed-maker if

he were better. ' Yes,' said she, ' he is getting strong again, but
(tapping her forehead significantly) ' the poor young gentleman is
always playing with green leaves.' When sitting with his family
he might be seen trying the different way in which he saw colour

with his two eyes,--engaged at his 'blinkings,' as his children
called it. He would eagerly seize upon any brilliant piece of

knitting, etc., which he found lying about, and he became devoted
to a shawl of his wife's, on which he founded a series of experi

ments. Many of his most interesting experiments were made in
a' narrow passage room behind the pantry, which was his study
until Lensfield Cottage was enlarged. He had a shutter fitted

into the small window, and a bracket was fixed before a slit cut

in the shutter on which to place crystals and prisms; in these

simple and narrow surroundings he carried on his work, so that

it was aptly said, "that if you gave Stokes the Sun there was

no experiment he could not do for two-pence."

   IAs a child loved to watch him working at experiments in
Ihis study; can still see the Rembrandt effect of the strong light

and shade cast upon his face, when he opened the shutter from

time to time to alter the position of the things resting on the

bracket, and the absorbed and delighted expression of his

countenance.

     He rejoiced in silent companionship, often taking one of us on
his long quick walks, perhaps not saying a single word for miles.
Then some day his interest would be aroused by something heard
or seen, and he would have a sudden fit of eloquence. One day
it would be caused by the humming of the telegraph posts*, on

     [* See the fundamental memoir " On the Communication of Vibration from a
Vibrating Body to the Surrounding Gas," Phil. Trans. 1868, Math, and Phyi.

Papers, Vol. n. pp. 299--324.]  2--2

20 HABITS OF SCIENTIFIC OBSERVATION

several occasions by the beauty and interest of rainbows, especially[* Aaa
by one near Bray Head when we were sitting close to the cliff's
edge and saw a far larger part of the arc than is usually seen.I                       it,
He then told me that he once had to speak at one of the Royal
Academy dinners, and took as his text the help which Science
might be to Art, criticising a fine landscape on the walls, much
spoilt to him by a rainbow with its colours in the wrong order.
He said that Millais stood up and owned to the rainbow, which

he said he would amend, and made a very amusing speech.

    Another time when we were at Malahide I went with a cousin

to post letters late in the evening, and we noticed something
curious in the sky; she said that it was only sea-fog arched by the

Iwind, but it appeared to be something more, though even if it

were only sea-fog was certain that my father would want to
know why it arched like that. He came out at once aud said
that it was a lunar rainbow, and that he had seen one only once
before in his life; he was delighted at not having missed and
walked and talked until quite late.

     After taking his degree, he was once observed at a party
given at the Cambridge Observatory employing himself by
making waves with the spoon in his tea-cup, watching their
formation in abstracted silence*; he acquired habit which he

never lost of stirring his tea an immense time.
          favourite amusement of his was making musical note on

the edge of his finger-bowl at dessert; his mind seemed divided
by interest in the number of different notes which could be

produced, and how they were made, and by the peculiarities
of the shivers in the water to which the vibrations gave rise.
The different bowls gave different results, so that at one period

he was constantly tuning; he was always much interested in the

subject.

He never worked in the garden, but used to stroll in                a

picking off the dead flowers from the geraniums, one of his                it,

favourite plants. He loved brilliant colours intensely; and my

mother and  used to be amused at the vehement colours he

wished us to select when we had patterns of dress stuffs. He

          The illustration mentioned by Helmholtz, in his great memoir of 1858, on
vortex motion, namely, the formation of half vortex-rings by drawing semi-
immersed spoon through liquid, will come to mind.]

         DELIGHT IN COLOUR  21

would say of some portentously powerful specimen, "Now, that

is a nice quiet colour, don't wear dunduckety-mud-colour," an

Iexpression which he often used, and applied to Morris' wall
papers.  used to say that he would like us to be dressed in the

colours of the spectrum, a different one each time. He delighted

in stained glass, and was very much interested in the optical

reasons which caused the beauty of fine old glass. He talked

Iquite a long time about it once in King's College Chapel.

begged that he would write it down, but fear that he never found

time to do so. It was about the juxtaposition of certain colours

and in certain quantities giving satisfaction, and the immense help

which was given by the thickness of the leads in old glass, because

they prevented the rays from the different colours from blending

before they reached the eye, so that they arrived fresh at the brain

and gave full sense of pleasure. He thought that the leads ought

therefore to be thicker the further the windows were from the eye,

and that the want of leads was one reason why Munich-glass is so

unsatisfactory. I dabbled a little in stained glass, and he used

to prowl round my painting table, looking at the light through

the little glass samples which are the pallet of a glass painter.

He was pleased at having bits of his favourite colours cut off, and

carried them away to his study as precious possessions. When

we walked home from Pembroke Chapel on Sunday evenings in

summer he would lament that the Chapel had no colour, and

wish that the windows were full of rich glass, and the panels

on the walls were filled with fine painted colours. He took the
greatest delight in bright sunsets; he used to watch to see if

there were going to be any glow, and often walked with me up to

the turn, and past the nursery garden where he lodged when he

was first married, as we got a fine clear view of the west from that

place. The Krakatoa sunsets interested him very much, and also

the splendid colour prints of them in the Report published by the

Royal Society, which were made by Mr Dew-Smith at Cambridge;

he said that they were the finest colour prints that he had ever

seen.

      He was much interested too in some colour photography
shown at a Soiree of the Royal Society. One print was of a
cockatoo with its yellow crest; one of a horse all dappled like
a ripe chestnut, Much consideration was given to a photograph
sent him in which the chimneys of some houses had come out red.

22 HIS COLOUR-SENSE A STIMULUS TO EXPERIMENT

     One day he talked a long time about colours and Chevreul's
work on colour, because he found me admiring Chevreul's fine head

by Roty on a medal of the Academie des Sciences. It was a pity

no one was there who understood; but when those who understood

were there he often said nothing.

One Hallow E'en as we children sat burning nuts and salt he

came in and threw our precious salt upon the fire by pinches till
it was all gone, saying as he watched it burn, ' how beautiful ' ;

then suddenly noticing our disappointment he went to his study

for materials for finer flames. When we blew soap bubbles in the

garden, if he were passing he almost always joined our game, he

was so much interested in the colours and the varying duration of

the bubbles. He was interested in iridescent glass too and bought

vases of that sort.

   I am inclined to think that one of the exciting causes of his

experiments was a natural love of pure and beautiful colour ; and

in looking through the fourth volume of his Collected Papers for

reminiscences of past years it was interesting to find the following
"Ipassage at p. 264,
                      had no sooner looked at the spectrum than

the extreme sharpness and beauty of the absorption bands of blood

Iexcited a lively interest in my mind, and proceeded to try the

effect of various reagents." In another place he speaks of the
beautiful celestial blue given by quinine,--which gave the clue

to one of his greatest discoveries. He never got tired of that

particular blue, and always kept a large bottle of quinine in his

dressing-room as a family tonic, often calling us when he was
doling it out to sympathise with him over the lovely mysterious

colour. The exquisite crystals of carbolic acid also attracted his

admiration.

     He was very keen about the Academy and the Winter

Exhibition of Old Masters, and always went to see the pictures,
sometimes several times. His favourite time for seeing them was
before breakfast, as soon as the Exhibition opened*; he looked at

them for an hour or two, took a late breakfast and looked at them

again, until people began to arrive, when he departed to his work.

It was serious to play games with him, for in backgammon he

would pause to calculate chances and in bowls to consider the
mysteries of bias. He not only worked but played strenuously,
thoroughly, and with enthusiasm.

* He had then a room at the Royal Society, next door to the Academy.

                     INTEREST IN PUBLIC SHOWS  23

I He would be quite interested in little things; and when
   wondered why the hats of an acquaintance were so distractingly
lovely, he asked to have the lady pointed out, and after watching
her narrowly, told me that fundamental lines of beauty were
involved and that the hats illustrated the principle of double

curves.

     He was always very measured in his words, and this habit
came out strongly when he wrote testimonials. Moderation in
speech and conduct was one of the touchstones of his character,
as also that outcome of moderation, tolerance for the opinions

Iand views of others; but he had one or two strong expressions,

such as ' own it amazes me,' and would speak of ' astounding

notions.'

Perhaps because Skreen had been so quiet, and economy in

his early days so urgent, he had the freshest pleasure in shows

and exhibitions of all kinds, and often went on the pretext of

taking us children. One of my early recollections is his taking

me to see the Chinese giant Chang, and the terrible grief it was

to me to find that my father was not far taller, and how amused
Ihe was to find the cause of my woe.
                                           remember, too, our going

to see Japanese tight-rope dancers. He was greatly interested in

watching their progress across the Guildhall, and the wonderful

way in which they gracefully balanced themselves with paper fans

and umbrellas. He was evidently quite excited at seeing principles

of equilibrium so daringly demonstrated, and was surrounding the

tiny figures with imaginary angles, which they ought not to be

able to transgress.

     Many years afterwards we had a very entertaining afternoon

at the American "Wild West" show: he might have been a

Ischoolboy, aged twelve, out for a holiday, he so enjoyed himself.
   gently tried several times to dislodge him in order that we

might visit some Irish cousins, great friends who lived near Earl's

Court, but at each effort he said, "I think the next scene will
be interesting. It would be a pity for you to miss it." So we

stayed on till the end of the performance. He confessed afterwards

Ithat he had spent the whole of another afternoon there by himself;
this too at a very busy time in his life.  used to tell him that

it was in vain to try and persuade me that he spent all those long

days in the august shades of the House of Commons and Burlington

24 SIMPLICITY OF CHARACTER

House; then playful questioning would elicit that he had been to

Isee the oddest things. He used to say, "I was passing and
Ithought would just go in for a few minutes and see what it was

like," and further enquiry would perhaps reveal that he had sat
out several hours all by himself. He did not go to the theatre,
probably from habit and bringing up; but he never objected to
other people liking to go. His objections were without prejudice,
for he once took me to see moving photographs at one of the large
Music Halls in London; but when some of the rest of the enter
tainment seemed decidedly unexpected, on looking round at him

I saw that he was quite uncomfortable, and he said that, to make

sure, he had been that morning all the way to this Music Hall, and
had asked the Hall Porter if the afternoon performance would be
the sort of thing to take a lady to see, and that the porter had
said that the most particular lady could not object.

    It was striking that, having lived so long in the world, he

still always expected all sorts of people to adhere to the truth,
even to their own disadvantage. This was so much the case that
regular scamps used to get money from him by their plausible
tales. He had certain cottages to sublet which were leased to
him with his house ; but he permitted such obviously unsuitable
people to have them, that at last my mother persuaded him to put
the matter into the hands of an agent. One man, afterwards
discovered to have been in jail for getting money on false
pretences, used to waste a great deal of his time by talking for
 hours upon religious doubt ; but he did not at all enjoy this sort
 of person being unmasked.

      He was occasionally very dilatory about business, and would
 take quite a dislike to something he had to do. Having received
 Sir Isaac Newton's manuscript papers (mainly those on optical
 subjects) to arrange and catalogue*, he kept these precious
 documents so long that there was some anxiety as to whether
 they had been overlooked, and after letters had been written to
 him on the subject in vain, other members of his family had to
 be approached ; but this was during the busiest time in his life.

It was noticeable how he would occasionally put off some big

      [* The Portsmouth MSS., now deposited in the Cambridge University Library.
 A catalogue with descriptive preface was published in 1888 by a University Syndicate
 consisting of Luard, Stokes, Adams, and Liveing.]

            DISLIKE OF PROLONGED UNCONGENIAL                  27

piece of work which he knew he ought to grajumself awake ;

sometimes making other tasks in order to excuse ; did not go to

had only beeu given a few of Newton's papers at a'acation if

probably have got through them all by degrees': but, with
numerous other matters pressing for attention, he sometimes

got daunted by a large piece of work and quite began to hate    : it,

naturally more so the longer was deferred.

    It was the same with the editing of his own Collected Papers
it
                            it

                                          it
he felt most distinctly a great bother. Sometimes we asked

him where he had arrived in them and coaxed him to go on with

them, but he would complain that was very hard work, as so

much new work had been done since he first wrote his papers*      ;
yet all the time he was writing ardently on religious questions.

     He occasionally developed marked preferences for people. He

scarcely ever saw one lady friend without saying kind things of

her afterwards. When one of my husband's friends came from

town to vote, and had lunched with us, my father pronounced

emphatically that he had a fine presence, looked as he had good
                                                 if
ability and seemed very nice man. No one would have guessedif
that all these kindly observations were being made. He did not
if

                          a
often take these keen fancies for people, seldomer against them   ;

but there were anything droll in manner, they poured out
torrents of words, or gave an impression of special vanity or
egoism, he would be very much entertained, as appeared in little

amused twitches of his mouth, and reined-in smiles, with certain
                                                          a

twinkling of the eyes. We were often amused by the details he

noticed in people staying in the house, keen observation of
                                              a

which they were quite unaware because of his silence and apparent

absence of mind.

    In spite of his resolution and decision of character, he would

occasionally find    most difficult to make up his mind about
            ;
some trifle, as for instance, on which day to make a journey, or
some similar matter in which the pros and cons seemed to balanceit

about equally he would hesitate, and rehearse his reasons again

and again.

He would occasionally take very unexpected things much to

heart; once he was quite annoyed with me, in connexion with

     * The delay was occasioned largely by bis scruples about completing them anda
bringing them into line with more recent advances: thus the volumes container
considerable amount of very valuable new work.

24 PHYSICAL ENDURANCE

       ' P legalize marriage with a " Deceased Wife's Sister,"
         es
       \,ou  g with him to the station when he was going up
              Qommons debate on that question, asked him
       I,1
why there \\M to be no Bill for " Deceased Husband's Brother."

He was quite shocked and quoted texts from the Old Testament
and Jewish customs, and was not pleased at my quoting that " the
seven had her." But he was a little ruffled that day, for all his

feelings were against people intermarrying in this manner. He

had felt obliged to read up the subject, and had come to the

conclusion, against liis wish, that the Law needed alteration, and

that he must not vote against the change, and might even feel
obliged to vote in favour of it, dead against his inclination and

bias.

He never could have done all he managed to do as Member of

Parliament, Lucasian Professor, Secretary or President of the

Royal Society, and doing them all so hard, if it had not been for

his wonderful power of napping soundly on every likely or unlikely

occasion, in the House, in the train, at concerts or evening

meetings; yet he always managed to be awake when he ought
to be. He was never heavy after sleep, but wakened from

these short naps quite refreshed, and fully alive to all that was

going on. At night, too, he slept most excellently, never being

kept awake by business, importunate letters, or such things.

Another cause of his enduring hard work, as well as much

dining out, was his excellent digestion. Even when travelling

and happening upon strange or tough fare, it never seemed to

make ;he slightest difference to his health. He would get bad

chills, wet feet, rush to catch trains after dinner, and do anything

or everything that usually bowls over the average or even the

strong man, with perfect impunity.

     He hardly ever ate luncheon until he was eighty, and then

under protest. He usually breakfasted at nine o'clock, and had

nothing more until dinner at five o'clock. Then, as dinner was
gradually pushed to a later hour till it reached half-past seven, on

pressure being brought to bear he would accept a cup of tea and

a biscuit or piece of dry bread if it were taken to him.

     After dinner he drank strong tea -- two large cups at least at

about nine o'clock, and if he meant to sit up until half-past two

or three o'clock, as frequently happened, he liked to have a
" 3rown Jenny " and a kettle left with him, and would brew

ATTITUDE TOWARDS DISCOVERY  27

himself terribly strong tea late at night to keep himself awake ;
it never seemed to affect his nerves. As a rule he did not go to

bed before half-past twelve or one, except in Vacation if he
happened not to be very busy. It should be added that when he

was at home his breakfasts and dinners were not fancy, light
meals, but real and solid ; though when he travelled backwards
and forwards, questioning would bring out that he had dined at
the Athenaeum on two poached eggs, cheese and beer, or on
sausage rolls at the railway station. He drank two glasses of
beer with his dinner at home, besides a glass of port at dessert.

     When we were children we used to make him sing a drinking
song in praise of beer. He had only one other song, an imitation
of a very highly sentimental one, which a sister used to sing when

he was young. They were sung to an accompaniment of strum
ming on the table and were performed with great expression and
fun. When past eighty he performed them both for the edifica
tion of his little grand-daughter.

     In the year 1877 an Irish cousin came over to spend a long
visit with us. On hearing her express a wish to study Euclid

my father suddenly announced that he was going to try her paces,

and would take her for an hour every evening when he was at

Ihome, and that might come too. He read through the first book
of Euclid with her during the month of her sojourn with us. It
Iwas apparent during the first lesson that was keeping them
back, and that it was better to withdraw; but I felt most

wretched and abased at losing the chance of learning from him.
That night when bidding him good-night he kept my hand in
his and said he wished to talk to me. He first spoke of things not
mathematical which he wished me to study. He then gave me
the most beautiful account of the growth of knowledge, and said
that even the wisest people knew very little. He spoke of himself

as only apprehending slightly in advance of others, as standing on
the edge and looking into the unknown, and said that people were
then only born who would perhaps know far more than anyone

yet dreamt of. Then after speaking of human knowledge as it
had been and as it was, he passed on to imagine it in an infinite

degree, and from that to Divine Wisdom as the root of all things
which are or can be, and yet as willing to dwell in every creature
who in humility desired true wisdom.

28 PLAYFULNESS

     When a baby sister died he took me into the room where she
lay dead, -- for he thought it well to accustom people to the notion

of death early in life in order that they might cease to dread --
      it

                                                                                                                 ;

                                                             I
                                                                          if it,

                                                                                                                 a
and spoke of the immortality of the soul. He always inspired a

feeling of calm and security. One knew that his mind and heart

had some resting-place far from the troubles and changesof the world.

When    was becoming customary for the University Pro

fessors to admit lady students to their lectures someone wrote to

him asking for permission for the ladies to attend his lectures

also. He said that he had almost decided to refuse but begged

that he would take them, and asked him how he would feel

Mrs Somerville had asked him to teach her, and he would not.

At last he promised to admit them, and he became much in

terested in his lady students, and always knew how much they

understood. He was much amused by one. After the first
lecture he said, " She frowns "--after the second, " She frowning
;!
                                                                                     !

                                                                  is
                                                                                    is
horribly "--after the third, " Her forehead  one mass of corru
gations she won't be there next time " and she was not. But

some of the ladies got on splendidly, and he was much pleased

when a Newnham lady who had attended his lectures brought

him some original work which he approved.

wonder  those who worked with him had any idea how
I

                          ;

               if
                                     it

                                             is

                                                                 a
                                                                                                                            a
merry he could be. His humour was somewhat peculiar to him

self, and perhaps not quite developed in proportion to the rest

of his mind and the things which amused him did not always

amuse others, though they laughed with him because of the

sympathy which he always inspired. His fun belonged to
different order from that usual to grown-up person. Of course

this does not apply to his scientific jokes. It was interesting

to see him with Professor Clerk Maxwell, whose sense of humour

was of a very high order, and very varied. They were greatly

attached to each other, but  doubtful whether they had much

meeting-ground upon the humorous side of their characters.

     My father delighted in playing with my little white Pomeranian,
a dog called Pearl, of whom he made a great pet. This was a dog

of acute instincts, who in illness used to creep to my mother;

but when in high spirits he would fawn upon my father, begging

for game of romps, and then there often ensued wild races round
a

                                                                         it
the garden. As children we sometimes thought that was papa

                SEA-SIDE AMUSEMENTS                 29

who had " fits of the funnies," and sometimes that they originated

Iwith Pearl. My father and were walking with Pearl one day

when he was run over by a cart, and he carried the dying dog

home most tenderly. Then we buried him in the garden, but

first my father went to the house for something white to wrap
the little dog in, because he thought it would be so sad to see

the dark earth fall upon his pretty white fur.

    I remember one delightful day when we had to walk from

Port Ballintrae, near the Giant's Causeway on the coast of Antrim,

to Portrush, where we were to attend a picnic and then walk back.

Before going he was anxious to make some experiments on waves
in a cave near Portrush, which could only be reached by boat

at high water, or at low water by wading. It was such a pretty

cave that he offered to carry me in on his back, and it may be
imagined that the offer was accepted. He tucked up his trousers
aud waded in with a stick. We had a most delightful time in

this lovely cave. He worked away at his waves, so that we waited

rather long, and the tide was quite high when we set off back

Iagain. The rocks and stones were slippery with seaweed, and

made him laugh unguardedly. Presently, plump we went in, and
being wet all over thought we might just as well amuse ourselves in

the water awhile. Anyhow, with the best intentions we had safely

avoided that picnic, a severe form of entertainment even in Ireland.

He was very fond of walking on the Velvet Strand near

IMalahide when we stayed with his sister Elizabeth, and we often
walked all along it and back with bare feet.        was for burying

our boots and setting up a stone to mark the spot, but he thought

it more prudent to retain them, so that in case we saw correct

persons approaching they might be hastily resumed.
     He said that he dreamed a good deal until he went to school,

but little afterwards ; he thought that frequent dreams showed
that the mind wanted exercise. Yet in after-life, when his mind

was certainly busy enough, he sometimes had queer dreams. Once,
for instance, that he arrived at the North Pole, where he found a

young lady sitting on a large iceberg, very elegantly dressed, and
sheltering herself from the rays of a hot sun with a pink parasol ;

he then quoted  The sun's perpendicular rays
                Illumined the depths of the sea,
                And fishes cried out in amaze,

                Oh! bless us, how hot we shall be.

 30 SUMMER HOLIDAYS

     In spite of this dream, he maintained that the South Pole
would be much more interesting to explore than the North Pole
and would give a better scientific return.

     He used sometimes to be rather entertained by his travelling
experiences, and by the way in which persons who recognised him
through having seen his photographs introduced themselves.
One occasion in particular amused him, when a fellow traveller,
after a long conversation, glancing at the name on his hat-box,
congratulated himself on having had the honour of making the
acquaintance of the illustrious author of The Art of Memory.

      Every Long Vacation we spent about a month with his
brother, William Stokes, Rector of Denver, near Downham Market
in Norfolk, a very charming old man, a delightful talker and a
member of the " Family," an old Cambridge Dining Club. He
was a gentleman of the old school, who always wore a top hat,
a very high stock collar, and Wellington boots. His tastes were
scientific, and being much the elder brother he found it difficult
to remember that little George had become a most eminent
scientific man ; and certainly he was never reminded of it by my
father, who used to venture to differ from him in the most
deferential and gentle manner. While there we went for long
drives, drawn in the old carriage at the very slowest rate by the
ancient and fat horse, to visit the fine churches and view the flat

and picturesquely wooded country.
      Later in the Long Vacations we always went over to stay

at the Observatory at Armagh, and afterwards went with the
Armagh party to some seaside place, oftenest the magnificent
neighbourhood of the Giant's Causeway, or occasionally some
other equally quiet locality. My father got through a good deal
of work at these times, giving the morning and evening to
spending the afternoon in long walking expeditions, and climbing,

   there were anything to climb. He would scramble along the
Spanish Path and other dangerous cliff paths on the face of the
Causeway rocks, to my mother's considerable anxiety, showing
us afterwards from the sea the little thread-like tracks he had

been along.
     There was a cave called the Land Cave which we always

visited after storms had been ploughing up the Atlantic. It had

   sort of window opening into from the land, so that we could
a if
                                             it

                                                                                                      it,

OBSERVATIONS ON SEA-WAVES  31

see the great waves come in, making the cave dark ; it was
striking to see such great masses of water fall without sound
upon a bed of foam. He made a good mauy wave-observations
there, not about steep sea-waves, for that was much earlier, but

I think he was trying to find out the relation of the waves to one

another and why the ninth wave was so much larger than the
others. He told me that he was nearly carried away by one of
these great waves when bathing as a boy off the coast of Sligo,
and this first attracted his attention to waves. Once after a

great storm we found a number of the shells of the Ianthena
Communis, a sort of purple snail with a nautilus-like float.
He said it was a member of the same family from which the
Tyrians made their purple dye : we tried to dye linen and wool
with them but only succeeded in dyeing our cuffs well. We often
explored the coast and looked for the fairy pools in the rocks
where the water was so clear that you could examine the sea-
anemones and the waving seaweed. He delighted in the unusual
geology of the place with its strange basaltic columns, and would

wonder if they went under the sea and came out at Staffa and

Iona. The fisher folk, fine manly fellows who sailed along that
inhospitable shore at great personal risk, would bring us their
queerest fish, like the Gar-fish with its pale green bones and the
Devil-fish. They used to come for advice as to how to race their

heavy boats and make them slip through the water, and those who
took the " Professor's " advice won at the regattas and got their
fish first to market. He visited one of these fishermen often

during one vacation ; the man had lost his eye in a fight, and was
suffering great pain of body and agony of mind.

     Foreign travel was not then so much the fashion as it is now ;
and after his wedding tour in Switzerland he only once or twice
went abroad in order to represent the University or receive a

degree.

     My mother sketched well in pencil. After an illness in 1880
she went to stay at Hastings and writes from there in April, " The

Iwaves are so flat and undefined to-day can get nothing sure

out of them." He was evidently working at waves that year, and
employing her to sketch them.

     About the year 1882 we had much amusement over some
experiments he made while on the Madras Harbour Commission,

32 INTEREST IN NATURAL PHENOMENA

which sat to discover how the Harbour should be rebuilt, so that

the tremendous seas coming into the Bay of Bengal should not

Isweep it away. He had a long wooden trough made, and got

heavy little bricks -- of lead, think --with which to build the
harbour, my part being to demolish his work with waves of

varying magnitude, while he timed the resisting power of the

uucemented harbour, building it at different angles. The work

of wave-destruction was done with a rake without teeth, which

fitted the width of the trough. We used this apparatus near
the garden tap, which was provided with a hose, and we usually
worked with bare feet, as boots soon got soaked through upon
the sopping grass. Previously, in 1873, when we were staying
near Portpatrick in Wigtonshire, he had studied with intense
interest the action of the waves in demolishing the harbour
that had been constructed at great cost on that exposed coast.

     In 1874 we ascended Slieve Donard when staying at Newcastle,
County Down, getting a magnificent view of shining ranks of

great cumulus clouds beneath, when he talked a good deal about
cloud-formation. He usually talked far more in vacation than in
term time; he was less busy; then too he loved the beauty of nature,

and it seemed as if the novelty of things round him kept his mind

at its out-posts where things enter by the senses, and so made
communication easier to him.

     He was much interested, as also was Prof. Clerk Maxwell
about the same time, in cat-turning, a word invented to describe

the way in which a cat manages to fall upon her feet if you hold

her by the four feet and drop her, back downwards, close to the
floor*. The cat's eyes were made use of, too, for examination by
the ophthalmoscope, as well as those of my dog Pearl: but Pearl's
interest never equalled that of Professor Clerk Maxwell's dog, who
seemed positively to enjoy having his eyes examined by his master.

     He always took the keenest interest in thunderstorms, and
used to make us anxious by the way in which he stood out in the
garden to watch them, especially in the great storm of 1889,
of which his house and the Roman Catholic Church seemed the
centre. He would go any distance to see houses and trees that
had been struck, and did his best to extract their sensations from

people who had been rendered unconscious by lightning.

     [* A few years ago this subject excited attention in France, and the dynamical
explanations were set forth afresh in the Comptes Rendus.]

ATTITUDE TOWARDS SCIENTIFIC SPECULATION                                    33

     He was very much interested about earthquakes and earth
quake waves. When Mont Pelée in Martinique erupted, and
40,000 people were killed, and St Pierre destroyed, he sat for long
spells thinking about it and the conditions of the earth which
caused it. He bought all the newspapers with accounts of the

disaster, but considered that the account given in Pearson's

Magazine for September, 1902, written by an eyewitness, Captain
E. William Freeman, of the steamship Roddam, was by far the
best. He bought several copies at once to send to friends.

    In 1902 he was also strongly attracted by photographs sent
him by Mr F. H. Neville and Mr Heycock, showing the structure
of thin sections of an alloy quenched at different temperatures,

and would sit looking at them and comparing them for long times.
Even in his latest days he was always ready for anything new.

    It was interesting to notice in my father's discussions with

scientific men the horror he had of theorizing from unproved
facts ; he would always say, " But have you proved your facts?" and
then would often show them that this had not been done. He
could not bear " scientific romancing," as he called it.

     He had a strong admiration for Charles Darwin's character

and patient research, but could not understand the way in which,
as he thought, scientific men had accepted the theory of evolution

before the chain of evidence was completed : he used to say that

this surprised him exceedingly, and that he knew of no similar
instance in the history of scientific thought.

When we were children our great day was Sunday, because

my father was usually at home on that day and less busy. He

would take us for long walks on those afternoons, and read and

talk with us in the evening. He was always very fond of reading

aloud. He did not read poetry well, always, whatever the line,

bringing out the last word strongly to make sure of the rhyme,

which had a jingling effect ; he read us one or two of Keble's

Hymns every Sunday evening. But he read prose beautifully,

and in particular interpreted The Pilgrim's Progress for us in

the most charming way; he had an immense admiration for it,

and illustrated it by his own experiences in travelling and walk

ing amongst the mountains. When he came to the Fair and
IFlourishing Professor,               " That's              "
                         called  out            you,  Papa        and  we  all
                                                               ;

laughed so much whenever he came to the name, and he had such

s. b. i.                                                               3

34 LITERARY INTERESTS

difficulty in keeping his own countenance, that the reading had to
be abandoned for that evening ; for he said that it was a book

which should be read with gravity, as it was written by a
good man about holy things. So he told us instead the story of
Bunyan's life, and of how he had suffered for the right to think

as he chose, and how he had long lain in Bedford Gaol, not far

from Cambridge.

We often walked round by the Roman Road to Trumpington,

and often to the Observatory to see Professor and Mrs Adams.

He was also very fond of taking the Cherryhinton round, to hear
the larks sing in the fields, which have since been covered with
houses. Or we would walk by Madingley and Girton, when he

would sometimes repeat Gray's Elegy by Madingley Church,

I think the only piece of poetry not a hymn which he knew by

heart.

     He had had very little time for general reading ; but he had a
very high opinion of books like Hooker's Ecclesiastical Polity
and Locke's Human Understanding, which he had chosen in early

years as Pembroke College prizes. Once when we were reading
a History of the Inquisition he took it up and became quite

absorbed, speaking often of it afterwards with horror. He spent

a good deal of time in perusing doctrinal books which were sent

him by the authors.
     He had two really wicked characteristics, that he would never

allow anyone to help him with his work, not even permitting

invitations to be answered for him, and that he kept every single

thing he received by post, even advertisements.  His study was

enough to drive any housemaid " wild." He used gradually to

acquire tables from the rest of the house, until there were as

many tables as the room would hold, with narrow passages

between, through which to squeeze if you could. On these tables

papers were piled a foot or more deep. It may be imagined

that, keeping everything, he could find nothing. One remembers

the hunts there used to be before he went to Loudon, every

person in the house sometimes eulisted. It always began by

his hunting alone and refusing all help rather fiercely. Then

gradually, as the quest grew more desperate, the rejected suitors
fell quietly into the ranks. Sometimes it was grim earnest, and

the necessity was urgent ; as for instance when one of the Gifford
Lectures was missing, and it was nearly time to catch the only

EXPERIMENTAL AND LITERARY ACCUMULATIONS        35

train that would connect with the mail, if he were to arrive in
Edinburgh in time to deliver it. At last it was discovered, but

only in the nick of time, in the round basket of an aged relative,
which was called ever after " the magpie's nest," and came in for

first search on subsequent occasions. When the study and the

inner study had reached a state of repletion, my mother would

wait for the Royal Society day, Thursday, for then he was often

away for two nights or so, don apron and sleeves, and fall upon
those rooms, when clothes-baskets full of unnecessary matter

would be removed. Then for a long time afterwards we were

considered the cause of the disappearance of every missing object

or paper. We often presented him with letter-cases and other
domestic inducements to tidiness, but they were usually found

empty, or with things quite unimportant inside. Those home

comings after clearances always reminded us of the scene in the

Antiquary when Oldbuck finds his study being cleaned. But
we endeavoured not to be caught red-handed, and even if we

had safely finished, hung the head and went softly.

    I used to go with him to his lecture-room sometimes to help

to look for things, or to assist in hanging strings and wires to
break the echo to which it was subject.

Then of course both in his lecture-room and in his study at

home he made strange infusions which smelt horribly, horse-

chestnut bark and leaves and all sorts of other things, at one

period bullock's and sheep's blood for his experiments, not even
fresh but kept for ages in soup plates close to where he wrote.
He never seemed to notice bad smells; once when we had .the

planks up in the dining-room for a horrible smell which he said

only existed in our imaginations, we found a dead mother rat and
her young immediately under his chair. After this, it seemed

right to be more firm, as these things, though inoffensive to him

apparently, might harm his health.

The late Queen's Jubilees were occasions which he thoroughly

enjoyed, for like all Irishmen of his way of thinking, he was a
Ivery loyal subject.
                      accompanied him to the first in 1887, which

was also the jubilee year of the electric telegraph, and he enjoyed
it keenly, from the Procession to the cruise in the Admiralty
launch around the fleet at Portsmouth and the illumination of

the fleet in the evening : getting back to bed at three o'clock in
the morning was not of the slightest consequence in his eyes.

                                         3--2

36 BUSINESS RELATIONS

It was the same at the Naval Review, after the King's Coronation,

to which my husband accompanied him: he would not hear of

going home until everything had been seen and done.
     Lord Kelvin's visits were occasions of enjoyment to him, and

great were the discussions between them, which anything served
to begin ; for instance, the eggs were always boiled in an egg-
boiler on the table, and Lord Kelvin would wish to boil them by

mathematical rule and economy of fuel, with preliminary measure

Iment by the millimetre scale, and so on.      think the nearest

     He had no love of sport of any kind, and

he ever got to fishing was once on the coast of Antrim, when he

got limpets and baited my hook, and took the fish off the hook,

carrying the seventeen home in his silk pocket-handkerchief.

The absence of mind which was noted in him as a child

remained in later years. Once after he had been spending several

days as a guest in a country-house, when we enquired if he had

liked his hostess, he said she was very kind and pleasant ; but we

found that he had never discovered whether she were the wife or

daughter of the house.

     Naturally people often came to see him on business, and it

was very interesting to observe his method of getting through that
kind of work. He had a way of reducing business to its simplest

expression, and then sticking to the point whatever other people
said. His charity was that which thinketh no evil, and he was so

far above the petty jealousies of everyday life, that even when in

the midst of them he would be totally unconscious of their existence.

This must often have been useful in keeping the mind in a serene

state of calm : still, it must occasionally be easier to decide or guide, if
the conditions of other people's minds can be clearly seen, even if they

prove an unpleasing prospect. He was so totally unaware of small-
mindedness that it made him quite sad to have it pointed out.

      Perhaps what most differentiated him from other men in his

tone of mind was the blending of the active and the passive
attitudes towards life ; one does not often find the resolute

active enthusiastic spirit blended with calm aloofness and power

of cool judgment. It seemed that at any moment and in the

hurry of business he could withdraw into himself to decide on the
best course of action or of thought.

     He naturally much disliked to find that others had been

              INTEREST IN THE ROYAL SOCIETY  37

angry with him for doing business in what he considered the
Iright way. On one occasion in particular
                                           remember that a

gentleman came to see him about the publication of a friend's

work through the Royal Society. It was interesting to hear the

different lines of argument, my father's very simple, quietly and

calmly repeated opinion, that the work was not good enough, the

visitor's varied arguments becoming finally rather heated. When

Ithe visitor finding it useless had gone, asked him if he had

happened to notice that the man had left in a very bad temper.

My father hitched his chair and got rather red, and seemed aware

for the first time that this had been the case. He said, looking

Imost uncomfortable, " thought that he seemed a little warm, but

that he could not possibly be angry with me about what was

purely a matter of business." Then he became somewhat roused
"Itand said,  is most unjust! " We then went out walking, and

he talked for a long time on the subject, but naturally without

any personal bias. He gave me a most eloquent lecture on the

Royal Society, its foundation, growth, position in England, position
in the world, and spoke of the misfortune which it would be to

Science if it ever departed from its isolated position, or got

entangled socially or politically, or ever published anything for

any reason than its first-rate excellence. When he ended, for

it lasted from before we left Lensfield Cottage until past

Trumpington, he remarked that he gave up an immense amount

of time to the improvement of hopeful work, but that he could

not make bad work good.

The same personal feeling which some people have about

others or themselves was applied by him to institutions or societies,

a strong sort of intimate affection and regard. He naturally felt
it particularly towards the Royal Society, with which he had so

long an official connection. Elected Fellow in 1851 he was made

a Member of the Council in 1853, and was appointed one of the

Secretaries in 1854, an office which he held until 1885, when he

was elected President. He remained President for five years, and

for two years longer was a member of the Council, on which

he had therefore sat for thirty-nine consecutive years when he

withdrew in 1892. In the following year the Council took the

first opportunity that was open to them, to confer on him the

Copley Medal, which is the crowning award of the Society.

    In later years, as he grew older, the continued marks of special

38 AFFECTION FOR PEMBROKE COLLEGE

appreciation from learned societies, such as the Arago Medal from
the Institute of France, specially struck and sent over with the
deputation to his Jubilee celebration, and last of all the Helmholtz
Medal from the Berlin Academy, gave him great pleasure and

satisfaction.

     Besides the Royal Society he had this feeling of great affection
and keen personal gratitude in a high degree for Pembroke College.
He often told us of all he owed to Pembroke, and of how his

re-election to a fellowship had helped him and given him ease
and liberty for his own work and investigations. He always
delighted in speaking of the great and good men who had
belonged to his College : and one of the books which he was
reading a short time before his death was the Life of Bishop
Ridley. When any Pembroke man did well in the mathematical
examinations, Tripos or Smith's Prize, it gave him the most lively

Ipleasure. He delighted in showing friends over the College, and

would often say, "Don't take them to Pembroke. will show them
that myself," and this even when he was very busy.

      When he had business to do with people he almost always went
to them instead of their coming to him. Whether it was because
he was prompt and got to them while they were still meditating

on coming to him I don't know, but it would happen with persons far

younger than himself.
     People may hold different views with respect to the amount

of time which he gave to the study of the question of Conditional
Immortality and cognate theological topics, on which it is well
known that he held opinions of his own. To some it may seem
that as nothing can ever be proved objectively about these things,
however interesting, it was time taken from what was the real
work of his life, the search for absolute truth regarding Natural
Phenomena, truth which is capable of being demonstrated.
Indeed, considering the enormous amount of time and thought
which he gave to correspondence and discussion relating to
religious questions, and in science to improving the work of
others, it must always seem amazing how he found time for his

own investigations.
     His attitude to the Royal Society is brought out in the

following letter to his father-in-law, which has been passed on to
me by Professor Larmor.

TENURE OF OFFICE AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY                     39

                         Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

My dear Dr Robinson,     \st December, 1877.

           ISomehow or other time has slipped by and have
Inot yet sent you the plottings contemplated. My hands have

been as usual full with one thing or another and this matter

I felt did not press.
   IAnd now must ask you to excuse me if for the present

I drop anemometry and pass to a subject concerning myself and
Imy family, about which must come to a decision before long,

though there is no occasion for an immediate conclusion.

   I have now held the Secretaryship of the Royal Society for

a long time, having yesterday been re-elected for the 23rd time,
Iand having therefore entered on my 24th year of office.
                                                          don't

look on a post of that kind, which is continued by re-election, and

which is hardly regarded as honorary (though since the raising

Iof the stipend from £100 to £200 think there is a very fair

remuneration), like a professorship which one is expected to hold
Ifor life, or so long as one's powers last.
                                             have always felt that
I ought to anticipate rather than otherwise any wish on the part

of the Society for a change in the office.

   I have no reason to suppose that any such wish is felt at
Ipresent in my case.     asked Mr White confidentially if he had
heard any expression of a wish that I should make way for fresh

Iblood, and he said not ; that on the contrary the Fellows seemed

to be very well content with me. Still can't help thinking that

for a non-life office 24 years' tenure is a very long one.
     What precedes is by way of introduction to the immediate

question. When the office of President was last vacant there was

a division of opinion as to whether there should be an under

standing that the office should be held for a limited number only

of years, say 4 or 5, or whether when we had got a President we

had best keep him so long as he is fit for work and does not feel

the duties too onerous.

The majority of those who had to decide were in favour of the

shorter tenure. Such was Hooker's view when he took office.

He himself considered that 5 years was about the thing.

He has now intimated to the Officers, and expressed his

intention of intimating to the new Council, his wish that that

40 PRESIDENCY OF ROYAL SOCIETY

view should be acted on. As yet it has not gone beyond the

Officers.

     Before the meeting of the Council yesterday Sir Joseph
Hooker told me that the Officers were strongly of opinion that

I would be the proper person to succeed to the office. After the

dinner Huxley, sitting behind me on a sofa where we were by
ourselves, strongly pressed it upon me to express my willingness

to accept the office.

     Among other solutions there is one which will occur to every
body. For a combination of exalted social position with the
highest moral and intellectual qualities the Duke of Devonshire

Istands pre-eminent. He is universally respected, and if we come to

have a nobleman at all think that he is par excellence the man.

    I think, however, that many would feel that our President

ought to be a man who would really work for the Society, and that
we could hardly expect of a man in the Duke's position. Though

Iin good health he is getting advanced in years, and I confess
   much doubt whether he would now consent to take the office.

      Then there is Spottiswoode, who was one of those talked of on

Ithe last occasion. Of the two am probably the better known as

a man of science, but he has the advantage of a fortune which
would enable him to show hospitality to distinguished foreign
savants, which his residence in London would enable him to do.

      However as the office has been pressed upon me by my

Icolleagues, and think it probable that the Council might make

the same suggestion, at least if they had any inkling of what

had been in the minds of the Officers, the practical question
is (supposing at least the Duke not available) what answer

I should give.
    Of course I feel that it would be a great honour, the highest

Ior one of the highest scientific posts in the country. But then
    have a wife and family depending on me, and mainly a life
income, and the Presidentship would involve of course the

Isurrender of the £200 which should have so long as I held the

Secretaryship, besides some positive outlay (though not to any

great amount) attending the position. Besides I am naturally

of rather a retiring character, and should feel not a little out of
my element in being brought so prominently forward. On the

Iother hand, if am deemed the fitting person (and I am not the
one to judge of that) my duty to the Society of which I have so

                     SOCIABLE DISPOSITION                      41

long held the Secretaryship would seem to require me to consent ;

and having now an endowed professorship and a fellowship as

Iwell, ought to be able to dispense with the salary of Secretary.

    I have now pretty well put before you the pros and cons, and

should be glad to know your feeling in the matter.

                                  Yours affectionately,

                                           G. G. STOKES.

IP.S.  mean to sound Cambridge F.R.S.s. to see whether

there is anything of a general feeling here in favour of the

Duke of Devonshire.

Although of a very quiet and silent disposition, he by no

means liked being alone ; he would often bring his work into

the drawing-room in the evening, and had a folding-table kept

close to the door of that room so that he could work in family

surroundings. He did not like the talk to stop on his account ;

indeed his power of concentration prevented its being a worry

to him ; it just seemed to reach him as a cheerful and soothing
buzz. Still it was interesting to note that one never knew

when he was listening; and the most unexpected subjects occa

sionally arrested his attention, when he would launch suddenly

into the conversation in the intervals of his work.

He had a great love of parties and public functions of all kinds,
Iand rarely refused invitations.
                                  used laughingly to tell him that

whether it were a wedding or a funeral did not make the slightest

difference. This keen sympathy with human joys and griefs was

characteristic of him ; it was felt even towards those with whom

he was but slightly acquainted, and he sometimes expressed a wish

that he had the power of conveying his sympathy in words.

When friends were ill he would often go to see them and

sit with them quite a long time. His fondness for frequent

church-going on Sunday seemed to have its root in this same

turn for companionship and good-fellowship, especially when

linked by union of action or idea. But we used to wish that

after the labours of the week he would not go three or even four

times to church the same day, --including the University Sermon,

of which playful questioning would sometimes reveal that he had

heard remarkably little. He rarely went to church on week-days

except on special occasions, Ash Wednesday, Good Friday, etc.

42 REMINISCENCES OF EARLY LIFE

    It was one of the greatest disappointments of my youthful

Ilife that never went with my father to visit Skreen. He had

been there once alone when I was too small to go, and he used

Ioften to talk to me of his happy child-life, and of returning to

visit the dear place again, and always begged that we might

go there together. It seemed odd that we never went, as for

many years a good part of every Long Vacation was spent in
Ireland. At last, one Long Vacation, he said that he would take
me to visit his old home. Then, just as it was all settled, they

sent him piles of papers to look over from the Royal Society, and

our interesting plan fell to the ground. It was very disappointing,

for had we walked together in those old places always so dear to

him, he would have told me much about his early years, and

I should perhaps have better understood how lie came to be all

he was. His early life always seemed more interesting to him
than his undergraduate days. What probably made it difficult

to extract reminiscences from him about his past life was that

ithe did not feel interested inas most people would, because

             a
                                                   it,

                                                                                           a;
                                                                                                     is
was part of himself. He was always much more inclined

to talk about things quite outside himself than of things connected

with him, and this not perhaps so much from natural shyness

and reticence as because he was not very much interested in

the latter. Anything in the shape of natural phenomena was a

different matter, and on such he would enlarge at great length,

even to the uninitiated.

As the amount of writing he had to do grew steadily greater,

one shoulder grew somewhat higher than the other he had slight

congenital malformation of both little fingers; they crooked in

wards, and this served to make writing more difficult to him.
At last he consented to try the key-board of a writing machine,

and tapped away one Long Vacation until he was sure that he

could acquire the art. This typing machine was great boon to

him and to his correspondents, as his handwriting had become

very difficult to read.

     The impersonal quality of mind already mentioned perhaps

rare, even amongst men of thought. It gave him great restfulness

in active affaire, and saved him much wear and tear. He was not
troubled by fear of what others might think of his actions and his

work, and this gave simplicity and unity to his life. It was not

PUBLIC AND SCIENTIFIC HONOURS  43

solely strength of character, but arose in great measure from

conscientiousness and the continual habij; of feeling himself in

the presence of God. It was very interesting to be quietly at

home with him during the time his Jubilee was being celebrated
by the University. He was so absolutely simple about it all,
enjoyed it all so thoroughly and in such a perfectly un-selfconscious
way. He thought it most kind of people to take so much trouble
in getting it up, and in coming such distances in order to be

present ; but there was no mock modesty ; he accepted their
judgment as it was offered. This mixture in his character of

profound modesty and humility with perfect consciousness of his
own place in the scientific world was remarkable. He thought
very little about himself, but when he did think he thought truly
and impersonally. Naturally, during his Jubilee he subtracted
a great deal from himself and placed it to the count of science.

Anyhow, he went through those days most peacefully and emerged
from them quite fresh. The following morning he was off early
for the annual official Visitation of Greenwich Observatory.

      The crowning pleasure in receiving his honours was that my
mother, though in weak health, experienced the joy of seeing

them bestowed upon him. She died the following December,

and afterwards he lived with us.

    It has been remarked that he was the first President of the        v

Royal Society, and, far more curious, the first scientific man, who
represented either University in Parliament since Sir Isaac
Newton ; and he was elected after an interval of two centuries,

minus two months, succeeding Beresford Hope in 1886 when sixty-
seven years of age.

    It was also subject of remark that, in those times of Irish

political disturbance the " House " at last saw a silent Irish
member; Sir George Paget, in seconding his nomination, had
said that the House would have an opportunity of seeing how

good a thing a good Irishman is. It may be remembered how

Macaulay records the fact that, when his great predecessor Sir
Isaac Newton was Member for his University, he made no speeches:
" he sat there in his modest greatness, the unobtrusive but un

flinching friend of civil and religious freedom." It has been said

that Newton only once opened his lips in the House of Commons,
on which occasion he rose and said, " Sir, would you have a window

a44 YEARS IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS

            itopened ?" Had my father spoken on this subject, he would
                               it,certainly have asked to have the window shut ; for, considering
what a hardy man he always was, he had the most curious dislike
                                                                                   aof open windows all his life.

                                                                                                                              ;He had grave doubts as to whether he should accept the
                                                                                                                                                                            ;invitation to stand for the University. He felt that there were
many objections to one of them being that the President of the
itRoyal Society should be entirely outside politics; but though he
never wavered in his personal political views he felt that the
       arepresentative of one of the ancient Universities held an ex
                                  aceptional position, and, consenting to stand, he was elected without

                                                                        ;contest. He very much enjoyed the debates certainly he was
in the House during a very interesting time in politics, especially

for an Irishman. It interested him greatly to hear Gladstone

and, having gone into Parliament with perfect horror of his
politics, was amusing to note the gradual change that set in,
and the enormous admiration which he felt for Gladstone's elo

quence and power, and the sense he had of the strong personal
magnetic influence which he exercised.

      One day especially his silence in the House was remarked.
Some scientific question had come up, and still he said nothing.
When we afterwards asked him why, he answered that he had
been prepared to rise, but that another person had obviously

wished to speak and had said enough, although he had treated
the subject from different stand-point from that which he should
have himself adopted. Only one member beat him in regularity
of attendance, Sir Richard Temple, who, however, lived in London.

      To some may seem a pity that he entered Parliament; for
he was so conscientious that what had probably only been intended
 as a general retainer became close tie, and his silent services in
 the House were given at the cost of a great deal of time, which
 was taken from his own work, while his constant attendance

 involved considerable bodily fatigue. Altogether, as years ran on,
 he was left very little time for himself when his services were
 requisitioned to assist scientific investigations, the appropriateness
 was obvious; but Church reform, questions of belief, politics,
 University legislation, etc., all claimed his time and involved
 continual committees, and constant streams of letters which he

 always most dutifully answered, and to very dull people, often at

 great length.

ANXIETY ABOUT PREPARATION OF LECTURES  45

     He was very ambitious about everything he did, and desired to
do it thoroughly well and to excel ; but because he was not
ambitious in the ordinary way and for the usual objects, people

were not probably quite aware of it. It was this mixture of

intense but exalted ambition joined with great conscientiousness
which spurred him on ; for though he was eager and energetic by
temperament and custom, yet there was a substratum of inertia

and procrastination which he always fought against. Often after
dinner, reading the newspaper and the subsequent games of

Ibackgammon, still basking by the fire, he would say, " How lazy

  feel, but I must go and work !" then with a little discontented

grunt and lazy stretch he would ptdl himself together and go.
He sometimes spoke of this native slothfulness, but indeed it did
not get much chance, and only got its head up in occasional

procrastination.
     He always had a difficulty in lecturing, and felt considerable

anxiety about it. Even his professorial lectures, to which it might
have been thought he would have become accustomed by long use,
worried him, and he was anxious as to whether he was getting on
too quickly, whether his class were following his lectures and his
experiments, and was evidently always afraid of sinking his level
by the staleuess of custom. On our walks, when it was noticeable
that he was deeply pondering and must not be disturbed, after he
emerged from his long fit of abstraction he would not infre
quently say that he had been thinking about his lectures and
deciding on his course, and how he should present his subject
attractively ; and afterwards he would sometimes show that he

was depressed about his lectures and thought them a failure. On
the other hand, he would be quite gay when he had a specially
nice class, and would thoroughly enjoy his course. But any single
 lecture or course of special or popular lectures was a thorn in his

side, and worried and tired him more than anything else. It

seemed that he thought that other people had some extremely
high standard, would expect so much, and be so likely to be

 disappointed.

     He was always ready to enter into correspondence with any
one on religious subjects, even with uneducated people, and felt
great compassion for those who endeavoured to lead upright
lives, though unaided by faith in any revealed religion. But he

46 THEOLOOICAL VIEWS

could think of the complete annihilation of evil-doers with what

seemed a curious indifference ; it appeared that he regarded
it as a simple and an almost satisfactory arrangement. When

asked how the good who loved bad people were going to manage

to be happy in Paradise, he would answer that we only love people

for the good we find in them, and that if we were once for all

convinced that there was no good in them we should cease to love

them. It was in vain to argue the absolute mixture of good and

evil in ourselves, and all the difficulties which come from people

who are bad because they never really had any chance to be good,

and how some spiritual Purgatory might fit the real state of a real

world far better, or to use a better word, a state of spiritual

evolution after death. But if any came to him with difficulties

of conscience or belief he would give much time to writing or

talking with them, and would as it were take them by the hand

and endeavour to lead their minds into some quiet place.
     His views with respect to the condition of the soul after death

formerly gave much offence in certain circles; he began such

Iconsiderations long ago, when thirty-two years of age. On several

occasions have heard him preached against by the clergymen of

the churches which we chanced to attend in Vacation. It was

curious to note the unruffled calm with which he would listen on

Isuch occasions. Once heard a very humorous sermon preached

in the University Church by an Irish Bishop who referred to
" the process of ossification which goes on in a Senior Wrangler's

heart," and saw Mrs Adams, Mrs Cayley, and my mother peeping

at one another under their bonnets.

He was a great student of the Bible, particularly of the New

Testament, which he often read in Greek. He would often speak

of the journey to Emmaus as a passage which particularly

attracted him. Two subjects, already referred to, interested him

particularly. One was the question of the Immortality of the
Soul, on which he held the belief that it does not inherit im

mortality as a right, but as a supernatural gift from God, and

                            it,
                                                                it
that Christ died to obtain  but could only obtain                   for those

who were good, or being bad had repented before death. The

other subject was the State of the Soul between Death and

Judgment. This period he believed to be passed in a state of

absolute unconsciousness, which he illustrated by having ex

perienced fainting-fits. He held that the soul would awake to

       ACTIVITY IN CHURCH AFFAIRS  47

the Judgment and gain Eternal Life or absolute annihilation
according to its deserts. This seems a rather dreary creed,

not likely even to be very consoling for those who were good.
But like some other theologians his actions and his character

quite belied his creed. Had he become a lawyer, as he was once

Iadvised, and had he attained the Bench, cannot imagine his

calm condemnation of even the most hardened sinner to mortal

death. It seems certain that he would always have wished him

to be imprisoned and to have another chance of being better.

Once near the end of his life, on being asked if he did not think

that Paradise would consist in a greater power of devoted love

and in being always with those we love without any fear of
separation, he answered that he thought that perhaps the Soul
would be so absolutely centred in God and in worship of His
perfection that it would have no perception of anything else.

     As a member of the Lay House of Convocation he entered
into questions of Church Reform, and was very anxious that
some abuses should be corrected, particularly the disparity in
the endowment of livings and the difficulty in the removal
from their charges of clergy who led evil lives. He desired the
necessity for signing the Thirty-nine Articles to be abolished and
the Athanasian Creed to be altered. He wrote a short paper on
Polygamy in connection with Christian Missions ; it seemed to
him wrong that women and children should suffer from the intro
duction of Christian teaching on the subject of Marriage, and he

thought that a man who already had several wives ought not to
put them away, for he had entered into a bond with them before

he was taught Christianity.

   IIn the spring before he died my husband and were pruning

the lower branches of our copper beech, and we noticed that the
young leaves exposed to the light were of a copper-brown colour
while those sheltered from the light were of a soft bronze-green

shade. It seemed to be the actiou of the light which gave them

their deep colour : we thought that he might know why, and that

anyhow it would interest him. He had appeared rather slack the

day before, and also that morning, saying that he began to feel old
and inactive ; but when we took some leaves up to his room he
at once became quite keen. He said that he did not know the
reason, but that he would try and find it out. Soon he came out

I ,;,      ^ OF THE

     VOFUNIVERSITY

48 LAST DAYS

on to the lawn, almost running in his eagerness to gather more
leaves ; and he tried experiments with them for several days, but

said that he had not been able to discover the cause. In 1872 he

had worked very hard at elm-leaf experiments.
     He talked much with us during the last few months of his

life. He told us that he had never had any experience of what is

called conversion. It seemed that he had grown up from child

hood with a steady desire to do what was right. He appeared to
have inherited his tender conscience and high principles, and to
have been carefully trained to subdue himself while still very
young, for the home-life was the reverse of pamperiug, and both
boys and girls grew up hardy in body and simple in their tastes.

      He took to his bed only a few days before his death, but
he had been failing noticeably for some months previously. He
was very patient and struggled on, giving his lectures and doing
his other work as long as he was able. He managed to be present
at the Annual Dinner of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
 held on that occasion in his own College, about a month before
 his death, although very ill at the time. He made an admirable
 speech, recalling with charming simplicity and courtesy his life
 long connection with the College, to the Mastership of which he
 had been called on the last day of his eighty-third year, and with
 the Society through which he had published so much of his

 scientific work.

       We thought that he had received some special illumination
 towards the close of his life; he spoke very little about dogma,
 but much of the nature and attributes of God, and of how men
 may attain to live a higher kind of life while they are still on
 earth. He thought less and less of the differences in religious

 Iopinion ; not that he ever minded such differences, for remember

 years before how it grieved him that Mr Huxley should be so
 misunderstood, as he regarded him with strong affection and
 admiration, considering him one of the truest people whom he
  had ever known.

       He quite realized his own condition and knew that he had not
  long to live ; but he evidently wished to live longer and do still
  more work, for he was very happy and energetic, and his faculties

  were quite unimpaired.
       Near the end he was conscious that his life was rapidly drawing

  to a close, but his mind remained clear; only during the last few

          FUNERAL SERVICE  49

hours he wandered slightly, and imagined that he was addressing
the undergraduates of liis College. "Speak," he said, "to the
young men," and then, "the way of purity, that is the only way."
But he awoke from the state of lethargy into which he had fallen,
and during the last half-hour of his life, and when he could no

longer speak, he smiled occasional assurance that all was well with

him. There was hardly any struggle at the last. It seemed that

he had walked with God, and that he was now gently taken away
from us.

     As he lay dead he looked as though he had seen peace, and

yet as if by taking rest in the deepest sleep he was only preparing

for some fresh activity. On the night of February the 4th his
body lay in the Chapel of Pembroke, where he had so often
worshipped ; and on the following morning, after a short service,
it was borne according, to ancient custom round the court of the

Chapel, and thence to the University Church.

      The University, which had honoured him while living, honoured

Ihim dead, and a great company was collected in the church to do

him reverence. But do not remember anything more, except
that some of those who most loved him and the members of his

College still continued with him and followed him, until after the

final prayers his body was laid beside that of his beloved wife, and

near two of his children in the Mill Road Cemetery.

      So sweetly disposed was he to all with whom he came in

contact, that people while they revered were scarcely ever afraid

of him, and on entering his society were at once without fear
of being misconstrued or misunderstood. He was very decided
in his opinions, and having so much business to transact, must

Ioften have clashed with the opinions of others ; yet believe that,

though anger might be felt towards him at the time, it may be
truly said that he made no lasting enemy. The words of Francis
Bacon seem to sum up his whole character, --" Certainly it is
Heaven on earth to have a man's mind move in Charity, rest
in Providence, and turn upon the Poles of Truth."

s. B. I.

EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES.

                             69, Albert Street, Regent's Park,

                             London, N.W.

                                                 Jan. 5/57.

I HAD my first lecture to-day. I got on satisfactorily to
Imyself and I hope interested the men.
                                        shall like my lectures
better now for I am coming to electricity which is a more inter

esting subject to lecture on than mechanics.

   IAt Jermyn St. got my quarter's salary and found a letter
from the Abbe Moigno. It was written to induce me to interest

myself in an improvement in printing from a photograph, due

Ito a M. Poitevin (if have read the name right). The Abbe

said that they were endeavouring to place me on the list of

candidates for the Corresponding Membership of the French

Academy at the coming election. He also called my attention

to a paper in Poggendorff by a M. Holtzmann, who had repeated
with some variation my experiments on the polarisation of dif

Ifracted light, but had arrived at an opposite conclusion as to
the direction of vibration.  went to the Athenaeum and looked
over Holtzmann's paper. I had not time to read it carefully
Ithrough as my lecture was coming on.   think I must repeat
IHoltzmann's experiments and my own, before can come to a

mature judgment on the matter.

    ...It looked funny to see mathematical formulae in a letter

from you. Don't be too ambitious for you will not understand

these things. They go much beyond Euclid and Algebra, which
will be quite enough for you in the way of pure mathematics ; but

you may be interested by chemistry and physics.

                                                                                       Jan. 10, 1857.

      My cold is gone, reduced to only the dregs of the dregs of

I Ia cold, an infinitesimal of the second order. After dinner to-day

   finished The Caxtons. Tell Mrs. Robinson that have come

Ito the end ; not that it was a task, for like it very well. I

suppose you would laugh at me, being in the habit of devouring

a novel at a sitting, or two sittings at the most. I take it more
Iby sips, the way a man takes wine. To-day had my men to an

               LECTURES AT THE SCHOOL OF MINES                    51

Iexamination. Alas ! fear they have not been taking in my

lectures. It is hard to teach mechanics to men who have had
no previous mathematical training. I am now in electricity;

a much more interesting subject to lecture on than mechanics.
   I doubt if I shall make any further remarks on Prof. Challis's
I Ipaper.
        think shall send my friend the Abbe Moigno a few

lines on M. Holtzmann's experiments to insert in Cosmos, a weekly
Iscientific newspaper which he edits.
                                           have got to test the

reflecting power of the speculum which Piazzi Smyth used on

Ithe Peak of Teneriffe, the reflecting power mean with regard
Ito the invisible rays. This hope shortly to do ; it won't take

long.

    I intended to teach you a little Euclid and Algebra just for

the sake of strengthening the mind, not for the sake of enabling
Iyou to follow my mathematics.
                                           am afraid Euclid and Algebra
Iwould not help you much towards understanding what write on
Ipure mathematics. But chiefly busy myself about physics, and

you will be able to understand something of that after you have

seen some experiments.

   I am afraid you have puzzled me with your chemistry. The

tarnish on the braceletI suppose, a very thin film of sulphuret
                        I iIs,

                                       it
of silver, and don't know what will take off that.        I  tried

my hand once on a half-crown belonging to my friend Power

of Pembroke. It looked a little suspicious to begin with, and after
trying various chemicals left looking much more so. It looked

about half-way between gold and silver, yet believe       if      was
                                           I                  it

perfectly good.

    ...I send you my smaller colour discs to name your father's by

   asked Maxwell to lend your father a copy of his paperI he had
one to spare. Please tell me one ajrived.
               I
                                           Jan. 12, 1857.
                                 if

                                 I
   ...I am still on electricity.           have far more and prettier

experiments to enliven my lectures by than had when was
                                           I
                                                         I

on mechanics.  gave No. 37 to-day and my course consists

of 48.

                                                Jan. 17/57.

   As no mails go out on Sunday you will not fear get this
        it

                                          I
                                                  II
for a day and a half after the 55-pager.   am afraid the latter,

though will probably be interesting to you (if may judge how

52 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

I felt about similar letters to me), may have given you some pain.

What gave me occasional pain, being no longer pent up, can now

give me no more, and I feel so happy now that there is nothing to

interfere with my love. The ghosts looked always wrong; but
now how silly and contemptible they appear as well !...

     The 55-pager explained to you my motives for the first time,

and it is better you should love me as what I am than as something

else. My letter this morning was for a letter something like

IHofmann's methylethylamylophenylammonium for a word: guess

you never got a 55-pager before.

                              Jan. 21/57.

...So then, my dearest Mary, though the ghosts were bad

enough they were not quite so black as you may perhaps have
I Iimagined. It grieves me to think that you should look forward
to but little love.  fancied  should love you as few wives
Icomparatively get loved, but of course cannot tell, for I cannot
look into other people's hearts. And as to coldness I cannot tell

Iyou more of my heart than know myself, and the heart is said to

be deceitful, but it appears to me to be thus. Do you remember

I Ihow told you broke my arm, and how the muscle between

the elbow and shoulder fell away when the arm was in the sling,

and how rapidly it came to again when the sling was laid aside
Iand the arm used ? Well, believe it is even so with my feelings
Iof affection.
                have been living so much alone "amidst thoughts

and making out things" that they are not so strong as those

of one living in the bosom of a family ; but they only want an

object on which to exercise themselves. And would it be no

satisfaction to you to think that you were under God the means of

supplying to my character one thing it wants much ? Already

I feel the difference. To me as well as to you it seems quite

natural that people living together, and both trying to do right,

though it may be with many faults, should love each other.

   I quite approve of your views, and perhaps they are the truer
Ion the whole, but think mine are admissible too. Why should

not love and duty go hand in hand to effect a sacrifice which

love alone might have been insufficient for? And may not

Ithe love in the end be quite as deep though helped over the
initial difficulty by duty ?  was capable of being moved,

mathematically as it were, by the belief that a particular course

            RELATIONS OF DOMESTIC CONFIDENCE                      53

was right; and I do believe that God put these views in my mind,

working by means of that which was in me to supply that which

was wanting.

   I...And now the last thing is this; that do verily hope and
Iexpect that shall be both happier and better for being married
Ito you. It seems to me that am all the happier from not having

made a calculation or estimation as it were of the balance of

happiness.
I cannot compare myself with another, but only with myself,
Iand it seems to me that
I Imore surely as it is than
                        both do and shall love you better and

                        could if had fallen in love with you in

the more ordinary way.

                                                  Jan. 24, 1857.

...True, nothing human can be perfect; but any incipient

I Iannoyance is prevented by confession from interfering with love.

     To reassure you after the great pain fear have caused

Iyou, will tell you one thing which will show how I regarded you
about two and a half years ago and regard you still. I have
I Inever told it to you yet. When the clouds seemed to clear off
in that wonderful way, and  saw how  was on the point of

sinking into an old bachelor (I mean no disrespect to the genus)
and felt how much better married life, if carried out as I looked

Iforward to, would be, felt that perhaps my marriage with you

would be even the turning-point of my salvation.
I shall feel anxious to hear that you are again well and happy,
Ibut must have patience.
   IAnd now my dearest Mary  hope that henceforth you will

be no more afraid of me, but will believe me to be, ever your

affectionate, George.

                                                                                Jan. 27, 1857.

   INow that feel that there is nothing to keep me from opening

my heart to you any time in case of any trouble, and find that you

Iare thank God happy again, it seems as if have got social even

in my lonely lodging, and can join your social party at Armagh
and form one of the family.

     You are quite right in saying that it is well not to go brooding
over one's own thoughts and feelings ; and in a family that is easy,
but you don't know what it is to live utterly alone.

54 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

                                           Jan. 29, 1857.

...Trials of some kind or other are almost sure to come,

and death we know must come at last; but even death itself

is only an incident in the bright course if we live as God grant

we may. But how many a bright prospect is marred by human
fault, from the loss of Paradise downwards. We must bear and

forbear, love, comfort, and forgive, until by God's mercy we reach,

Ias trust we may, that City, into which must enter nothing that

defileth, where there shall be no more death, neither sorrow

nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former

things are passed away; where, while faith shall have no more

exercise, and human knowledge shall have vanished away, love

shall abide for ever.

...Last night was a R. S. night.                         Jan. 30, 1857.

                                        I had a paper to read out

Ion the minute anatomy of the earth-worm and another on a
kindred subject.       told General Sabine that in reading such
Ipapers felt as if I were a pair of bellows to be blown for the
I Ibenefit of the Society.
                       felt was a sort of reading machine,

the papers were so completely out of my line. Some curious

and rather metaphysical discussion arose on one of the papers.

What do you think of the doctrine that the queen bee and all the

bees of the hive are but one individual ?

                                                                  Jan. 31, 1857. 4 p.m.

   II have just finished my Smith's Prize paper, the MS. mean,

and am going to post it to Cambridge to be printed. I have
not been out yet to-day, as I wanted to finish it. This paper
I find comes in rather awkwardly. It is a paper for the highest

ICambridge men, which have to set to when my thoughts are

running in quite a different channel, physical experiments for

my lectures at Jermyn St. and so forth. At this time of year

at least, Cambridge mathematical books are beginning to look

strange to me.

   I am going to Cambridge on Monday evening, coming back on

Wednesday night, going back to Cambridge on Friday morning,

coming back to London on Monday morning.                 must

   I Ihave only three more lectures at Jermyn St. which
Igive, but shall give some extra ones.

        PROSPECT OF ENDOWMENT OF PROFESSORSHIP                      55

             Pkmbroke College, Cambridge,

                                             Feb. 3, 1857.

There are nine men now in my room writing away at my

Smith's Prize paper, so having nothing particular to do just
Iat present
             take up my pen to write you some news, etc., but

my fingers are rather numb with cold and not in first-rate writing

order.
IOn Sunday after Church
                                     walked to the Parks, at least

IHyde Park, Kensington Gardens, and Regent's Park. There were
Ihundreds,   suppose thousands, on the ice.  did not see any
accidents, but I saw by the papers that numbers got in, but no

one was drowned.

   IOn Monday (yesterday) after my lecture called at the R. S.

about a paper, and then came here by the 5 p.m. express which
arrived at 7. It seemed very cosy getting back to my rooms again
Iand having friends about me.
                                    spent most of the evening in the

rooms of different Fellows talking.
I IAnd now must tell you one thing which may be, but don't
Ifthink is likely to be, of importance to us, at least at present.
                                                                    it

comes to anything it may make me wish to put off my marriage,

I Ias mentioned to you a day or two after we were engaged.

should not like what I am going to tell you to go beyond you and

your father and Mrs R. at present.
I IEven before went to the Observatory last August, thought
that as to the time of our marriage I ought not to put it off
Imerely for the sake of saving more money, when
                                                 had what

prudent and experienced people considered enough (I thought                 \

it might be deemed necessary or rather advisable to save money          r:
for two or three years in case it should turn out that you had not
any, but it was not so deemed either by your friends or mine, but

the contrary), but that I ought to put it off a little if my marriage

would throw difficulties in the way of University reform so far as

relates to the endowment of my own Professorship. Everybody

allows that in the abstract the Professorships ought to be endowed,

but where is the money to come from ? There seems no source

but the appropriation of Fellowships to the endowment of Pro

fessorships. This would be a very strong measure, like the

alienation of private property ; for Fellowships are not endowed

by the nation, but given by private individuals who founded them.

56 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

Parliament might force such a measure on the University, but

there would be strong opposition.

     But there is another much milder method which could be put

into practice in the case of those who are already Fellows, and

could even be extended to those who are not, by the election

of them into Fellowships if the Fellows of a College were willing
to elect them. It is to dispense with the restriction of celibacy

and the possible necessity of taking Holy Orders or else resigning,

in the case of Professors who are also Fellows. Thus the Fellow

ship would in effect become part of the endowment of a Professor

Iship, and yet the intention of the founders is but little interfered
with.  believe Heads of Houses had originally no more power of

marrying than ordinary Fellows, but they were permitted by a
letter of Elizabeth. And if Heads by a letter of Elizabeth, why
not Professors by a letter of Victoria, or if our now more limited

monarchical authority requires   if        by an Act of ParliamentI?

   Now believe that the Fellows of my College would be willingit,
a
and glad to endow my Professorship in that way, but don't
   II I I
know what the Master thinks of it. The subject of the endowment

of Professorships  I is        now being discussed by the Council of the
                          is is
University appointed by the recent Act of Parliament. At present

so far as know all vague talk, but a very few weeks may make

difference.

   Now, my notion this. Talk may go on for years and come

to nothing, and don't know whether ought to put off myI
marriage for mere talk. But any scheme were definitely proposed,

then think the case would be altered, and in that case should
                                                         it
be for waiting till was legalized, provided that were likely to be
                   it                                      iIf I I
                                                                    it
done before long.                                                  I if is

   If were called into residence and my Fellowship were added

to the Professorship, my income would be just about whatI
independently of my Fellowship which should have to give up
married at Easter, but our position would be far, far pleasanter.

should be in a fixed and highly respectable position instead of
being like a " bookseller's hack " as Airy expressed     to me, " a
scientific hack " as one of my intimate friends said to me was,

   should do one thing well (at least hope so) instead of having
I                                I
                                           I

                                                      I
so many dissimilar things to attend to that feel as                   were

doing them all badly.            should have (probably) much more

leisure for researches, which would then become part of my

PROSPECTS OF SETTLING DOWN AT CAMBRIDGE                    57

Ibusiness, to keep up the reputation of the Chair.  should have

pleasant intellectual society. And you, instead of being a nobody

buried in big smoky noisy London, would become all at once a

full-blown Frau Professorin, with extremely pleasant society at

the distance of a short walk from you, living in what I almost

consider the country, able to drop in to those lady friends with

whom you might become intimate instead of having to take a cab

for two or three miles to call on a friend.

   I wish you would speak seriously to your father about this :
I should like to know what he thinks. At the same time though
I Ihave written all this as to what may be, don't think it is at all

likely to be, i.e., that it is at all likely that there will be anything

more than vague talk before Easter.                        have

   I Icannot tell you what a comfort it is to me now that
at last done what I so often longed to be permitted to do, and
opened my heart to you. It makes me feel that, whether we are

married at Easter or wait two or three years, we shall be sure of

each other all the same.

    There are nine men in for the Smith's Prize this time. I hope
Ito have their papers looked over before return to London to

morrow night.
IBy the bye, intended several times to remind you of the
Icolour discs, but forgot.
                            should like to have them in case any

friend should drop in and like to see the colour top. Never mind

if you have left Armagh before this reaches you. Friends' visits

at Albert St. are few and far between. Indeed, except Henry and

Mary who were staying with me, Hudleston and his brother

Henry once, Whitley once to dine with Henry, and Dr Sharkey
Ionce on business, don't recollect a single friend's visit at Albert St.
I Isince October when I got there. Yes, believe
                                                    had Fischer

once on his way to Scotland.
I have run on and written a pretty good letter after all, and
I will now bid you good-bye.
   IP.S. must explain that my " castles " meant merely bright
Ianticipations of steady mutual affection.
                                            did not by using that
Iword imply that looked on them as fancies not to be realized.

Your character has been uninterruptedly sunshiny in my eyes.

Pembroke did brilliantly this examination. We had three men

who went in for mathematical honours and they came out 2nd,

4th and 10th wranglers.

58 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

                             Pembroke College, Cambridge,

                                                                                  Feb. 7, 1857.

   IOn Wednesday night went again to Town by the 7.10 p.m.

train for R.S. work next day. It was a Council day, so we

breakfasted with Lord Wrottesley* and discussed business of the
IR.S. till about one ; then
                             called at Jermyn Street, to speak

to Sir R. Murchison, went on to the R.S., arranged my papers,

and had just a few minutes to write to William before the

Council met. We had done earlier than usual, about 20 minutes

before 5. Then dinner of the Philosophical Club at 5.30 ; then
Ievening meeting of the R.S. at 8.30.
                                       had little to do at

this but to listen, as it was the Bakerian Lecture, delivered by

IFaraday viva voce or should rather say in person ; for on other

occasions the papers are read by the Secretary. Next morning

I got up at 6 h. 20 m., walked to the station 3 or 4 miles, got

a cup of tea and morsel of bread and butter, and got off to

Cambridge by the 8 a.m. train, got here (i.e. to the station) at 10
and breakfasted in my own rooms. That day (yesterday) was

spent in looking over, i.e. completing the looking over of, the

Smith's Prize Papers. William came about 1 p.m. for the meeting

of the "Family" Club, so he slept here last night, but he break
fasted with his friends Dr and Mrs Paget, who have recently lost

their second (by age) child, having now out of three only the

eldest left. We met yesterday at 5.30 p.m. to decide the prizes,
at the Vice-Chancellor's, Dr Philpott, Master of St Catharine's

Hall. The Master of Trinity (Dr Whewell), Prof. Challis, and
myself, examined this time. We gave the two prizes to the first

two wranglers, but reversed the order, making Savage, the second

wrangler, a Pembroke man, first Smith's Prizeman. The decision

over, we dined with the Vice-Chancellor ; Professor, Mrs and Miss

Willis were of the party. When Professor Willis first shook hands
Iwith me before dinner he asked me where Mrs Stokes was.
                                                           told
Ihim there was no Mrs Stokes yet. At dinner happened to sit

on the Vice-Chancellor's left and Mrs Miller on his right. The

subject of houses happened to be mentioned, when Mrs Miller said

Ito the Vice-Chancellor that should be wanting one shortly. It

was the first the Vice-Chancellor had heard of so he congratulatedit,
me, and Mrs Miller was pleased with having had such a piece of

* President of the Royal Society, 1854-8.

           MODE OF LIFE AND OCCUPATION  59

news to tell. Here comes the porter for the letters, so I must

Iconclude, but indeed have told you most of the news. William

went off at 10 a.m. to London. He means to return to Denver on
IMonday.
           am going to return to London on Monday morning.
ITo-day I tried my Ruhmkorff 's coil for the first time. got sparks

04 inch long with a Callan's battery of 8 cells in indifferent action.
I showed it to several of the Fellows as well as to my old bedmaker.
She remarked, " You will have a great many things, sir, to amuse
Ia lady."
           suppose she meant you, but nothing had occurred
Ito remind her of you.
                        could not help thinking to-day how

very funny it would be, your overhauling such an old bachelor
Iphilosopher's den as my rooms are.
                                     had William last night
Iin my bed in my bedroom, so slept myself on a stretcher with

my head right under a lot of chemicals, my feet nearly opposite

a shelf of chemicals or rather set of shelves, and the table of the

room so blocked up by bottles, funnels, test-tubes, etc. that there

Iwas room for nothing and put my basin, etc. on a plank lying

on two chairs.

   IAs to the time of our marriage, shall proceed on the

supposition that it is to be Easter Tuesday unless something
Ioccurs to prevent it.
                        don't think this at all likely as far as

changes are concerned.

                                                     Ash Wednesday, Feb. 13th, 1857.

IIt is high time that I should write you a longer letter than

have done for the last two or three days. One thing which pre

I Ivented me was not knowing where to address. However think
Iwill post this to-night, addressing to Armagh, unless get a letter

from you by this afternoon's post leading me to address elsewhere.

   I IIf were to marry now should not think of taking a house

in London; for the subject of Professorships is fairly before the

ICouncil. From all have heard that has dropped out about their
Ideliberations, think it probable that they will make recom

mendations as to endowment and probably even as to the founda

tion of new Professorships ; but whether the Senate will sanction

their recommendations remains to be seen. Anyhow I expect

that a bold effort will be made towards endowment, whatever may

Ibecome of it. No talk has been made, so far as have heard,
Iin the Council about endowing them in the way mentioned;

probably it will be proposed to tax the Colleges for the benefit of
the whole University. As far as we can guess what is probable,
it seems likely enough that the Professorships will be endowed,

GO EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

Ifbut it will probably take a few years to effectuate the changes.
that be so I think my plan would be to take a house in Cambridge
and take lodgings in London for the winter; to live in fact as I

live at present, only substituting a house for a College room, with

just one great difference, namely having you with me.

There is no harm speculating on the future, so long as we do

not so fix our imaginations upon it as to be disappointed should
things turn out otherwise. Our present course is to wait till

things develop themselves. At present one can only conjecture;
by June it seems probable, if it pleases God to prolong our lives

to that, that we shall know pretty well how things are likely

I Ito go.                                         wanted to ask
        called on the Millers on Monday morning.

Prof. Miller whether anything had been written about the colours

of the precious opal, as the Master of Trinity had asked me a
Iquestion on the subject.
                           found from him that nothing had

been written ; it was only conjectured that the colours were due

to microscopic crystals of quartz.

   IMrs Miller said she had not expected to see me again till

came married. She seemed to have set her heart on being the

Ifirst to ask you to dinner in Cambridge. told her of the put off.

She spoke of the discussions going on in the Council. Her

husband you know is one of those interested in the result, and so
you may naturally suppose it is an interesting subject to her as it

Iis to you.     dined with my friend Dr Paget, who as President
     Yesterday

of the Cambridge Philosophical Society invited the members of

the Council. We had a very pleasant party of 15, including
Mr Hopkins, Professor Miller, Prof. Challis, and others whom you

do not know. To-morrow I am going to dine with Mr Vignoles

at Westminster (there is the meeting of the R.S. in the evening)
to meet Dr Plarr of Strasburg, who has been writing on the
figure of the Earth and was very anxious to see me as I had
Iwritten on the same subject.
Ipapers.                         have sent him copies of my

          mean to return to Cambridge on Friday morning.
I have to examine for the Bell Scholarship next Tuesday in

Cambridge, and to give my final examination at Jermyn St. on

the following Saturday. So from Thursday afternoon, March 5,

till Saturday morning, March 7, inclusive, I expect to be in

London, and a letter to reach London then may be addressed

Athenaeum Club, Pall Mall, S.W.

                       VARIOUS ACTIVITIES                               61

   IIt is just 12 and am going to sit for my photograph* to
IPower, one of the Fellows who has taken up photography. shall
Ibeg one for you, but I must keep it till go to Armagh as they
are collodion positives on glass. I expect to arrive at Armagh the

Saturday before Passion Week.

    It is now after dinner. Power took altogether 5 photographs
Iof me. Two of them think are very good. The afternoon's post

brought me your letter of Monday. You don't say how long

you are going to stay in Dublin, so I shall send this to Armagh.

I return you Mrs Napier's letter as you may like to keep it.
   I am putting in a notice of M. Holtzmann's experiments in

the next No. of the Phil. Mag. Perhaps 3'ou will read
                                             a                     but

don't think you will understand much of it.          I
                                                        I

                                                                   it,

                                                               I
have been very remiss in question-answering. You have
is
asked me marvellous searching questions, which proceed to
  1. I
           it I 9answer some of.

The virtue you think most of. By think most of presume

meant think most highly of, rather than reflect oftenest upon.
Answer,: -- think one
                             more struck with strong exhibition of
                       is

                              it
virtue, be of what kind           may, under trying circumstances,

than with virtue on account of its being of a particular kind.
And with reason for such proof indicates the possession of a
                   ;         a

character which would show itself in other directions occasion
                                             is
led. Yet comparing virtues in the abstract,
                                                I

                                                            if

                                                                                                 ,
                                                               am inclined to

think that charity or love (for  I it     the same word) must rank the
                                      is
highest, for in a manner includes all others.
2.

           it
Favourite hero. Hero suppose                   meant in the usual

sense of the word, and should say in this sense the Duke of
                       is I
Wellington.
              Prose writer and poet. No decided opinion.
5. 3.
    4.Antipathy. Vide what was said under virtue. Presum

ing that you don't mean to go to the assizes but speak of what

one meets with in ordinary society, should be inclined to say a
                                          I

sort of cringing, sneaking, fickle, frivolous, fawning character.

      Flower. Perhaps a clove-pink.
7. 6.

           I
      Food. Variety charming; one would get tired of any

thing. Though come from the Emerald Isle must say the
                                               is

                                                 I
roast beef and plum-pudding of Old England very good.

                   * Perhaps the frontispiece to this volume.

62 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

     8. Occupation. Scientific investigations, especially when they

lead to discoveries.

            Colour. should say a red-purple.
        must now conclude for want to write to Mr Vignoles, and
then am going to Dr Clark's to tea.
I I f).
             I

                           I

                                                  London, March 19/57.

When the cat's away the mice may play. You are the cat

and am the poor little mouse.               have been doing what guess
3,                                          III I                    a 3I
you won't let me do when we are married, sitting up till o'clock
 1I I                                                   it

                                                            I
in the morning fighting hard against a mathematical difficulty.

Some years ago attacked an integral of Airy's, and after severe
                          it it I
trial reduced                    to a readily calculable form. But there was one

difficulty about which, though tried till almost made myself

ill, could not get over, and at last had to give up and profess
                                                               it
myself unable to master it*.                took
                                                                  I
                                                  up again a few days ago,

and after a two or three days' fight, the last of which sat up till

           at last mastered it.      I  don't say you won't let me work at such

things, but you will keep me to more regular hours. A little out

of the way now and then does not signify, but there should not be

too much of it. It not the mere sitting up but the hard thinking
                          it
combined with
                                 is

                                            Pembroke College, Cambridge,

                                                         March 28, 1857.

             To-day have been examining some alkaloids sent me byII
Dr Herapath of Bristol, and trying some other chemico- optical

experiments.                       find in horse-chestnut bark a crystallizable

substance distinct from resculine, the solution of which highly
                                            a
                                                              a

                                                                           a
                                                                               is
fluorescent. The afternoon post brought me letter from the

Prince of Salm-Horstmar enclosing                 specimen of fluorescent

substance he had obtained from the bark of the ash. He sent also

cheque for some money for Darkerf.
a
       [*  Math, and Phys. Paper», Vol. iv. p. 77 (May, 1857). In modern language

this memoir relates to the domains of asymptotic solutions of linear differential

equations, and their relations to each other and to the regular solutions. Urged

on by the then unaccountable discontinuity above referred to, he succeeded unaided

in probing the whole matter to the bottom. Eleven years afterwards H. Hankel

(Math. Ann.               arrived at the same results more systematically, by building on
t
                     i.)
Rieruann's work.]

           Philosophical instrument maker.

              ENGROSSING SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHES                     63

                                                                                March 31, 1857.

         I Ifeel sure that you will love me more than deserve;

and supposing even that in consequence of the letter you love me

Ia bit less, set it down as an axiom that it must be that I don't

deserve  it,  and don't blame you a bit, but hope to deserve
              II                     by
better in future.
                                        I

                                                                       it
I      too feel that have been thinking too much of late, but
   aI              it I
in different way, my head running on divergent series, the disI

continuity of arbitrary constants, etc., etc.* was thinking to-day

that perhaps would get you at Armagh to bind up the MS. of

the paper am writing for the Cambridge Philosophical Society.
        is
often thought you would do me good                 keeping me from 'being
          I
too engrossed by those things. My only chance of finishing the

paper    to work at        in the vacation, for my lectures come on

immediately after. Yet was half inclined to lay all these things

aside for the vacation.

        I  repay you in kind in one respect; but my violets were

gathered from the garden where Ridley used to walk up and down

learning the Epistles by heart, as he says in his farewell         But
                                                          1,
must stop. The porter has long since been for the letters,
I                                                            f.

     I                                                                   a
but will take this to the Post-Office myself in hopes, perhaps,
of doing something to ease your little troubles. Only just time.

                                                   April    1857.

             Secondly, remember you should make allowance for
situation in which you were never placed, that of having a tiny
trouble which you were not allowed to mention to any human
being, although was not thing concerning yourself alone, and
being alone, breakfasting alone, dining alone, taking tea alone,
week after week, so as to be deprived of the healthy invigorating

effects of social intercourse and the mutual interchange of ideas.
              it

                                  a

                                                   April  1857.
        I

                              t

                          I

                                                                              it 2,

                                                                                                     a

                                                                                        it
                                                                                                     is
           dare say my letters latterly were somewhat cold;

likely enough, my head got running so on mathematics of most

transcendental character.  felt at the time how good would be

for me to be prevented from having my mind so engrossed. Yet

                         * See previous footnote,
                            Bp Ridley the martyr.

04 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

Irecollect your " manly " (as calledit          which you thought dubious
                                        (I it,
praise) sentiment about my researches. Again goodbye and God

bless you.

                                              38, Dawson Street, Dublin,

                                                April 1857.
                                                I
                                                              6,
will take things chronologically, that may not leave out
a
                           went with Lizzie to Dr Stokes's* on
  I
    I
what wanted to say.  I

Saturday night. My sleepiness had gone off                        believe took
                                                :                  I

                                                 I

little nap after dinner. Dr Stokes had a small party, not indeed

small in all, but about half of was made up of his own large

family. There were there Madame Morosini, an Italian, who sings

and plays beautifully, and Mlle C. forget the name). Madame

Morosini played, but did not sing as she had a cold. Mlle C,

who does not speak English, sings most beautifully. Dr Stokes

was in great spirits, and once when Mlle C. was singing some

Neapolitan ballads, accompanying herself on the piano, he got so

charmed that, beginning with moving his hands in time he ended

by taking hold of Mr Otway, a barrister, no chicken in years, and

skipping about the room, much to Mlle C.'s amusement

John, though pretty well recovered, did not venture out

yesterday. My mother, Lizzie, and               went to Church together
                                              I,

                                                                 I
yesterday morning to St Anne's, nearly opposite. It was, believe,

while he was curate of St Anne's that my father fell in love with

and married my mother, then very young. It was sacrament

Sunday there as with you.

                                                April 22, 1857.

            The change before you -- doubly painful to one so loving
and beloved as you -- the parting from your friends. But that
                     it

                         I

                                                        it

                                                                     is
                                                                                a

                                                                                         is
a necessity; and though cannot be but that your father and

Mrs R. will feel the loss, still do believe that                    comfort

to them that you are to be, we all hope happily, married

         must soon make up my mind whether to go or not to go to
Dr Gladstone's party. To-morrow will be a thorough R.S. day.
I
                                    Pembroke College, Cambridge,
        is
               a                                April 24, 1857.
It really the 25th, as                now 12.45 at night, but             will
                           I it
                                 is

                                        I
                                                         aI
write you line or two before go to bed.         felt lonely in London

on Wednesday evening after the brightness of Armagh, and trifle

            * Dr W. Stokes, F.R.S., the eminent Dublin physician.

                  SCIENTIFIC PURSUITS                        65

Isleepy into the bargain, and not much disposed to work ; so went

to Dr Gladstone's soire'e. Crowded rooms as usual; there were
Iseveral there whom
                                knew. Yesterday was a complete R.S.
Iday. At breakfast at Lord Wrottesley's heard some particulars
Iabout Sir David Brewster's attachment and marriage.
                                                      won't

tell you all at present, it is so late. The lady it seems is about
50 years younger than he. Half a century ! What a difference !...

They appear to have become bond fide attached to each other,
and that pretty quickly. May it be lasting.

       Adams tells me they are still on the Regius Professorships
Iin the Council.
                  expect they won't come to the Mathematical

Professorships for some time. Adams got to-day a letter announcing

his election as a Corresponding Member of the French Institute.

ITell your father that; it will please him. have managed somehow
or other to get a bit of a cold. I hope my voice will be in trim
Ifor Monday's lecture. High time to go to bed. I have done a bit

more to my paper. Past one now, good night, hope you are

sound asleep.

                                     Athenaeum, London,

                                       May 6, 1857.

       I IfIndeed feel that you may help me a great deal.

your thoughts wander, where are mine ? Indeed they range at
I Ilarge a deal too much.
                                feel that am too much engrossed too

with my scientific pursuits. They are all very well in their way,

Inay even look on them as forming a part of the proper work

of my profession ; but they occupy too large a share of my mind,
Iand am often tempted to neglect the work immediately before
Ime in following out something new.
                                     believe that you will be of

the greatest use to me, in this respect among others, in keeping

me from being so engrossed. But we must take care not to lean

too much on each other. It seems to me as believing that my
                                     I
                                          if,
marriage to you would be for my great good, have grown careless,

as that was to do everything for me. We may indeed help each
if

                        is

                            it
other, but we must not expect too much from that. Nothing can

replace individual carefulness, and we must each look for strength

where strength to be found, that we may be able to help each

other. Without that may be but the blind leading the blind.

s. b.  I.                                             5

66 EARLV LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

                                     Pembroke College,
                                       May lltk, 1857.

         If we are married at the time we are at present thinking

I Iof, and go to Switzerland as we talked of, think will bring a

couple of quartz prisms, a quartz lens, and a piece of uranium
glass with me, to observe the spectrum on top of the Rigi or

Faulhorn.

   I read my paper to-night, so don't suppose that you have put

me off finishing it. There were no remarks made on it ; it was of
too transcendental a nature to permit of remarks being made on

the spur of the moment.
As I walked out yesterday the nightingales were singing
Isweetly.
           was thinking that would be something new for you.

IBut perhaps you may have heard them already. Probably not,

for you have not been much in England, and don't think they

flourish in the Emerald Isle.

The afternoon's post brought me your short note (the morning

post brought the letter) announcing that Mrs R. continued im

proving, and containing its green enclosure. It needed not that

Inow to assure me that you are no longer afraid of me, though it
had a symbolical scent.        hope you won't be knocked up by
Iyour nursing.
                shall be quite content with such short notes

while you have so much to fatigue you. But you must not be too

fierce about nursing, or instead of being able to nurse others, you

will have to get them to nurse you.

                                     May 16, 1857.

            Regius Professorships to Trinity College. They had pro

posed a plan which Trinity College did not accept, and so they
had to go back to old matters. But Adams says he does not
think they will get back to the Lucasian Professorship for a good
while, as they will probably first discuss the question of trying to

get money for the Professorships generally.

    IOn Tuesday dined at the Frosts ; on Wednesday with the

Master of Caius; on Thursday at the Philosophical Club in

ILondon. Next Tuesday am engaged to dinner at the Master
Iof Christ's and on Wednesday to the Hopkins's. So you see am
Irather gay in that way at present. To-day declined an invi

tation to dinner from the Master and Fellows of St Catharine's

IHall for the 28th, as am to be in London on that day

             OCCUPATION WITH FLUORESCENCE                                                     67

   I have not forgotten little Jack Horner who sat in a corner, so

1 comprehend the plum, though nowadays the name Horner is
rather associated in my mind with Horner's method of solving
numerical equations.

   I Iam afraid cannot help you a bit in the matter of the

governess. You must want a regular blue-stocking, to teach
Latin and Greek. Of course Euclid and Algebra must be con
sidered a sort of dust on the balance, a trifle not worth

mentioning.

                                                                      June 3rd, 1857.

I have got very interested, too interested, in my horse-

chestnut bark experiments. One's thoughts run so in one channel,

when one is all alone and gets interested in anything particularly.

Adams told me to-day they had a meeting of the Council, but

Iwere occupied in considering the communication from the Com
missioners.  suppose the Council will shortly wind up their

deliberations till October; so we must be content to remain un
Icertain as to our future abode.
                                     have great hopes it may be

Cambridge ; but there is nothing fresh about that, nor has been

this good while. Tell your father that Adams has finished his

investigation of the Secular Acceleration of the Moon's Mean

Motion, and finds it only half what Laplace made
a                                                                                       so that old

                                                                                :

                                   I
                                                  I

                                                                                   it,
eclipses are thrown out considerably

    [In reply, June 5th, 1857 --" am delighted that you have

little time for the Horse Chestnut bark, and don't see how

you can be too much interested."]    London, June 12, 1857.

To-day has been rather a busy day with me, seeing people on

scientific matters, correcting press and so forth.                                      felt rather
                                     a

                                              a it iIf
                                                     I
             wanted relaxation, and thought             could only get
fagged, as   iIf
                            I
some talk with you and hear some of your music would freshen

me again and set me up.           ordered suit for wedding, as well

as 400 cards and envelopes                                must tell you
                                                        Horse Chestnut
             But that you may not rush to extremes      as there was

that felt all along that the investigation [about        might perhaps
bark] in itself was praiseworthy, and seemed
even in some sense motive of charity in for
I                                    it
                                          it,
                               a
                                              it I

                                                      if

save chemists who were working at the subject from spending
much labour in vain. But on the other hand had work to do
                                     I
                                           I
which this was driving into corner; and had papers referred to
                                  a

                                                                                        5--2

68 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

I Ime to look over, and if had a paper of mine under reference

would like it to be done soon. It did not seem wrong to go on from

one experiment to another when perhaps important information

Imight come out. Whatever might do by daylight, however, by
I I Iwhich alone could work, felt as if ought to be working at

my papers, etc., in the evening. But when evening came my
I Ibrain had been well worked and wanted relaxation, and yet
Ifelt I ought to work but had no mind for
                                  I           could not well
                                         I it,
    it,

         I
settle down to perhaps had not, without relaxation, force enough

for it. And so when felt ought to be working kept dipping
                       I

into chemical books a propos to my investigation, and so the

thing swallowed up my thoughts. Now by no means want to

pretend that was not wrong, but only to let you understand

better what the nature of the thing was. It began by my softness
    II

            it
in thinking would indulge myself in a few experiments on the

Monday after my lectures were over, saying to myself might
                                                I
                                                  I
                                                      I
treat myself to in consideration of my lectures, though felt

that that was self-indulgence for had work to do. And what
                               I

ought to have done was perhaps not to refuse to work at all at the

experiments, but to break them off with a high hand and stop
short in the middle of interesting and perhaps somewhat import

ant investigations, when found they were interfering with my
                       I

proper work and swallowing up my thoughts.

     And now, my own dear Mary, having told you my weakness
in my former letter, and having now explained a little more about

it  for fear you should be too much troubled, let me tell you this,

that the happiness  I  look forward to in your society was con

ditional on deep mutual love, and on our striving together to live

as we ought to live. That was in my mind the one thing needful.
Without that, music or accomplishments, or all you could do in

that way to make me happy would be but an empty blank.
They are all very well in their way but they only come in the

second place. When was engaged in those experiments felt
    it

                    aI
                                      I

                                                               it

                                                  I
                                                             I
that would be very pleasant to have you to take an interest

in them and to take down notes for me, but did not produce

the same tender kind of love as when opened my heart to you

with its weaknesses, feeling deepened still when found how

my faults pained and alarmed you. It seems to me that truth

and love must go together. This calls to my mind the passage

"speaking the truth in love."

                 PRESSURE OF SCIENTIFIC WORK          69

I suppose your father arrived to-night, I must go and see him

to-morrow.

And now, my dear Mary, may God bless you and bear you up

under the painful and anxious thoughts attendant upon your

great change, and the quitting of the home of your childhood and
your dear relations. That it is right I for my part, and looking
Ifrom my side, feel no doubt, although cannot wonder that my
faults should throw doubts on your mind. I should greatly like
I Ito get over to Armagh, but I have full as much to do here as will
occupy my time.     am not quite certain whether shall be able

to return to Armagh with your father.

   IAnd now somehow or other feel refreshed in my mind.
II felt much during the day as if had overworked myself and

wanted relaxation.

                              London, June 13, 1857.

I half expected a letter by the morning's post but none came
I Ifrom you. Perhaps you wrote to Cambridge, if so the letter will
be forwarded. Though wrote last night  write again this
morning, fearing that you may be troubled, and hoping I may be
Iable to say something to make you happier. In the first place
Imay say that had a good sleep, and felt fresh again and unfagged

this morning. You seem to be distressed because you do not feel

your heart more full and satisfied and want to know the reason.

I can suggest two, first my faults, secondly my absence. You

Itook me for an angel and were disappointed when you found was
Inot. But even in this may perhaps give you some comfort. Had

I Ikept my faults more to myself as many men take it would,

remaining more in a state of proud isolation, you might perhaps

have gone on thinking me an angel and having large expectations

of happiness and even been overflowing in love to me, and yet I

should have felt comparatively coldly towards you. But such a

state of proud isolation is utterly subversive of my notions of the

Ideep mutual confidence and love of married life. And find by

experience that opening my heart to you with its weakness makes

Ime love you as never otherwise should have done.

My absence is another obvious cause. The fact is you have

seen but little of me personally, and when people are together

there are a thousand little things which tend to produce affection

which cannot travel by post.

But for my part the belief has never deserted me that God

70 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

Himself guided me in the matter, and if you can feel the same

then trust quietly in Him. Perhaps these very troubles were
                                         I do not share your
given you to put this trust in exercise

troubles, for the prospect before me seems brighter and happier

than ever since the time when I first seemed to receive the direc

tion as it were fresh from heaven.

to you.                                                          London, June 18, 1857.

           I have just done dinner and will write a few lines

         I got two letters from you to-day. I wanted to post

a letter on scientific business at Charing Cross in time for the
Ievening mails, but passed by my lodging and called in, hoping
I Ito find a letter from you.
                           found one but did not read it.
I felt so perfectly at rest that being afraid of being late for the
Ipost, put it in my pocket and went to Charing Cross to post the

letter. As it would not be quite decent to read the letter in the

street I came here, and read it here. How happy everything now

seems. How thankful we should be that these troubles were sent.

It is commonly said that when people are engaged they may as

well marry at once, for they will never know each other any better

Itill they are married. It has been very different take it with

us. Why ? Because we have not shunned to speak or write the

plain truth to each other ; caring rather to have a clear conscience

than fearing the effect which disclosures might produce. It is

put down in the Vicar of Wakefield (have you ever read it 1) that
the vicar put off his daughter's marriage, thinking the interval

between engagement and marriage the happiest in one's life, and

wishing to prolong his daughter's happiness. And so perhaps it

                                        it,

                                               ;

                                                     it
often is ; people put the best face on   and then there are bright

expectations, and then disappointment. But with us the interval

has oftentimes been a period of trouble yet seems to me as

if  these troubles had all now blossomed and put forth their sweet

ness     Our troubles have sprung from our faults, yet mostly,

almost entirely mine.by   feel that, and yet they seem to have been

                       I
the very way to cure our faults          away from       it  [intellectual

worry] altogether       music and so forth, refreshing my mind, --

keeping my investigations from swallowing up my mind, keeping

me awake, impairing my health, and worse still shutting out the

view of the things which belong unto our peace. And felt too
                                                             I

that the presence of one honoured as well as loved would forbid
                        I

me to indulge in those investigations to the undue postponement of

                                   ANTICIPATIONS                                                                                      71

Imy appointed work... But I do indeed hope and trust that I shall

(nay, must not say shall, but should if you permitted it) have

that higher love which would sweeten uninteresting work by the
thought that it is for you....

   I...I know or fear that am, or perhaps may almost say used

to be, cold. With me, in my life of isolation and abstraction,

Iaffection has been in the condition of a virtue requiring cultiva

tion, and of which the culture fear was much neglected, rather

Ithan a feeling springing of itself in the daily interchange of

domestic kindnesses. Accordingly have been in the habit of

it
          it,

                          a (I
regarding       as you said of religious feelings, thing to be felt
                                                                                                                    is is a
rather than expressed.                feel fearful of expressing too much,
lest should be in fact
                                   lie.) It a struggle with both of us
                                        : is
between affection on the one side and the things given up on

the other. In order that affection may be victorious                                                                                  must
                                                                                                                             it,
be thorough        whole love or none. The preparations for our                                                                   it
              ;

                  a

                                ;
marriage are made the day named but even now refuse meis

you wish it.
if
     verily believe that, setting aside what positively wrong
  I

or selfish, there  is  nothing so fatal to fulness of love as reserve.

It damps the affection of the one who maintains                                                                                  and that

reacts upon the other.

     have work to do, but writing to you must take precedence
I
               if it

                 if is

                                it
of it. That most important day of our lives now near at hand,

unless you say         not to be. What affects the faithfulness with

which we make, and the confidence with which we receive each

others' promises,      we are to make and receive them, most im
                                                                                                                             is

portant to our happiness. God be with you. Pray to Him to guide

you aright, and you see to be right to go on, may He be with us

in our journey through life, keeping us united in the ties of the
deepest mutual affection and in the ways of His commandments,
until pleases Him to call one of us away and at last when this
a

  1I

        it
                           if

                                                       is

                                           I it
                                           isI

                                                                                                                 :
transitory state of our probation over may we dwell for ever

before Him.

     cannot feel as you would draw back, but you must take

your choice.

     a.m. on Sunday morning. ..then                                                                               right that you should

even now draw back, nor heed though should go to the grave

  thinking machine unenlivened and uncheered and unwarmed by
the happiness of domestic affection. But will not dwell on this

72 EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

Ifor do not believe it can be the case : you mentioned it merely

as passing thoughts which troubled you, and which you told

lovingly and conscientiously to me, and I don't love you the less

for having told them out or even for having had them.

     Sunday morning now. Your letter set me so thinking about

Iour feelings that, though it is not far from church time, will put

my thoughts on paper. You spoke of making me happy. Mary,
I had no prospect of happiness except on condition of your being
Ihappy too, and one part of my own happiness
                                                 looked on as
consisting in the endeavour to make you happy. It seems to me

you did not do well to attempt a compromise after the great

letter. It would have been better if you had put it pointedly and

Iopenly to me, could love you so as to make you happy ? And

for want of that you have gone on contenting yourself with the

prospect of a milk and water love, and it is no wonder when your

marriage-day drew nigh you had a desolate feeling of unsatisfac-

tion  Till your yesterday's letter there was nothing to prevent

the feeling of full satisfaction with which I could make you my

bride, and there is nothing still except your suspicion. The

happiness of deep affection outweighs in my mind the happiness

of the scientific leisure which I give up, but the happiness of

the scientific leisure may outweigh mere milk and water affection.

I feel prepared to make my promises provided you feel prepared

to believe in them ; but a great love on the one side requires

a great trust on the other, and you must trust me for love as well

as for everything else, nay, as being about the most important
Ifpoint of all. There must be no half measures.
                                                 you feel that

you cannot trust me, put off our marriage, even for ever if you feel
that you never can. And yet I am your faithful, Gabriel.
[She wrote, Sept. 26, 1857, " When you come you will tell me
if those great pendulum experiments could not be done in April.
IYou say that there will be a clear month then.
                                                 do not think
I could like anything so well as knowing that they were going on ;

sitting in the room with my work or books if it were so allowed."]

                      Pembroke College, Cambridge,

My own dearest Mary,  Dec. Zlst, 1857.

      IHere sit to write to you my first letter since you

became my wife, in the very place, in the very room, where

EARLY MARRIED LIFE                                           73

I wrote the first letter I ever wrote to you. A very different sort
                                          I got to College about
of letter this, just a bit of quiet talk
half-past one. I found Arlett and Ferguson here. In speaking

of Professorial matters both declaimed warmly against the absur

dity, as seemed to them, of creating a new Professorship before

endowing the existing ones. There does not, however, appear the

least sign on the part of the University of any movement towards

an earlier endowment. It remains to be seen whether the

Commissioners will be content. By the Act the power of the

University to originate new statutes expires with this year now

almost defunct, and then with respect to statutes not yet made

they have only the power of accepting or rejecting what the

Commissioners offer. The Commission expires Dec. 31, 1858,
unless Her Majesty pleases to renew it for one year, which she can

do. So we are likely to have an inkling before very long of how

matters are going.

    ...I should certainly like very well to be able to settle down
in nice quiet Cambridge, but if it may not be we must settle else
where and be thankful that we have so much happiness. I think

it would be better for me as well as for you to settle in some nice

quiet country-like place rather than in a flat or one of Cubitt's

houses.

    And now I will stop to write to Lizzie before post, and just

wish my own Mary a happy new year. Poor Mary ! left in the

fogs of London while I am enjoying the fresh air and quiet of

Cambridge. God keep you. Your loving husband.

                                          Pembroke College,

My dear Stokes,                           Dec. 18, 1857.

            I enclose the map of the spectrum which you wish for.

I cannot find in the portfolio any other papers relating to the

subject. You may well remark on the provision for the Lucasian

Professor some eight years hence. Several of us on the Council

fought for the common-sense principle of first taking care of
what we now have, and adequately endowing the Lucasian before

founding the Sadlerian Professorship, but we were beaten. How

Iever, think it very likely that the Commissioners will not be

content to look so far forward, and will try to devise some quicker

mode of raising the wind.

                         EARLY LETTERS TO LADY STOKES

   I am not surprised at Mrs. Stokes falling in love with
IHighgate, but wish we could get you away from Hampstead,

Highgate and such like places back to old Alma Mater.
                                                         Yours very truly,

                                                       J. C. ADAMS.

                                     Pembroke College, Oxford,

Dearest Mary,                               28 June, 1860.

      I intended to tell you, but forgot, that Adams told me

in the train that there is a comet now visible with a tail 4° or

5° long. It is (or was) about 23° from the Sun, towards the

INorth, so that it does not set all night. quite forgot it last night,
Ibut at any rate there would suppose have been no chance of
Iseeing it. Indeed remember now it was raining.

           Section A [British Association] broke up early to-day,

Ithough there is ordinarily a crush of matter towards the end.

A little after 12 went off to Section D, where there was a paper
by Dr Daubeny, " Remarks on the final causes of the sexuality

of plants, with particular reference to Mr Darwin's work On the

Origin of Species by Natural Selection," which excited a great
deal of interest. The room was filled as full as it would hold,

and the paper produced discussion in which Owen and Huxley

took part.
                                                                           Saturday, June 30/60.

   I certainly was not vexed about the accident ; though I would
Irather it had not happened, still was more sorry at least at first
for the annoyance it was to you. Never mind; I dare say a few

shillings will repair the damage, and perhaps even it may do as

well as it is and it may be only the appearance that is somewhat
spoiled. It is well it was not the quartz.
I heard a day or two ago that our friend Fischer is going to be
Imarried in about a month. Better late than never.
                                                            see no

symptoms of the kind about Adams, unless it be that he got a

letter he seemed to read with much interest, and stayed late for

dinner in order to write something.

went                                            Oxford, Sunday, July 1st, 1860.

        IAfter breakfast at [Bartholomew] Price's, Adams and

      to the University Church, where there was the morning

prayer as far as the end of the Litany; followed by a sermon, very

                    FRIENDSHIP WITH ADAMS                   To

clever, but rather of the new Oxford School, and having a strong

tendency, in my mind, to ignore Providence and the use of prayer,

though the subjects were not directly touched upon, the latter at
Ileast, and though
                    dare say the preacher may have had some
Iway in his own mind of reconciling the two.
                                                    could not help

admiring my friend Adams afterwards when we met some other

friends who were praising the sermon; for while I remained

silent he came clearly and boldly out in defence of what we hold
Ito be the orthodox view.
                             could not help feeling rebuked, and
Istill more when remembered a sentence in your father's letter ;
I Ifor felt that would have let the thing pass in silence when
II ought to have spoken, though should not have put the thing

as clearly, had not indeed apprehended it as clearly, as Adams

put it. We lunched at Price's and afterwards went to the 2 p.m.

University Sermon, a very cold affair, as it seemed to me, and

so slowly and mouthily delivered for a sermon addressed to the

Ireason that could not well follow it. After the sermon we took

a walk, and at 4 went to Christ Church Cathedral. After the

service we fell in with the Willises (Prof., Mrs and Miss)  with
                                                            were
whom we went about till 6.30.

    Yesterday Adams and I dined with the V.C. There

at dinner Prince Frederic of (I think) Sleswig Holstein, Lord
Wrottesley, the Willises, Mr Senior, Mr Kay Shuttleworth, and

two or three others. After dinner we went to a great crush soiree
at Dr Daubeny's.

    I should guess two days as the most probable time the Com

Imissioners will sit this week, in which case should probably be

back on Wednesday at 9.15 p.m

                                               Lexsfield Cottage, 6th Oct., 1860.

        I own I have felt the want of talking, especially the quiet
Italk of one's own family. Arlett and Power have come back and

am to dine there to-morrow.
I paid Miller to-day £3. 4s. 3Jrf., the remainder of the
cost of the "Glasgitter*," making in all £6. 4s. 3hd. It is certainly
Ia splendid one.    feel pretty sure the crystals I mentioned are
Inot phylloxanthine, but I have come across quite different in ap

pearance which believe are. I was thinking of writing a bit
Ito your father to tell him about my chlorophyll work, but dosed

after dinner and there would not be time now before post. Your

                    * Optical diffraction grating.

76 LIFE AT LENSFIELD COTTAGE

long letter to Lee reached me to-day. They sent it to the Royal

Society and Miller brought it for me here        Otto Struve men

tioned at breakfast to-day a curious case of matrimonial felicity;

a couple of whom one was Dutch who could speak no English and

the other English who could speak no Dutch, and their servant

was a Pole who spoke German. The couple could only commu

nicate with one another in very bad French, and for domestic

arrangements the language was I believe an attempt at German....

         Please have a bullock's and a sheep's bladder for me by
IIthe time
               get back.  can choose whichever seems likely to

do best    -.

                                                                                                      Oct. 12, 1860.

         IYou may tell your father am pretty sure there is a

second yellow substance in chlorophyll*. The spectrum of Lens-
Ifield lawn pretty well satisfied me that there is.
Isuspicions of it before. It was only shortly before              had had

                                                                  went to
I ILondon that observed this spectrum, and therefore have not

yet been able to follow it out.  Royal Society, 12 Oct., 1860.

I am glad of a day for your return being pretty well fixed, but
I Ia week seems a good way off. I return to Cambridge to-night,
but I own      feel to care very little whether  return or stay

till to-morrow. It is not so when a certain person is there, for
Ithen look forward to it with the greatest pleasure. However
Iyou or rather would not gain much if you came back a couple of

days earlier, for 1 am to dine with General Sabine on Wednesday

and there is to be a meeting of the Council on Thursday. Don't

so fix a day as to cross if it is not settled weather

RELATION OF SCIENCE TO THEOLOGY.

         Letters to MR ARTHUR H. TABRUMf.

Sir,                                          Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,
                                                         Jan. \Qth, 1895.

         I can reply at once, and with much pleasure, to your

enquiries.
     (1) As to the statement that "recent scientific research has

shown the Bible and religion to be untrue," the answer I should

           * See Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. iv. p. 236 (1864).

           t An official of the London Post Office.

                          SCIENCE AND RELIGION                          77

Igive is simply that the statement is altogether untrue.                know

of no sound conclusions of science that are opposed to the Christian
religion. There may be wild scientific conjectures put forward by

some, chiefly those whose science is only at secondhand, as if

they were well-established scientific conclusions, and which may
be of such a nature as to involve, on the assumption that they are

true, certain religious difficulties; I would not go so far as to

speak of opposition, as for the most part religion and science
move on such different lines that there is hardly opportunity for

opposition.
      But if an appearance of opposition may sometimes arise from
Ithis cause, it far oftener,
                                 think, arises from the errors of de

fenders of the faith once delivered to the saints, in putting forward

                                              I

                                                         it,

                                                                  I
propositions which are mere human accretions to and present
ing the two as they had equal claims to acceptance. When
speak of the errors of defenders of the faith am not thinking of
learned theologians of the present day, but rather of those of

   bygone age, from whom these human accretions passed into
the popular theology, and were supposed to be involved in the
Christian faith. This mistaken belief afforded infidels handle
a

                      if

                                              a
                                                        a
                                                             is

                                                                     a
    for attacking the faith through the error involved in some of the

accretions to it.

      To illustrate my meaning will refer to proposition dogma
             I

                                     I
    tically laid down as part of the Christian faith in standard book
             believe one or two centuries ago. It
    written                                                           that the

    Christian doctrine of the future resurrection requires us to believe

    that all the particles of the present body, however widely sepa
    rated, even though the body may have been burnt to ashes and
    the ashes strewn to the winds, will be brought together and will

be re-animated to form the future body.         dare say many an
                                        a
infidel lecturer has descanted on the difficulties of believing such
                                            I
is aproposition as that. But before the Christian apologist replies

    by simply falling back on the principle that "with God all

    things are possible," he would do well to consider whether there

      any occasion to defend the proposition at all. My own con

    viction that there no such proposition at all involved in the
             is           if
                   it
    Scriptural doctrine of the Resurrection. The notion thatis          it
                                                                             is

    involved in seems to me intensely silly.

      I  should doubt you would find single theologian at the

    present day who would regard that proposition as connected in

78 ATTITUDE OF SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERERS TO RELIGION

any way with Christianity. But I doubt if infidel lecturers have

yet given up harping on it.

    I may appear to have been treating a theological fossil as if it

were a living animal. But it may serve very well as an illustration

of my meaning.
I(2) You say "as far as my reading goes I am of opinion that
true religion and true science harmonise."      am of the same

opinion.

    (3) You ask if it has been my experience to find " the great
est scientists irreligious"? That has not been my experience, but
the reverse. To confine myself to my own line of mathematical

and physical science, and to those who are no longer on earth,

though not very many years dead, I could not well select more

Ieminent scientists, of world-wide reputation, than Faraday, Clerk-
Maxwell, and Adams, the discoverer of Neptune.      knew all three
Ivery well, especially Maxwell and Adams, with whom was very
Iintimate.
            know that they were all deeply religious Christian

men. Yours very faithfully,                 p ~ STOKFS

     P.S. There is nothing private in this letter.  You may do
anything you like with it.

                                                     Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,
                                                               29 April, 1899.

    I now return you James's Human Immortality. The materialist
makes human nature monistic --body alone, a wonderful material

organism, acting merely by the physical forces, and by them alone
performing its functions, thinking included. James's book is good
as pointing out the insufficiency of materialism, and suggesting

Ia substitute which is a great improvement. But he is think

radically wrong in making human nature bi-partite instead of
tri-partite --consisting of a body acted on from without by an
individual something in which personal identity is supposed to
consist, and which when relieved from the clog of the body, as it

is at death, performs its functions all the more actively. Accord
ingly he supposes that man is by his nature immortal. He shirks
the difficulties as to the lost by setting aside that question. He

is I think at the bottom of his heart a universalist, though he
hardly confesses it even to himself. In fact his speculations draw

him strongly in that direction, though he feels that in some way

or other that goal cannot be reached.

           CONDITIONAL IMMORTALITY                              79

     There is a striking passage, in this connection, in the writings
of Justin Martyr, in his dialogue with Trypho the Jew. Justin

relates to Trypho the history of his own conversion, which came

as the result of a conversation he had had with an old man of

meek and venerable manners, whom he fell in with as he was

walking in a meadow by the sea-side. From what we know of
probable dates, it does not seem impossible that this old man may

have talked with St John. In the course of a conversation about

the Platonic philosophy, the old man says (I quote from the

Clarke translation) :

    " For to live is not its (the soul's) attribute, as it is God's;

but as a man does not live always, and the soul is not for ever

conjoined with the body, since, whenever this harmony must be

broken up, the soul leaves the body, and the man exists no longer,

even so, whenever the soul must cease to exist, the spirit of life

is
            it,

                   it

                                          is

                                                            it
is removed from and there  no more soul, but goes back to

the place from whence was taken."

This in full accord with St Paul's description of man in

his entirety as consisting of spirit, soul, and body, and with our

Lord's teaching that man can kill the body, and after that has no
more that he can do, but God can destroy both body and soul --
both body and being--in Gehenna.

                           Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

                                                   Oct., 1899.
Dear Sir,                          5
                                           a
The objection you tell me that sceptics raise to the

resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, on the ground that
                                                                ?
would be scientifically impossible, admits of very short answer,
                                                                          is
namely, that science has nothing to do with it. Surely no one on
                                                                             it
the Christian side contends that that resurrection was natural,

but supernatural, and as such lies outside the ken of science
                           it

altogether. The only logical standpoint for the scientist who

would deny the resurrection on the ground you mention           by

maintaining that science covers the whole of the complex nature

of man, so that he has nothing to do with anything that lies outside
the domain of science. Is that assumption reasonable
                                                                Biologi

cal science concerns itself with the properties of living things,

animal or vegetable. But science never has explained, nor does
there seem to be the remotest prospect that ever will be able to
                                   it

80 NATURE OF CHRISTIAN EVIDENCES

explain, the origin of life. Science cannot explain the feeling we
have of right and wrong. Science does not cover the whole of

man's complex nature.

   IThe admission of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, if regarded

as a dry isolated fact, would think be of little or no value.

It seems to have been God's design that it should not be so

regarded. We read, " God raised him from the dead and showed
him openly, not unto all the people, but unto witnesses chosen
afore of God." Were admission of the fact of the resurrection the

one important thing, the obvious way (if one may so speak with
out irreverence) to secure it would have been to have shown Him
openly. The evidence for the resurrection of Jesus Christ is

never to be separated from a consideration of the character and
teaching and works of Jesus Christ. The head and the heart
must go together. To demand that the alleged fact of the resur
rection shall be accepted or rejected on purely scientific evidence,
is to act like a judge who in a trial in which there were a great

number of witnesses, whose several testimonies would so dovetail

into one another as to produce conviction in the minds of the jury,

should arbitrarily select one of the witnesses (and he perhaps by
no means the most important) and refuse to allow any of the others

to come forward.

Dear Sir,         25 July, 1900.

I had to go by an early train yesterday to London, and

a little beyond, to be present at the funeral of a late friend, and

did not return till latish, so that I could not well have answered

your letter much sooner.

   If the sceptics affirm that the present condition of things has

gone on from a past eternity, and is adapted to go on for an

Ieternity to come, can only say that they fly in the face of the
Ibest, might almost say universal, scientific opinion, including

that of some few scientists who appeared to have been sceptics

themselves.

     As far as our scientific knowledge goes, matter is indestructible;
it can neither come into existence nor cease to exist. But much

more than the existence of matter is involved in the continuance

of the present state of things. Consider what is required for the
continuance of animal life, say man. Man requires food, and that
food is derived, directly or indirectly, from vegetable life ; directly,

            FINITE DURATION OF SUN'S HEAT                81

Ias when eat bread, made from the seed of a grass, indirectly as

when I eat mutton, the flesh of an animal that eats grass. With

the exception of fungi, which we may regard as vegetables of

prey, vegetables absolutely require light. It is only under the

influence of light that the leaves of trees are able to perform a

function the reverse of combustion: to decompose the carbonic

acid of the air, appropriating the carbon, of which by far the

greater part of their dry weight consists, and setting free the

oxygen. This light they obtain from the radiation from the sun.

The sun is continually giving out an enormous amount of energy,

which can be measured like the energy given out from a steam-

engine.

    But where is the supply? In the case of a steam-engine the

ultimate source of energy resides in the coals and the oxygen of
the air. But what feeds the sun ? The solar energy is derived,

not from combustion, but from the energy of descending weights:
from the energy given out by its contraction, like that of a

descending weight. The wound-up weight of a clock is a source

of energy, and keeps the clock going; compensates the small
friction which would tend to stop it. But when the weight can

come to the bottom the supply of energy ceases, and the clock

runs down.

Just so, the particles of the sun tend to fall inwards, and to

a certain extent do so fall, under the influence of the gravitation

arising from the mutual attraction of the particles, which is
Ia force directed nearly towards the centre of the sun.
                                                         say

"tend" because the fall is in some measure prevented by the

lateral velocity, putting the particles in some degree in the
condition of planets. But it is only to a certain extent that the
inward motion is thus presented ; were it otherwise, there could

be no permanent giving out of energy. The contraction it is evi

dent cannot go on indefinitely. For the sun, just as for our steam-
engines, we are living upon capital ; in the latter case we are

drawing upon our bank deposit, we are exhausting our coal

fields. At the present day there is a tolerable agreement among

scientific men to regard nebulae as suns in process of formation,

while among the stars there are a few smaller ones which are

blood red. These are generally looked upon as effete stars ; stars

in process of extinction.
     Next as to the origin of life. The doctrine of abiogenesis,

s. b. i.                                   6

82 ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF LIFE

that life can originate from non-life, is pretty well completely

knocked on the head. My late friends, Huxley and Tyndall, whom

even the sceptics would hardly suspect of being led away from the

truth by theological prejudices, are about as strongly against it

as any. You only ask about the origination of life. Of course

there is a great deal more to be considered than that of its

mere origination. There are vast gaps between the life of a grass,
Ithat of a fish, that of a bee, that of a man.
                                                 do not think

that science has succeeded, and I doubt if it will ever succeed, in

filling these in. Yet on the other hand what naturalists regard as

distinct species of living things, plant or animal, frequently ap

proach each other so nearly that one cannot help thinking that

what are commonly called second causes come in.

However, as regards the main question, those who say that

the present order of things has gone on from a past eternity, and

is calculated to go on for an eternity to come, only, in my opinion,

thereby display their own scientific ignorance.

   It is high time I should return you your book. I have read

the article about my "I," and the Easter Egg. As to the former,

it is amusing the way he takes for granted that I knew nothing

about Bishop Courtney's nor about Archbishop Whately's book.

I have read the former, and have got copies of the passage in

the latter referred to in the form of a tract.

   IAs to the "Easter Egg," have already, I think, discussed

with you most of the arguments. In p. 211, about a third of the

way down, we see indications of the way in which incautious

dogmatism, from which the popular theology is by no means free,

puts weapons into the hands of adversaries.

   IWith apologies for having kept the book so long, remaiu,

yours faithfully.

P.S. I have noted an inaccuracy at the bottom of p. 207.

The Paschal lamb need not be a firstling.

                                                                                              Zrd August, 1900.

   II do not think that what have written need create in your

mind any difficulty. It is merely a question of the meaning that

we attach to the word "science." We have first pure science,
suppose mathematics, where we deduce certain conclusions from
axiomatic premisses, and secondly natural science, where we have
to deal with external nature, made known to us through our

SIMILARITY OF ATOMS SUGGESTS DESIGN        83

senses. In the latter case invariable sequences give us the idea

of cause and effect, and we are led to regard observed phenomena

as the effect of such and such causes acting together.

    In our laboratories we can resolve water into two gases, oxygen

and hydrogen; we can burn carbon in oxygen, forming a heavy
gas (carbonic acid) which was not there before, and so on. But
the weight of the water which disappeared is just equal to the
weight of the oxygen and hydrogen which were produced; the
weight of the carbonic acid produced is just equal to the weight
of the carbon which disappeared plus that of that portion of the
oxygen which is oxygen no longer, but was employed in the
formation of carbonic acid. So far as we know scientifically, a
certain weight belongs to a certain material, which we can neither

increase nor decrease by chemical changes.
     We are thus led to the contemplation of, and the quantitative

measurement of, what we call matter.

     As far then as our scientific knowledge can teach us, matter
can neither be created nor destroyed.

     Science, however, leads us to the contemplation of something
more. We have reason to believe that matter does not form a

continuous plenum, but consists of ultimate molecules; and further
that in matter of a given kind, say the gas hydrogen, the mole
cules are all just like one another. An analogue of this in the

works of man is found only in manufactured articles. Thus the
Mint turns out a lot of shillings all like one another. This leads
us to the idea that hydrogen, for instance, did not exist just as it
is from a past eternity, but was in some way made. But there
science comes to the end of her tether; how it was made she

cannot inform us.

    I quite think that the existence of life is one of the strongest

arguments for the existence of a Living Being who is the Author
of life. In his Belfast address (Rep. Brit. Ass., 1874) Tyndall
in attempting to account scientifically for the origin of life was
led to attribute emotion to the ultimate molecules of matter in a

fiery mass of gas !

   I quite think with you that the great gaps which we find in

the series of animated things, both plants and animals, weaken
the theory that man came in an unbroken chain from some lowly
form of life. Yours very truly.

                                     6--2

84 FUNCTIONS OF THE ETHER

     For fear of any                                                         5 August, 1900.
conclusion to which
                      misunderstanding, I will just say that the

                      we are led by science --that (say) hydrogen

consists of a great number of ultimate molecules which are

all alike one another, in that respect resembling manufactured

articles, is valid as leading us to say that it must have been caused

in some way, instead of having existed as it is now from a past

eternity. But how it was caused, science cannot say.

Our experiments lead us to affirm that what we call ponder

able matter cannot be destroyed or brought into being; to affirm

it is a fixed entity. We have evidence of the existence of a stuff,

Ias will call it, which we call the luminiferous ether, which we

do not include in the term 'ponderable matter.' We recognise

it as possessing inertia, as does ponderable matter. But whether

or no ponderable matter is formed from the luminiferous ether,

is a matter about which we have absolutely no evidence. We

cannot convert hydrogen into ether, or ether into hydrogen, nor,

Ias observed, do we know whether such conversion is possible,

and therefore it is futile to discuss the question whether, if it be,

the inertia would remain unchanged.

    The 'manufactured article' argument is I think valid as

against the notion of ponderable matter, such as we know
                                                  i.

                                                         7

                                                                                it,
having existed from a past eternity. Yours very truly.

                                                  August, 1900.

In any case we must interpret Genesis with considerable

latitude. And the only reason why this creates a difficulty from

religious point of view           that religious people insisted on a
is a                              is
        a                                      a
slavish literalism; insisted on theories of verbal inspiration and

so forth; indulged in a sort of Bibliolatry; framed theory that
                                                  ;
                                                      ;

                                                         a

                                                                         it
the Bible must be interpreted in way just like that in which

a lawyer would interpret an Act of Parliament stuck to the

letter rather than attempted to catch the spirit even though

said that spiritual things are spiritually discerned.

         As to the origin of man         said that God 'formed man of the
                      a

                              it

                                     is
dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of

life, and man became living soul.' We have here, seems to
                                                       it

me, recognition of man in the completeness of his tripartite

nature. First we have the ponderable matter of which the body

            THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF MAN                     85

is formed; which the physicist can weigh and the chemist can

analyse just like the dust of the ground ; then we have a divine

energy acting on the ponderable matter, 'breathed into his nostrils
the breath of life'; and lastly the result of the interaction, 'man

became a living soul.' This accords with St Paul's division

(1 Thess. v. 23).
     This triple division of man's nature was not arrived at by

unaided human reason. Plato and very many followers of Plato
suppose that man in the completeness of his being consists of body
and soul. Man in the pride of his own strength is disposed to
think that he has in him a something which he calls soul, which

cannot but live for ever; which is half thought of (though expres

sion is not given to such a thought) as almost in a certain sense

independent of God. But St Paul says, 'in him we live and move
Iand are.'
            think in the N.T. that which a man gives up at

death, that which in some way forms the means of our future life,

is never called 'soul,' but 'spirit.' Take again the words on the

Cross, 'Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit.' Dying

Stephen said, 'Lord Jesus receive my spirit' Take again, 'Ye

are come unto the spirits (not souls) of just men made perfect.'
And as to the relation of spirit to the future life, see Rom.

viii. 10, 11.

    Spiritually I think what we are told in Genesis, in the passage

I have quoted as to the formation of man, is in full accord with

the teaching of the N.T. But how God formed man of the dust of

Ithe ground we are not told, nor are we, think, for spiritual

purposes concerned to know. We are by no means committed to

the supposition that it was something like the way in which
Ifa sculptor moulds his clay into a statue.
                                             we say that mental

powers and spiritual aspirations such as those of man were con

ferred on a previously existing animal, the idea may be somewhat
I Igrotesque, but don't think we can say it is irreligious.
                                                             don't

see that we need trouble ourselves about that. We may simply

say, We don't know, and for aught we can see there is no reason
why we need know. An M.D. friend of mine long since dead said

to me with reference to the similarity of general structure between

the body of man and that of lower animals, ' If we saw the keel

of a ship laid down, we could not tell what sort of a ship it was

going to be.' The conditions of a somewhat similar mode of

animal life in man and quadrupeds may require a somewhat

86 BIBLICAL ACCOUNT OF CREATION

similar general plan of structure, which weakens the argument for

ancestral derivation. But if we entertain the idea of ancestral

derivation as a hypothesis (it is I take it a long way off from

being an established theory) we may do so; and we are not to dub

a man an atheist for holding that view.
II see nothing against your notion that evolution and special
creation may have existed side by side.  have had the same

idea in my own mind, and am disposed to look favourably on it.

                                                    4 Windsor Terrace, Malahide.

                                                                                    17 Aug. 1900.

   I I Imeant (but believe forgot) to have written about Day 4.

Some have supposed that the general progress of creation in
Gen. i. is described as it would appear to a spectator on earth

if such there were. On this supposition there appears to be no

difficulty in reconciling the general order which seems on scientific
grounds the most probable with that of Gen. i.

     Day 1. We have first the creation of ponderable matter ; and
supposing such matter to exist, and then as now to be subject to
gravitation, light would be occasioned by collisions of matter on
matter, the greater part of which matter (confining ourselves to
the solar system) would be collected in a nebulous mass of vague

outline,--our sun in a juvenile stage.

     N.B. There would be alternations of day and night, though
from a dense mantle of cloud the heavenly bodies could not be

seen.

     There is scientific reason for thinking that the earth was
originally in a molten condition -- at a temperature so high (above
the 'critical temperature' for water, Andrews) that there would
be a continuous change of condition from water to steam.

     On further cooling there would be a separation of water into
the two conditions of water and steam. There would now be

a separate atmosphere, consisting probably mainly of nitrogen,

steam, and carbonic acid gas, separating the water under the
firmament, the chemical substance H20 in the physical condition
in which we call it water, from the water above the firmament in

the form of an enormous number of minute droplets forming cloud,
while all through the atmosphere H20 would be present in the
elastic state which we call steam.

     Day 2. Not until the cooling had advanced beyond the

     INTERPRETED RELATIVELY TO MAN'S INTELLIGENCE                                     87

preceding stage could there be water with a free surface, and

consequently could we have sea and land.

When the cooling had advanced a good deal the temperature

would be low enough to permit of the introduction of vegetation.
In the early stages it consisted in great measure of gigantic

(as compared with what we have now) cryptogams, the remains
of which are preserved in our coal measures. The plants would

get diffuse light through the mantle of cloud. Even now many

kinds of fern thrive best in shady places.
     Day 3. This vegetation, under the influence of light, would

decompose the carbonic acid in the atmosphere, appropriating

(in some state of combination) the carbon for future use as
coal, and introducing into the atmosphere free oxygen without

which animal life could not exist.

On further cooling the mantle of cloud would no longer be

continuous, but there would be intervals of clear sky, permitting

the sun and moon to be seen. They existed ages before, but

          5.

                       if

                                                                              is,
were invisible on account of cloud, as the sun                                     probably, to-day

to the inhabitants, any, of Venus. They are accordingly men

tioned as 'set' in the firmament of heaven on the 4th day.

Day                 The earth having been prepared by cryptogamic (and

other) vegetation for the introduction of animal life, we now have

animal life, first in connexion with the waters and birds. Among

very old remains we have saurians, winged reptiles, the archaeo-

pteryx, which seems to form a sort of link of connexion between

a winged reptile and a bird, fishes, etc.

Day                 Now we have mention of land animals, and last of
I
                6.
all Man.

   fail to see any such discrepancy, between what we read in

Genesis and what science renders probable, as need create diffi
                                                                                   a

culty. We must remember that on the side of religion we are not

concerned with more than broad outline, and on the side of
                    a
science, as regards forms of life the records are very imperfect.
In consequence of different structures and modes of life one kindit

of creature may be more likely to leave remains that survive in

the rocks than another, so that may not always be true that the

relative antiquity of strata in which remains are found corresponds

to the order of introduction of the form of life upon the earth.

I  shall probably remain here for three weeks or so.

88 IMMORTALITY CONDITIONAL

                                                24 August, 1900.

     The force (such as it is) of the objection which you represent
the sceptics as making turns mainly on the assumption very

Icommonly made, but which believe to be erroneous and un-

scriptural, that the soul of man is by its nature immortal.

    Scripture I think teaches that the final end of the wicked is

that they are destroyed for ever, not kept alive for ever in a state

of misery.

Free agency involves of necessity the possibility of falling

away, and the forfeiture, through the agent's own fault, of that

eternal life of happiness which he might have had. But there is

nothing in this opposed to the statement 'God is love.' Why

should God be debarred from creating a free agent, whom He

designs for an endless life of happiness, merely because that agent

may through his own fault forfeit the happiness for which he was

intended ? Such is according to the analogy of nature. A tree

has many seeds, but not all produce trees themselves. Some
come to an untimely end. Is the possibility of this a reason why

trees should not be endowed with seed ?  (such  as it is) of the
                                         their  introducing into
    It seems to me that the strength

arguments of the sceptics comes from

Christianity two things, neither of which belong to it. One is the

Turkish fatalism of ultra-Calvinism, the other the Platonic dogma

of the immortality of the soul.

              Jn ..              Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

The question  you asked      I If . f. 4 Jan. 1901.   believed    in

                         me was think whether
evolution. It seems to me hardly a correct expression because

evolution is not a cause, but the description of a process. Let me

illustrate my meaning by a concrete example. It has been known

from a very long time that the pole of the heavens, the point,

      of the heavens about which the stars appear to turn,
that  is,
                                 is

                             Ja
                                                   I

                                                                                      it,
                                                                                                             is, is
not fixed, but slowly changes its position in the starry heavens.

It really turns round the pole of the ecliptic, or the point in the

starry heavens which in direction perpendicular to the plane

of the earth's orbit, at the rate of once round in about 25,000 years.

The angle between the pole of the heavens, as called  that

the pole of the equator, and the pole of the ecliptic remains
nearly invariable -- about 23 degrees. That slow turning of the

                  FREEDOM OF INQUIRY ASSERTED                                             89

pole of the equator about the pole of the ecliptic is called (from

one of its manifestations) 'the precession of the equinoxes.'
      Now suppose a simple-minded religious person had heard that

it had been found that the place among the fixed stars occupied

by the sun at either (say the vernal) equinox was not quite the
same from year to year, but moved very slowly forwards along the

path in the heavens of the earth's orbit, so that the equinox was

arrived at a little earlier from year to year than it would other

wise have been, he might very likely have simply accepted it as a

                    it
                                                                                     it,
fact, not thought of attempting to give any reason for                                    but

contented himself with resting in the idea that God had so

ordained it. Nay, dwelling on the idea that 'the heavens declare

the glory of God, and the firmament sheweth his handywork,' he

might even think irreverent to seek for any explanation why

there should be any such anticipation, from year to year, of the

time of the equinox as compared with the position of the sun in

his apparent path among the fixed stars.

    It was one of the great achievements of Sir Isaac Newton, the

discoverer of universal gravitation, to have shown that the preces

sion of the equinoxes was a consequence of universal gravitation.

It phenomenon evolved from gravitation in the sense of
is
      is

        if is a

                                      is
unrolling in tracing the sequence of cause and effect. The in

vestigation of precession, and of the allied phenomenon of nutation,

now a subject of mathematical calculation. Nobody thinks

there  anything at all irreverent in that.

     But precession referable to gravitation, what, anything,it if
are we to refer gravitation itself to? Are we bound to say,

Gravitation exists because God willed               so, and         would be
                                          ?

                                                it
irreverent to attempt to go further or are we bound to say,

Just as precession              a consequence of gravitation, so gravitation
is

       it

                  by
                            is
must itself be a consequence of something else      ?

Newton himself was a religious man, and his writings show it.

It shown  the famous Scholium at the end of his immortal

work the Principia. He wrote largely on prophecies. Yet he

thought axiomatic that since the sun and the earth attract each

other there must be something or other between them or they

could not do so.

As to the alternative at the foot of                   there                   nothing
                                                    p.
                                                         2
                                                                         a is
irreverent in seeking to explain a phenomenon as a consequence

of something else, which explanation would constitute passage

90 EVOLUTION NOT A CAUSE BUT A MODE

from one link to another in the chain of causation. Nay a theist
might reasonably regard it as irreverent to forbid such an en
deavour. For that would come to measuring the mind of the

Almighty by our own minds, and presuming to assert that where

we do not see a prospect of further progress in the chain of
(secondary) derivation, no further progress in that direction can be

possible.            as it is usually treated, is chiefly thought of as
     But evolution,  went on in the past. Further, it is chiefly

something which

spoken of with reference to living things, plants, and more especi
ally animals. Can we in any way explain the origin of species?
Are we to suppose that each species, or what we regard as a

species, originated in the fiat of an almighty power? Or are we

to suppose that we are to go indefinitely backwards, and affirm

that a chain of secondary causation is to be continued indefinitely

backwards, though we can but trace it a little way if at all ?
    I should say, Neither the one nor the other. The evil (from a

theistic point of view) consists in treating evolution as a cause,
which it is not, instead of a mode. The former tends towards

the denial of a First Cause, the latter may safely be accepted
as a working hypothesis ; as a guide which may lead us from the
last link in the chain of causation which hitherto we have been

able to reach to a link yet further on, while still leaving what lies

beyond hidden in a cloud. The treatment of evolution as a cause,
capable of leading us on indefinitely, tends to shut out the idea
of a First Cause ; its treatment as a possible mode of sequence,

leading us a step or two onwards, still leaves the mind directed
towards a First Cause, though ' clouds and darkness are round

about Him.'

    I have endeavoured to put the thing before you as it appears

to my own mind. Remember Evolution does not mean a cause.

       APPRECIATIONS* BY COLLEAGUES.

By G. D. LIVEING, F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in
      the University of Cambridge, and Fellow of St
      John's College.

    I made acquaintance with Stokes in 1850 at the meetings

of the Ray Club. That was a society at Cambridge for the
cultivation of Natural Science by friendly intercourse, which
had been formed in 1837 in order to fill, so far as that could

be done without Henslow'si- inspiration, the gap left by the
cessation of Henslow's weekly receptions of members of the
University interested in Natural History. Natural History was

still, when I joined the Club, most frequently the subject of
conversation at its gatherings, and it may seem surprising that

Stokes, who at that time (1850) was best known as a great
mathematician, and had just been elected Lucasian professor,
should have been a very regular attendant at the weekly meetings
of such a Club. Really, however, his bent was to Natural

Philosophy, as his work showed, where his great mathematical
ability was employed in handling the problems of Nature. His
elder brother, William, a fellow of Caius, had been one of the

Ioriginal promoters of the Club, and was a mineralogist and a

Ichemist with whom fraternised at once ; but very soon found

that George Stokes was equally interested in the same subjects,
and quite as ready to discuss, with a beginner, questions connected
with them on which probably his own conclusions had been
reached by a much shorter induction. He did this, to my great
delight, with a deeper insight into nature's mechanism and more

Isuggestive remarks than had then met with from anyone else

except Professor Miller, who also was a member of the Club.
Stokes was not content with reaching any empiric law of nature,

     * The Obituary Notice of Sir George Stokes written for the Royal Society by
Lord Rayleigh in 1903 has been reprinted in Math, and Phys. Paper*, vol. v.
pp. ix -- xxv., and is therefore not included here.

    [t Rev. J. S. Henslow, of St John's College, Professor of Mineralogy 1822-25,

of Botany 1825-61, the friend and mentor of Charles Darwin's early years, resided
mainly at his living at Hitcham from 1837 onwards. Life, by L. Jenyns, 1862.]

92 APPRECIATION BY PROF. LIVKING

but was always pressing behind the scene to try and see how

Ithe processes were carried out. It was a pleasure to throw out
a suggestion, and hear what he thought of it, and  feel sure

it was a pleasure to him to help an enquirer. His thoughts

Istimulated mine, and it would be hard to tell how much learnt

Iin that way. In the company of other distinguished men, such as

Sedgwick, Peacock, and Whewell, have been well content to be

a listener; but the way to learn from Stokes was to get up a

discussion with him. Never had I any difficulty in getting him

to talk. His reputation for taciturnity was kept up, if not started,

by people who were afraid to talk to him. Never was a worse

founded fear, for he was not a specialist who could ride no hobby

but his own, much less was he in any degree egotistic or un

sympathetic. He read the newspapers and was generally informed

on the topics of the day, matters and men, and had his opinions

kindly and optimistic about them. He was willing to exchange

ideas with people who let him see that they had ideas to exchange,
but did not talk for talking's sake, and was not distressed if

people, who had nothing to say, said nothing. In truth he was
Imany-sided.
              have been associated with him as co-trustee and

in practical business of other kinds, and never found him a

sleeping partner. He did his part with caution, sound judgment,

and promptness, at the same time with full consideration for

others, who might be affected by his decision. Frequently when

I have spoken with too strong reprobation of somebody's action,

he has assented with a softening qualification which implied that

he would think no evil of the actor. Those who looked for a

brilliant repartee from him, or thought his smile a prelude to

a jocular remark on the follies of society, would, of course, be

disappointed, nevertheless he enjoyed a good story and sometimes
told one. His smile was no cynical one, but the natural expression
of sympathy with the bright faces about him. Of late years when

I have had one or other of my nieces living with me and he

has called at my house, they have, on his departure, expressed

astonishment that one whom they had heard spoken of as the

most silent man in the University should keep up a continuous

conversation during the whole time of his visit. On the ordinary

business and occurrences of the day he would say at once what he

thought and then perhaps drop the subject; while a philosophical,
or any serious question, though he may have said what occurred

SOCIAL AND INTELLECTUAL CHARACTERISTICS  93

to him at the moment about it, did not forthwith pass out of his
mind. He would refer to it again and again, sometimes for a

whole evening, notwithstanding the interruption of taking part
in conversation on various other matters. This persistence in

dwelling on a subject on which he had not yet formed a definite
conclusion, turning it over repeatedly to get new points of view,

was very characteristic, and recalled what Newton said of himself,

namely, that he excelled others only in the power of keeping his
attention constantly on the problem which he wished to solve.

Stokes certainly had, in a remarkable degree, the power of taking
pains to do whatever he had in hand as well as he could do it with
the means and material at his disposal.

      He was generally tolerant of other people's opinions, never

theless he had a philosophical contempt, shown in his tone rather

than in his words, for fanciful suppositions, not proved to have

any objective existence, invented to account for facts in nature.

Before his explanation of the suspension of clouds appeared, a
theory had been current that cloud -drops were bubbles, and in

Italking with him about his then recently published memoir

mentioned that theory, whereupon he brushed it aside with

unwonted brusqueness in the remark, " I can't think how that

theory ever came to be accepted -- there is absolutely no ground
for thinking the drops to be vesicular." His touch indeed had
burst that bubble, and no one could put it together again.

     The even balance of his mind was that of a strong man. His

activity was uninterrupted; he wasted no time in trying to evolve
truth out of the speculations of others, or in controversies with
fellow workers such as distracted Newton. In truth he never let

any occasions of such controversy arise ; for he never had any
jealousy of other workers in the same field, but was ever ready
 to communicate to them his views, and let them use them as

if they had been their own, repudiating, when it might have been
justly claimed, all share in the credit of the outcome. Many

 brilliant intellects have been lodged in frail bodies, with the
 result that their wits are sometimes in fine form and at others

 dull. Stokes' mental and bodily constitutions were closely akin,
 and had the like patient strength and staying power. His broad
 chest and firm carriage betokened strength. When he was an

 undergraduate, and for some time thereafter, the athletic games,
 now in vogue, were little heard of in the University. There was,

94 APPRECIATION BY PROF. LIVEING

however, more boating and riding and quite as much cricket ; but

I never heard of Stokes in connexion with such exercises, nor

did he ever talk to me about them, as he would have done if

he had ever been an active participant in them. One athletic

exercise I know that he enjoyed, namely, swimming. About the

end of the forties an association of graduates and undergraduates

I(which later became the Swimming Club) set up a new bathing

place in the Grautchester meadows. Stokes and were among

;

                      a
                           it,
the early members of and he was noted amoug us as a bold

and strong swimmer. He has spoken to me with warmth of the

keen enjoyment of battle with the waves when there was a good

sea on and he was just as fond of a sharp walk in the face of a
biting "nor'-easter." His bodily organs seemed always to perform

their functions healthily, in spite of hard usage. The fatigues of

long hours and frequent journeys seemed light to him, and he

enjoyed the stimulus of strong tea after dinner without the fear of

lying awake in bed after it.

    In spite of his activity his mental attitude was essentially

conservative, though he contrived to keep an open mind on

scientific questions. He did not accept theory until he had
                                a
                                               a

                                                it
                                                                         it,
satisfied himself that there was sound foundation for                         but

when accepted he did not hesitate to push to its logical con

sequences. At the meeting of the British Association at Edinburgh
in 1892, there was a discussion in Section A, on the question

whether the well-known yellow rays of a spirit lamp, with salt

in the spirit, were emitted by the heated sodium chloride or only

by molecules of uncombined sodium. The latter supposition did

not seem to commend itself to many of the chemists present,
but Stokes remarked as we left the room, " Temperature does not
produce any spectrum -- a mere motion through space does not

affect the aether-- there must be some chemical changes going on
in the flame." This was, no doubt, a logical deduction from the

kinetic theory of gases and the theory of light-waves in an

aethereal medium; and he adhered to to the end of his life,
a
   a

                     a

              I

                                                 it
for in conversation  had with him only a few months before

his death he made similar remark with reference to the spectrum

of carbon, a subject to which he often recurred. Nevertheless

in that same conversation his cautious mental attitude prevented

his giving assent to the argument that, because the thermal

effect of chemical combination can be shown to be the sum of

SCIENTIFIC INFLUENCE IN THE UNIVERSITY  95

several parts derived from the several components and dependent
only on their chemical natures, such effect must be derived from
changes in the intrinsic energies of the components. He had not
tested the theory of intrinsic energies, and so his final remark was,

"The heat is more probably due to some form of the potential

energy of an attraction."
      Stokes* mind certainly affected a great many members of the

University, as it affected me. Many have acknowledged how
much they owe to him, and his influence has contributed a great
deal to raise our school of Natural Philosophy, which produced
but few men in the earlier half of last century, to its present

Ifruitful state. But that influence was never, so far as am aware,

exercised consciously with a view to reform, though always with
a view to promote true science so far as possible. His instruction

was particularly effective because he was, as Newton had been,
himself an experimenter. His predecessor as Lucasian professor,
Dr King, never lectured ; nor did Babbage the penultimate
occupant of the chair. The Plumiau professor of Astronomy
and experimental Philosophy lectured in the forties on Hydro
statics and Optics, and showed various pieces of apparatus which

Airy had used to illustrate his lectures experimentally, but in

Challis' hands they were not even working models. We had
to get up Natural Philosophy by a painful exercise of the
imagination on diagrams and descriptions, and the abstractions
formulated by mathematicians to make calculation possible, which

presented Nature as a lifeless statue. Imagination could inspire
such a statue with life and activity, but it must be the imagination
of a mind already acquainted with nature ever moving and

energetic. Stokes at once set the study on a new footing, but
it was done at the expense of personal trouble undertaken un
grudgingly for very love. The University at that time possessed
 no laboratories, and provided no appliances for her professors,
 much less for students, and did not in all cases provide even

lecture rooms. If it had not been for Miller, who left at St John's

 College apparatus for observing the spectrum of Nitrogen Dioxide,
 and in his lectures showed us conical refraction and other optical
 properties of crystals, we had no chance of seeing in Cambridge
 the optical effects of which we were expected to give the theoretical

Iexplanation. never attended Stokes' professorial lectures, for he
I Ihad not begun them when took my first degree, but have often

it,96 APPRECIATION BY PROF. LIVEINH

seen his experiments. At first these were made in his own rooms
in College, with very simple but effective apparatus, usually put
together with his own hands and always so manipulated. He
appreciated accurately the circumstances necessary to attain

Isuccess and spared no pains to ensure it. To the end of his life
  do not think that he ever had the help of a trained assistant for
his experiments. This independence was characteristic, and the
experience gained by it made him such a good critic of other
people's experimental work, equally of their methods and of their

results.

    I have often heard it remarked that Stokes seemed to take
all the honours bestowed on him as if they were matters of course.
IThat this was far from being the case feel sure. He was neither

cynical nor thick-skinned, but was naturally sensitive, and showed
a delicate consideration for the feelings of others which only those
who have fine feelings of their own usually show. He was not
really indifferent to the recognition of his merits, though he had
the control of his emotions which belongs to a strong character.
The attainment of that sort of distinction had never been the
object of his life; and when it came it was accepted with pleasure,
while the withholding of it would never have disturbed his
equanimity. His sensitive nature contributed a great deal to
his success in helping the labours of other workers at science,
for it enabled him to set errors right without offending the
authors. How much more anxious he was to advance knowledge
than to win honour for himself is fully proved by the amount

of thought and trouble he bestowed on his office of Secretary to
the Royal Society. Many whom he has assisted testify to it.
Anyone less true to his instinct of duty, less willing to spend
his own time and labour without reward, would have let many
a mistaken investigator publish his errors, or have quashed
discoveries of real value because they were ill-presented. Stokes
did neither; he took extraordinary pains with papers on physical
subjects presented to the Royal Society, first to ascertain that

the experiments described were trustworthy, and then to make
sure that he understood the author's theory, consulting other
experts when he felt any doubt. Eminently conservative as he
was, he nevertheless was in no hurry to reject a theory merely
because it was not orthodox, but would suggest methods of testing

    or modifications to meet objections, and so, without throwing

        ACTIVITY AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY                                                                                         97

good work after bad, he saved a great deal of good work which
would else have been wasted because imperfect. That he might
have enhanced his reputation as a discoverer by giving the time
spent on other people's work to investigations of his own there
can be no doubt ; but considering how few could have done
successfully what he did and how many fewer would have done
the actual progress of knowledge has, in all probability, been
greater through his choice of path on which he and others pulled

willingly together.
              a

                                                                      it,

        By Sir MICHAEL FOSTER, K.C.B., F.R.S.

        saw very little of Stokes shall venture in what have to
II      ;                               II
    I                                           I
                  I (I
                         I
say, to use the simple name without the titles) until went to
Cambridge in 1870 for in the few relations which up to that

had with the Royal Society naturally turned to his brother

secretary, William Sharpey, who was my great personal friend.
Nor in the succeeding ten years did come into close or frequent

touch with him either at Cambridge or at the Royal Society.
                                        ;

                                                II
joined the latter in 1871 but Sharpey's successor as Secretary
           ;

was Huxley, and he again was my very close friend to him

naturally appealed in all matters relating to the Society.

        have however still vivid recollection of a remarkable feat ina

the summer of one of the late seventies. It was the last meeting

of the Society in June, and at that period the number of papers

which, not having yet been read, had to be read at the last meeting

was usually very considerable. On that occasion there were think
                                        it,
nearly thirty, and these dealt with very many different branches of
                                              ;
science, mathematical, physical, chemical, geological, biological, and;

                                                        a

                                                     I
other.  remember distinctly how Stokes, standing up, and taking

the paper first on the list, gave, in very few words, marvellously
              a

clear account, such as all of us could understand, of what the paper

was, what the author proposed to do in  and how he did it.

Each paper in turn he treated in the same way of each he gave

an exposition, a model of brevity and lucidity and he seemed to

us no less successful with the biological and geographical papers

than with those dealing with mathematical and physical themes.

As we listened to him, we seemed to grasp quite easily what each

author in succession desired to bring before the Society. Only at

s. b.   i.

                                                                                                                           7

98 APPRECIATION BY SIR MICHAEL FOSTER

the end did he seem to fail. With characteristic self-denial he

had placed two papers of his own the last on the list. When he
came to deal with these his manner somehow changed ; and I, at

Ileast, went away with the feeling that had understood every

Ipaper except Stokes' own.

    In 1881 was appointed Secretary to the Society, taking the

place of Huxley.

The work of the Society may be described as threefold in

character. There is what may be called the internal scientific

work, all that relates to the communications made to the Society,

to the reading of papers, and to their publication in the Trans

actions or Proceedings. Then there is the external scientific work,

the negociations with the Government or with other bodies, home

or foreign, concerning scientific undertakings or scientific questions,

the initiation or superintendence of scientific inquiries or expedi

tions, and the like. Lastly, there is the domestic work, all that has

to do with the organisation of the Society itself, its internal

economy, the arrangements for the meetings, the library and the

publications, and so on.

Though of the two Secretaries one is chosen for his acquaintance

Iwith the physical sciences and the other for his acquaintance with

biological sciences, found, on taking office, that the duties devolv

ing on each secretary were not arranged according to this division.

One secretary took the whole, or at least the main part of the in

ternal scientific work, both physical and biological, and the other

similarly took the external scientific work, both sharing with the

Treasurer the domestic work. Huxley, before me, though junior

Secretary, had taken the external work, and, on my succeeding

him, Stokes, who naturally had the choice as to which duties he

should take up, decided to continue to go on with the internal

work, which had been under his care for so many years.

   I Iam not sure, but believe that the division of labour of
which I have just spoken was in practice when Stokes became
IfSecretary in 1854.
                          so, the charge of the publications of the

Society was in his hands for the long period from that date until
he became President in 1885. And it would be difficult to over

state the amount of the labour which Stokes bestowed on these

duties during this long period. Though he naturally consulted

his brother-secretary from time to time on the biological questions

which were raised by the biological communications, nevertheless

EDITING OF THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS                      99

the sole charge of at least the main part of the communications of

all kinds devolved on him, from the receipt of the communication

in manuscript until its publication in the Transactions or Proceed

ings. He made it his duty to make himself acquainted, so far as
it was possible for him to do so, not only with the form but also

with the substance of every paper which came in. He spared no

pains in his efforts to secure that the form should be as good as

possible under the circumstances. It is a matter of common

knowledge that a scientific investigator, in making known what

he believes to be a new truth, is more anxious about the substance

of what he has to say than the way in which he says so that theit it,

latter at times leaves much to be desired. Stokes, as Editor of the   is

Proceedings and Transactions, did his best to neutralize this ten

dency, carefully reading through the whole of the proofs, and, as

these passed through his hands, making valuable suggestions to

the author with the view of rendering the meaning of the sentences
more clear. And, recognizing that the obscurity of a passage

often due to imperfect punctuation, he at times felt his duty to

offer advice to an author even with regard to his commas and

semicolons. The papers which the Society published during

Stokes' secretaryship are doubtless not in all cases models of lucid

and elegant English but where there failure in this respect the
it                       ;
                 ;
                               is
fault cannot be laid at Stokes' door he, during long years, did his

best to make otherwise.

Though he thus spent much labour on mere form, and so con

tributed in an indirect way to the progress of science, which
                                                a

                                                     if

                                                          it

                                                                       is
dependent on new truths not only being made known, but being

readily understood, he did not neglect substance. And        seem

to many that his zeal for form brought in reality great loss to

science, since took up time which might far more profitably have
it

been devoted to one or other of the many researches of his own

which he had always on hand, this reproach  is  not valid, or not
                                                         is

nearly so valid, as regards his efforts to secure that the substance
of the communications made to the Society should be as good as

possible. Even in the case of biological papers he from time to

time offered to the author valuable criticism, by following which

pitfalls were avoided, and the value of the paper, when      was
                                                         it
eventually published, largely increased. But naturally the aid
                                                                   a
thus given was most conspicuous in the case of papers dealing

with subjects with which he was familiar. Again and again,

                                                       7--2

100 APPRECIATION BY SIR MICHAEL FOSTER

young investigator bringing in a crude form the results of his in
quiries to the Society received from Stokes, before the account of
the research was published, not merely most valuable negative
criticism, through which the vexatious promulgation of false or
imperfect doctrines was avoided, but inspiring suggestions, through
which the inquiry was so modified or extended that the paper when

it finally appeared had a worth wholly different from that which it

would have possessed had Stokes' hand never have been put to it.

It is indeed difficult to say how much science gained through

Stokes' secretaryship by his editorial influence on the work of
others, stopping that which was not fit to appear, and moulding
a crude, imperfect effort into something worthy of being made
known.

    It must not be supposed, however, that Stokes took no part in

the often heavy and responsible duties imposed by the external
work of the Society. On the contrary, he was again and again
called upon to take charge of matters of this kind, which his special
knowledge fitted him to handle in an effective manner. And the
Archives of the Society contain copies of many valuable letters and
memoranda on astronomical, meteorological, and magnetic ques
tions, addressed to H.M. Government or to other bodies, all of

which bear, besides his signature, the mark of the clear, calm state
ment and accurate reasoning characteristic of everything to which

he put his hand.
     And in the domestic policy of the Society he took his share

along with his brother officers.
      When in 1883 the sad, premature death of Spottiswoode

suddenly left the Presidential chair vacant, Stokes might very
naturally have expected to be called upon to fill the place. The
high position which he by that time had for many years held as a
leader in investigation, to say nothing of his long services to the
Society, pointed to him as Spottiswoode's successor. But it was
felt by those who had the affairs of the Society more directly in
charge that, were a suitable person available, it would be desirable
to follow the custom through which a President whose acquire
ments are with the physical sciences is succeeded by one whose
acquirements are with the biological sciences. Hence their minds
turned to Huxley, whose claims to the honour of the chair were, in
his own line, no less than those of Stokes.

     Spottiswoode's death took place in the month of June, at a

PRESIDENCY OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY  101

time when the Society was in recess, and the affairs of the Society
were wholly in the hands of the permanent officers. The Treasurer,
Evans, the Foreign Secretary, A. W. Williamson, and myself took

counsel together, consulting so far as at that season of the year we
were able to do so, the chief members of Council and the leading

Fellows of the Society. The result of our deliberations was to ask
Huxley whether he were willing that we should bring forward his

name to the Council, with whom lay the duty of nominating some
one for election by the Society as President. Huxley gave us to
understand that, highly as he appreciated the honour proposed, h6
could not accept the nomination unless it were carried out with

the cordial support of Stokes. It fell to my lot to make known to

IStokes the views of his brother officers. My task, which, had

been dealing with some men, might have been extremely difficult,
proved extremely easy; his cordial support was at once unhesitat

ingly given, and Stokes remained the senior Secretary*.
     But only for a short time longer. For reasons of health

Huxley was led to resign the Presidency in November, 1885;

and Stokes was of course put in the vacant Chair.

      The five years, 1885-90, during which Stokes was President,
were not marked by any stirring or disturbing events, so far as the
affairs of the Society were concerned. He was never called upon
to exert, in any crisis, the autocratic power with which, by tradi
tion, the Society invests its President, or, in any emergency, to
take up unexpected responsibilities. The circumstances of the
Society during his term of office demanded no more than that he
should " pursue the even tenour of his way."

     That he did with his habitual calm and wonted dignified
quietude. His general mental attitude was that which is usually
called conservative, and this he brought to bear on the affairs of
the Society, to the Society's gain. His Presidential actions were
not of the initiative kind ; he left the unfolding of new projects to
other more progressive Fellows of the Society, some of whom were
always to be found on each year's Council. He spoke seldom, and
never at any great length, from the Chair, with Presidential autho
rity. But his long experience of the affairs of the Society, his
great knowledge of what had been done, the exactitude with
which he was able to state what could and what could not be done

within the laws and customs of the Society, gave the utmost

             [* Cf. Prof. Stokes' letter to Dr Romney Robinson, supra, p. 39.]

102 APPRECIATION BY SIR MICHAEL FOSTER

weight to his brief contributions to the discussions of the Council
and of the Society. He did not vehemently urge the Society for
ward, but he used his powers and position to prevent it hurrying
in the wrong direction.

    IOne little incident, and so far as know one only, marred for a

little while and to a slight extent the even tenour of his Presidential
way. Some Fellows of the Society held very pronounced views
about the nature of the office of the President; they regarded it as
being what almost might be called sacred in character, not to
incur danger of being defiled by touch with common things ; they
urged that the virtue of the holder of it should be placed beyond
all suspicion. Huxley, as may be seen from his Life and Letters,
held this view very strongly. So soon as he himself became Presi
dent he at once resigned all positions already held by him, and
refused to accept any new ones which he considered inconsistent
with the office. He thought that the President of the Royal
Society ought not to be a Member of Parliament, since in that
position he would be exposed to party temptations and to party
public abuse ; and ought not to be the President of such a Society
as the Victoria Institute, since the fact of the same man holding
both offices might be quoted by some as indicating that the Royal
Society took up a position concerning the relations of science to
religion. And he wrote in Nature an unsigned letter urging that
Stokes, who was both Member of Parliament and President of the

Victoria Institute, ought to be neither. The letter had no effect
on Stokes ; he continued to hold both offices. Indeed, he hardly
seemed to realize the point of view of the writer of the letter ; he
fancied that it was dictated by other motives. When he learnt
later that the letter had been written by Huxley, his dominant
feeling was that of astonishment ; he laughingly said that he
thought that it had been written by a Radical politician.

   If as regards the external scientific work of the Society Stokes

during his Presidency was of value as a judge and as a critic rather
than as an active ruler, his wide knowledge and his clear, critical in
sight made his position in the Chair one of extreme importance in
respect to the Society's internal work. His power of recognising
not only the hidden weaknesses but also the often not too obvious
worth of communications made to the Society, as well in biological
or geological matters involving in any way physical or chemical
considerations as in the subjects more clearly his own, strengthened

SCIENTIFIC POSITION                              103

as this was by an absolute single-mindedness of purpose, rarely,

one might say never, led astray by any secondary influences, gave

a valuable positive weight to the decisions of the Council. It

guided them to recognise early and to encourage the worth of the
initial efforts of young workers who had not presented their work
in the best possible way, and who might have been hardly judged
by those who could not distinguish so clearly and patiently as did
Stokes, the essential from the passing and the irrelevant.

By Sir W. HUGGINS, O.M., K.C.B, Past Pres. R.S.

I willingly adopt your suggestion to put down in a few

sentences, from my own personal reminiscences, an expression

of my appreciation of the personal character and of the very

high intellectual qualities of Sir George Stokes, whose acquaintance
Iand friendship for more than forty years
Ia great privilege and possession.         regarded indeed as

                                    became acquainted with him

in the early sixties, a few years after his appointment as Secretary

of the Royal Society, in his official character in connection with

Ipapers which communicated to the Society. This acquaintance
Igrew more intimate when became a member of the Council in
I1866. Soon found that I had gained a true friend, whose ready

sympathy and advice during frequent correspondence almost to

the time of his death, I regarded as precious beyond words.

One of the most distinguishing characteristic qualities of

Sir George, was the generous way in which he was always ready

to lay aside at once, for the moment, his own scientific work,
and give his whole attention and full sympathy to any point

of scientific theory or experiment about which his correspondent

had sought his counsel. Notwithstanding the many heavy duties

resting upon him, his reply came nearly always without delay by

an early post.
     Not less remarkable than his ready intellectual sympathy,

was the clear mental grasp with which he discussed the point
submitted to him, and the new light with which, in a few simple

sentences he surrounded it. His scientific instinct was of a very
high order, and all but unerring. In a quite unusual degree

he combined with unsurpassed mastery and originality in the

application of mathematical methods to physical problems, a very

104 APPRECIATION BY SIR W. HUGOINS

high endowment of that scientific imagination, or to use Bacon's

words, that "learned sagacity in the procedure from one experiment

to another" upon which rests success and progress in experimental

science.

His own experiments, like those of Faraday, were charac

terized by the extreme simplicity which is possible only to a

master-mind.

   I consider myself fortunate, indeed, to have had such a man as

correspondent and friend for so many years; I cannot even estimate

my indebtedness to him.

    In later years, Sir George had the consciousness, not too

common, that with increasing age some failure of his powers was

not improbable. In one of his letters he spoke of the decrease of

the sensitiveness of his eyes to violet light, and asked if I had the

same experience. In other letters he hoped that he had not
forgotten any points, and asked me " to jog his memory " if this

were the case. Due, no doubt, in part to his methodical habits,

I never noticed the smallest sign of forge tfulness.
   I hesitate to add any lighter reminiscences ; but in the first

I Itype-written letter received from him was amused by the

comment "that now I shall be able to read my own letters."

He was much interested, many years ago, when after a quiet
Idinner here, asked him to examine a mastiff which I then
Ipossessed, in elementary mathematics.
                                        claimed for my dog,
Iwhom had named Kepler, that he would answer with accuracy

any algebraical questions, of which the answers could be given

by a number of barks not exceeding five or six. The dog answered
successfully every question which Sir George put. He thoughtfully

remarked that there was clearly mind of some kind at work. My

own explanation of the dog's success is that he was able to read in

Imy face when he had barked the right number of times, though
  endeavoured to avoid giving him any sign.
     To sum up; -- in Sir George Stokes a great man indeed has

passed from us, whose greatness is most appreciated by those who

knew him best.

UNIVERSITY REPRESENTATIVE IN PARLIAMENT  105

By the Right Reverend GEORGE FORREST BROWNE,
      D.D., Lord Bishop of Bristol, Hon. Fellow of St
       Catharine's College.

    At a time when it seemed not improbable that a proposal

would be made to deprive the Universities of their representation
in the House of Commons, some of the University Conservatives

raised the question -- Was it right that Cambridge should send
as its representatives men whose first business it was to be

politicians ? They agreed among themselves that one of the
two representatives ought to be directly concerned in the teach

ing or in the management of the University ; better still, if

practicable, both. Professor Stokes was approached privately.
Agreeing heartily in the principle laid down, and encouraged
by the thought that his predecessor Sir Isaac Newton had held
the position now offered to him, he set himself with characteristic

simplicity and thoroughness to the one primary question, Could

he fully perform all the duties of his Professorship if he undertook
this new duty ? It was with him much more than a question of

trains, and beds, and hours. That side of the question was of
grave importance to a man of his age and habits, and, it is
unnecessary to say, it was worked out and proved with a minute
ness of detail which was a lesson for life to the younger mind
of the intermediary. But would the physical labour and hurry
unfit him for guiding the intellects of the very flower of the
mathematical students of the University ? His physical endurance
was remarkable. The idea of hurry no one ever associated with
his calm demeanour. And he could always sleep, placidly and
soundly, whatever was going on. He said yes.

     His course as Representative was one of careful sacrifice of

personal comfort, and unceasing watchfulness to see whether any
part of any question before the House touched the interests of the

University itself or of the graduates as a whole. There is no
doubt that he keenly enjoyed the position, laborious as he made
it by his journeys to and fro by night and day. He did not add
to the strain by making speeches. " No man," it was well said of
him, " has been silent on so many platforms." He eventually
retired, on grounds which every one could understand and appre
ciate, namely, the labour of the double position for a man of his

106 APPRECIATION BY THE BISHOP OF BRISTOL

age, and the feeling that someone else should have the opportunity
of enjoying the honour. But there is no harm in saying, now,
that there was another reason. On a question which was sure to
come to the front, a question of deep interest to the majority
of the graduates, though not touching the University itself or the

Colleges, he had made up his mind, after much thought, that if

he voted he must vote against the view of the majority, and that
he could not conscientiously abstain from voting. That was the
culminating reason for his retirement from a position which has
become greatly stronger because he has held it. The other
Universities of the kingdom have not been slow to follow the
example of Cambridge. On his retirement, it may be added,
Cambridge set another excellent example. The Conservatives
offered the position to one who was known as a University
Liberal, Dr R. C. Jebb, the Regius Professor of Greek, who had
assured the same intermediary that on three points of policy,
which alone were mentioned to him, his views were in general

accord with theirs. It is greatly to be regretted that the death

of Sir Richard Jebb has prevented the fulfilment of his promise to
write an appreciation of his distinguished predecessor in the
representation of the University.

     As a member of the University of Cambridge Commission,

1877 -- 1881, Professor Stokes took on all questions the side of

moderate reform, with emphasis on the " moderate " rather than
on the "reform." That remark does not mean more than this,
that while he required strong evidence in favour of reform as
contrasted with modification, moderation was with him a funda

mental demand. In the arrangement of Professorial stipends,

he constantly urged that while a " modest provision " should be
made for the maintenance of a " modest household," there should

be no stipend large enough in itself to form the attraction for
candidature. The honour of holding such a position should be

the primary attraction. In common with other Commissioners

he looked with a longing and hopeless eye to the system of the
Scottish Universities, where large pensions for retired Professors
are a charge upon the national funds. That the Colleges should
make some direct contribution to the income of the University he
readily allowed. But he maintained that a grave depression of
agricultural prospects had set in, and that those of the Colleges
which depend chiefly upon laud and tithe, and not on house

                CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY COMMISSION          107

aproperty, all, that but two or three, would become less able to
make contribution without hampering their own work. This was
                       ?
one of the chief controversies which divided a generally harmonious
                   if
                       it a it is,Commission. The contention waxed rather than waned. It was

                                          adecided that all Colleges must pay an annual contribution, increas

ing each five years, assessed upon their income, but that the

agricultural depression might go further than     had gone, and
                                               it
power should therefore be given to the Chancellor of the Uniit

versity to stop for a period the quinquennial increment (£5000)
of the College contributions. The final fight was on the question,

should the ultimate maximum of the contribution be £25,000 or

£30,000 Professor Stokes was determined that £25,000 was
te say the least -- as much as could be borne by the Colleges, and

that some of the Colleges would be seriously injured by the

necessity of paying their quota towards that amount. The chair
man of the Commission, Sir Alexander Cock burn, had ceased for

some time to attend the meetings of the Commission, feeling out

of harmony with its proposals. Professor Stokes took part in
   representation to him, through one of the Secretaries, that at

the next meeting would be decided whether £25,000 or £30,000
should be the limit, and that his vote would settle one way or

the other. This was put to him by the Secretary as a piece of

business information, not as a request for his attendance or for his

support of the smaller sum. Sir Alexander said that he would

certainly attend, and made a very frank utterance as to his vote.
That was on a Friday or Saturday. The meeting was on the
following Tuesday. Sir Alexander died suddenly on the inter

vening Sunday, and the ultimate contribution of the Colleges

stands at £30,000 year.
     As regards the Statutes of the Colleges, Professor Stokes, who

took very little part as rule in the detailed discussion of various

points, always became vocal when questions affecting the tenure

of the offices of Tutor and Dean and Chaplain were under con

sideration. There was a regular iteration of such epithets as

parental, kindly, genial, firm, and -- oftener than all -- tactful. It

was clear that  could have been put into a Statute he would
have had an enactment of this kind --" when once you have got
a tactful Tutor, don't think of superannuation " and he would
                                               ;

have given a very short shrift to an untactful person in that

position. He did all he could to add to the status and importance

108 APPRECIATION BY THE BISHOP OF BRISTOL

of the office of Chaplain and the disciplinary office of Dean. He

thought that the offices should be combined, and that a special

appointment of a specially suitable man should be made, not
Ifof necessity a man fully up to the Fellowship standard.
                                                           such

a man filled the office well, he held that he had done great

service to the best interests of the College, a service which

deserved recognition by election to a Fellowship. The religious

interests of the young men stood very high in Professor Stokes's

estimate of the duties of a place of higher and highest education.

    A large experience of Professor Stokes as a member of the

Council of the Senate, as also of many Syndicates and other

administrative bodies, has left a general impression of the presence

of lucid simplicity and the absence of subtlety. As it used to be

a matter of weekly interest to note the different ways in which

Dr Westcott and Dr Lightfoot, sitting next each other, would

deal with a subject, so it was with Professor Stokes and Professor

Cay ley. Both alike were accustomed to let the ordinary business

of the Council or other body take its course without their inter

vention. They were very unsuspicious of concealed purposes in

the management of affairs. When Professor Stokes had to take

part in something which called for his intervention, he would

make a remark which -- as new-comers naturally said --any one

might have made. The listener respectfully supposed that it

came from profound depths and was moulded into the very

simplest form by an intellect of unusual power. Still, thoughts
and words alike were free --it may be more true to say were
freed --from all appearance of difficulty. He seldom joined in

the general discussion of a question, unless it was one which

belonged specially to his own sphere of work. He never played

the useful part of one who helps others to decide against a view

by the manner in which he maintains it. When he expressed an

opinion, he spoke with a gravity of manner which shewed his

sense of the responsibility of expressing an opinion. But he
usually listened and was silent till the time came to vote. Then

it was seen how highly sensitive the balance of his mind was.
A chairman had often to wait for his vote, and more frequently

than with other men to record him as not voting. One seemed

to see a testing instrument of the finest delicacy under careful

experiment. A grain more, or a grain less, he could vote yes, or

no ; failing the grain, neither.

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS  109

     Professor Stokes's abstraction of mind and manner gave the
impression of a mind formed into compartments, varying greatly
in size, with no intercommunication. But no matter which com

partment he might have in use at the time, all was orderly, kindly,
reverent, charming, loveable. Much there was to enjoy in the
present; much, of general impression, there is to enjoy in the
retrospect ; comparatively little that has stamped itself in minute
detail on the memory. For among the many compartments of his

mind, there was not a compartment which supplied incisive speech
or epigram. There was a compartment of genial humour; and
when that compartment was open and in use, there was a smile
on the face, and a playfulness of gesture with the hand, and a
laugh in the voice, which no one will forget.

     His demeanour towards religious services, religious questions,
religious things, was itself religious. He took special interest in
the difficulties of sceptics. In the later years of his life he noted
two facts of observation. The one was, that the doctrine of an

endless eternity of punishment by torture was a moving cause
of sceptical objections against Christianity as a whole ; the other,
that neither he nor such of his acquaintance as had entered upon
the subject with him accepted the doctrine as part of the faith
delivered to the saints. He took pains to press the second of
these observed facts upon the class of persons concerned in the
first. The result was a series of letters, artlessly written at odd

times as occasion served ; written conversationally, without copies
of former letters, and thus with much repetition. They were

published in 1897 (James Nisbet and Co.) under the title of
Conditional Immortality.

     Sir George Stokes, as he had then become, set out with the
principle that the " natural immortality " of the soul was a dogma
taken from Platonism, and that the combination with it of the
Scriptural revelation of the " finality of the perdition of the lost "
had created the doctrine of " endless torments." By " natural
immortality " is meant, of course, that every soul must go on for
ever, that no soul can come to an end. Equally of course, the

question raises no doubt of the existence of the soul after the
death of the body ; it is concerned only with the eternity of such
existence. While he freely used illustrations drawn from physical

science, he was very clear against drawing argument from the

physical to the spiritual. To one who put an argument for the

110 APPRECIATION BY THE BISHOP OF BRISTOL

immortality of the soul from the physical law of the conservation

of energy, he replied in words of a directness that Dr Temple

might have used, -- " I do not think there is anything at all in

it " ; and he proceeded to give interesting reasons for his opinion.

Indeed he went further than this, and would accept neither

physical nor metaphysical arguments for the survival of the soul,
in place of the revelation made by the Son of God.

      Dealing with the soul as separate from the body, his scheme
was as follows. The Scriptural account of the creation and fall
of man is a guide to the truth. Man's soul was intended to
be immortal, the immortality depending upon the condition of
obedience. Man's will violated the condition of obedience, and

so man's soul lost the offer of immortality. Not that the souls
of men from Adam to Christ did not live after the death of the

body, but they would not continue to exist eternally. The death

of Christ -- he was clear against curious examination into the
mystery of the Atonement -- restored to the soul of man not

immortality but the offer of immortality. One of his favourite
                   " Life in  Christ " -- no other
phrases     was    The wages  of sin is death, the  revealed eternity of
existence.                                          gift of God is eternal
                "

life through Jesus Christ our Lord." We must understand that

he attached vast importance to the preaching to the spirits in

prison.
     He confessed that of the large number of those who had told

him that they did not hold the doctrine of " endless torments,"

the majority believed that all souls would eventually be saved.
For himself, he felt it to be much more difficult to make that

view accord with the statements of Scripture than the view which

he himself held, that at the end -- the words are his own --they
that have done evil will come forth unto a resurrection of judg

ment ; they will be consumed like tares burnt up in the fire ;

consigned to a second death from which there is no resurrection.
He told with evident pleasure that a Cambridge friend, to whom
he had stated his scheme, remarked to him afterwards that
" reading the Bible with that idea in the head is like turning

a key in an oiled lock."

    It is clear that in this scheme there is room for endless specu

lation as to the condition and treatment of the soul between the
death of the body and the final judgment. With such speculation

he would seem to have had no sympathy. Purgatorial flames

                THEOLOGICAL VIEWS                               111

were as far from his conceptions as were endless torments, if we

may judge by his silence. As relating to this point, evidently

one of very great importance, a passage may be quoted in con

clusion from one of his letters, without criticism or comment.
   " What does St John say of conformity to Christ ? ' We know
" that when He shall appear we shall be like Him, for we shall
I"see Him as He is.'
                      have long thought that this revelation

"would be the means of causing the character of each man to
" take its final set for good or for evil. Just as in this life the

"preaching of the Gospel may be a savour of life unto life or
" a savour of death unto death, so the revelation of the last day
" may produce these opposite sets in the character, and the direc-
" tion that the set will take may be determined by the character
" that has been formed during the state of probation. On those
"in whom the set will be for good the gift of eternal life in its
"
"  final inalienable possession  will  be bestowed. As to those in
   whom it will be for evil,           general teaching of Scripture
                                 the
"is, I think, that they will be destroyed like tares burnt up
"in the fire."

   BIOGRAPHICAL AND SCIENTIFIC EVENTS.

1841.  Senior Wrangler; first Smith's Prizeman.          1857 ;

1849.  Fellowship at Pembroke ; vacated on marriage,     Wilde
1851.      re-elected under new statute, 1862.

1852.  Lucasian Professor of Mathematics.
1854.
1856.  Fellow of the Royal Society.
       Manchester Lit. and Phil. Soc., Hon. Member :
1864.
           Medal, 1897.
1867.
1869.  Rumford Medal of the Royal Society.
1871.  Elected Secretary to the Royal Society.
1873.  Haidinger Medal of Imperial Vienna Academy.
1877.  Rotterdam, Bataafsch Genootschap, Correspondent.
       Hon. F.R.S., Edinburgh.

       Royal Academy of Gottingen, Correspondent.
       Royal Society of Sciences of Upsala, Member.
       President of the British Association at Exeter.
       Hon. LL.D., Edinburgh.
       Royal Irish Academy, Hon. Member.

       Gauss Medal of the Academy of Gottingen.

112 BIOGRAPHICAL AND SCIENTIFIC EVENTS

1878.  Societe Francaise de Physique, Member.
1879.
       Royal Prussian Order Pour le Mérite.
       Academie des Sciences de l'lnstitut de France, Corre-

1880.      spondent succeeding Angstrom.               Foreign
1882.  Ophthalmological Society, Hon. Member.
       Imperial Academy of Vienna, Foreign Associate.
1883.  Royal Academy of Gottingen, Associate.
       Madras Harbour Commission.

       National Academy of Sciences, Washington,

                  Associate.

1883 to 1885. Burnett Lecturer, University of Aberdeen.
1885 to 1890. President of the Royal Society.
1886. Royal Institution, Actonian Prize. LL.D., Aberdeen.
1887 to 1891. M.P. for Cambridge University.
1887. Philosophical Society of Glasgow, Hon. Member.
1888. Munich Academy of Sciences, Foreign Member.

           R. Accademia dei Lincei, Rome, Foreign Member.
1889. Baronet of the United Kingdom.

            American Philosophical Society, Member.
1891 to 1893. Gifford Lecturer, University of Edinburgh.
1892. Royal Berlin Academy of Sciences, Corresponding Member.

           Institution of Civil Engineers, Hon. Member.
1893. Copley Medal of the Royal Society.

           University College, London, Life Governor.
1896. Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna, Foreign Hon.

                  Member.

1897. Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow, Foreign
                  Member.

1899. On the occasion of the celebration of his Jubilee by the
                University of Cambridge he received
                      The Arago Medal of the French Academy, struck

                            only on special occasions,
                    The Portrait Commemoration Medal struck in Gold

                            by the University of Cambridge,
                      Royal Academy of Belgium, Diploma of Associate

                            Member,

1900.      and congratulatory addresses from scientific bodies in
                 all parts of the world.

       Elected one of the (8) foreign members of the French
           Academy of Sciences, in succession to Weierstrass.

                  DIPLOMAS AND GENEALOGY                                  113

1900.  Royal Academy of Turin, Foreign Member.
1901.
1902.  Royal Academy of Belgium, Associate.
       The Helmholtz Medal, Royal Academy of Sciences, Berlin.
1904.  Elected Master of Pembroke College, Cambridge.
       Societa Italiana delle Scienze, Foreign Member (one of 12).
       Doctor of Mathematics of the University of Christiania, on

           the occasion of the centenary of Abel's birth.
       Bronze memorial medallion placed in Westminster Abbey.

In addition the following may be noted :

     Member of the Governing Body and ex officio Fellow of
           Eton College.

     Member of the Board of Visitors of Greenwich Observatory
           for 44 years.

     Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire, Hon. Member.
     President of the Victoria Institute, London.

       Received Honorary Degrees from the Universities of

           Oxford (D.C.L.), Edinburgh (LL.D), Glasgow (LL.D),
           Aberdeen (LL.D.), Dublin (LL.D), Victoria (Sc.D.),
           Cambridge (Sc.D, LL.D), Christiania (Math.D).

                           GENEALOGY.

          John Stokes
                     I Dublin

         Gabriel Stokes m. Elizabeth King
Surveyor,Gen. Ireland

             b. 1682

Rev. John Stokes  m. Hannah Boswell        Bev. John Haughton m. Sarah Hughes
S.T.P. of T.C.D.                                            (Hoghton)

       1716-1782                                  Rector of Kilrea

          Bev. Gabriel Stokes              m.  Elizabeth Haughton
                 Rector of Skreen, Sligo                       (Hoghton)
                              1762-1834

                  Sir George Gabriel Stokes

                               1819-1903

S. b. I.

                SECTION II.

           GENERAL SCIENTIFIC CAREER.

    It has been thought that but slight advantage would arise

from attempting any connected description of Sir George Stokes'
scientific work. The published collection of his Mathematical and
Physical Papers in five volumes, taken in connexion with the
historical analyses by Lord Rayleigh, Lord Kelvin, and others,
forms ample material for the mathematician or physicist ; while an
account, to be interesting to the general reader, would have to be
too long. Moreover in his Burnett Lectures on Light, and the
other scientific addresses mentioned in the Preface to Vol. v. of
his Papers, he has himself gone over much of the ground of his
researches, in a manner which forms a model for popular and at the
same time accurate exposition.

     His scientific relation to the times in which he lived comes out

most clearly in his correspondence. It has been felt to be in

advisable to break up the longer series of scientific letters; but
some of the shorter groups, and those illustrating the events of
his life, are here set forth in order of time, without any attempt
at making up a continuous narrative.

    A main impression derived from a general survey of his public

activity, as revealed by the many thousands of letters that exist, is
the state of dependence upon him which was the normal condition,
as regards scientific investigations, of most of the numerous Com
mittees of which he was a member. Other persons find it hard to
make progress with their own problems : and this liability to be
come the chronic receptacle for all the unsolved difficulties which
had been encountered by public committees, while they proceeded
on their way, may well have induced the habits of silent medita
tion, as well as the reluctance to tackle new extensive undertakings,

which have been noticed in the preceding section. It has been

remarked that Prof. Stokes' normal course when a scientific
difficulty arose was silence, while others talked round the subject,

           METHODS OF WORKING                                      115

to which he had been contributing nothing: but at the next
meeting, when his colleagues may have forgotten all about
he would be ready with a considered plan for advancing the
problem by definite modes of attack.
           is
                                                                                     a
                                                                                            it,
     To the period soon after taking his degree belong series of
letters relating to physical science, of a didactic or tutorial
character, written in fluent Italian in 1841, to the Marchese di

Spineto, who mentioned in Todhunter's edition of Whewell's
Correspondence as an active resident in Cambridge about ten

years before.

   It has been remarked that Prof. Stokes to some extent

resembled Gauss, in recasting and polishing his researches before

publication, so as to present a logically-connected whole, leaving

perhaps little trace of the process of discovery. In at least one

case, documents exist revealing the thorough way in which he

could become absorbed in problem which attracted while
                            a                   it,
                                            a      a
baffled him. Early in 1848 Prof. Baden Powell, of Oxford, com    it

municated to him a new phenomenon of interference which had

arrested his attention, and which proved to be a case of Fox

Talbot's bands, formed, however, by fluid prism in which the

retarding plate was immersed. This was the origin of memoir*,

in which Stokes took up the theory of these bands, condensing

and elucidating the explanation of the phenomenon that had been

already partially given by Airy. This memoir, as published, was

divided into Sections and II. The letters which follow are taken
           I
                    f.

                                  a
from correspondence relating to second part of               containing
Sections III, iv, and V, which had been offered to the Royal Society

through Prof. Baden Powell

The correspondence with Prof. Powell on the whole subject

had been arranged and fastened together, apparently at the time,

and reveals the manner in which the theory expanded in Prof.
   it
Stokes' hands. When ultimately Prof. Powell rather complained
        '
of the embarras de richesses,' the idea of writing a separate paper

seems to have originated.

The explanation regarding the inadequacy of the then famous

     * Phil. Trans., May 25, 1848; Math, and Phys. Papers, ii. pp. 14-- 35.

        This paper remains in the Arohives of the Boyal Society but brief abstract
(reprinted here) appeared at the time in the Phil. Mag. and in Royal Society
Abstracts, Vol. vi.
t                                              ;
                                                          a

                                                             8--2

116 CONICAL REFRACTION NOT PECULIAR TO FRESNEL'S THEORY

prediction of conical refraction, to serve by itself as a guarantee

of the validity of Fresnel's wave-surface, which is also printed

infra as written out for the benefit of Prof. Stokes' critics, did not
see the light until 1862, when it was incorporated in somewhat
different terms in the " Report on Double Refraction " *. The

argument has gained in interest, as since that time the existence

of a fine dark line (Poggendorff in the middle of the section of
   is
            a

                                                        's)

                                                                   it

                                                                                                     is

                                                                                     it
the refracted cone of light has been detected by careful focussing.

It this fine line that marks the path of the ray which spread

out into cone and so enfeebled in intensity;                                                        therefore repre

sents the real conical refraction, while the bright cone around

arises from ordinary refraction of rays adjacent to this critical onef.

This subject occurred only incidentally in Prof. Stokes' manu

script, as a reason supporting the urgency of further exact tests

of the form of the wave-surface, for which he then proposed

the use of Talbot's bands formed by thin plates of the crystal.

The more searching method of prismatic refraction had been pro

posed by him already in 1846, and reprinted in the 'Report' in

1862 as well known, has been carried out very thoroughly
      ;
                                                                                                    Remarks similar to the
               is

                                    it

                                                      §,

                                                                                                %,
by himself and other experimenters

above apply to the other proposals made in this memoir for the

utilisation of Talbot's bands namely that they would have been

convenient at that time for rapid handling, but would hardly be

thought of for exact measurement now that experimental resources

are so much improved.

      The problem of this memoir which, according to the letters

infra, gave Prof. Stokes most trouble, was the explanation of

a  group of monochromatic bands, seen near the edge of the field

of an approximately achromatised prism-pair, and changing colour

with movement of the eye. He concluded that they must arise

from diffraction and he readily saw that the narrowness of one of
      :
Jt   * See Math, and Phys. Papers, iv. p. 184.                                                      it
        For detailed discussion of the dynamics of the subject and the influence onI.
   §
of magnetic excitement cf. Larmor, Proc. hand. Math. Soc., 1893, pp. 273 -- 90, and6.
especially Voigt, Ann. der Phys. 1905 --

         Cf. Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. iv. (1872), p. 336. The details of the
experimental investigation by Prof. Stokes, of which this brief abstract alone was

ever published, exist substantially complete in manuscript, and are being prepared
for press by Mr Olazebrook.

        Cf. Introduction to Part of the Memoir, Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. u.

p. 15.

                    MONOCHROMATIC DIFFRACTION BANDS                                    117

the prisms used, a mere facet on a plate, served as a slit restrict
ing the beam of light. The explanation, which he calls obvious
in the letter, came when he recognised that, for each direction of
vision, light in the neighbourhood of a definite wave-length is
completely achromatised over a considerable range by the prism-
pair; and in fact the phenomenon is an example, perhaps the
earliest explicit one, of what are now well known as achromatised
diffraction-bands. This explanation introduced the consideration
of the curve of dispersion of the prism-pair, in which dispersion is

plotted against wave-length. Possibly he was thence led directly
to the brilliantly simple explanation of Fraunhofer's empirical rule
for the best achromatisation of an astronomical double object-
glass*, in which the true principles for improving chromatic
correction, since followed up with well-known success at Jena and
elsewhere, were laid down.

     The unilateral character of Talbot's bands depends on the
circumstance that it is the intensities, not the amplitudes, of the
bands of adjacent colours that must be superposed. The matter
has recently become much simpler, in general terms almost intui
tive, through the happy introduction by Prof. Schusterf of Stokes'
principle of recurring groups of disturbance, arising from con
comitant and nearly homogeneous undulations, as a graphical
substitute for the somewhat complex abstract calculations of the

memoir.

[From Royal Society Abstracts, Vol. v. pp. 795 -- 6, Jan. 25, 1849.]
     Supplement to a paper " On the Theory of certain Bands

seen in the Spectrum." By G. G. Stokes, Esq., M.A., Fellow of
Pembroke College, Cambridge. Communicated by the Rev.
Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S.

The principal object of the author in this communication is to

point out some practical applications of the interference bands

recently discovered by Professor Powell, the theory of which was

considered by the author in the paper to which the present is a

supplement. The bauds seem specially adapted to the determina

tion of the dispersion in media which cannot be procured in sufficient

purity to exhibit the fixed lines of the spectrum. The ordinary

* " On the Achromatism of a Doable Object-Glass," Brit. Assoc. 1855, Math, and
Phys. Papers, Vol. iv. p. 64 ; " On the Principles of the Chemical Correction of
                                                                            344 --54.
tObject-Olasses,"   Ptoho. t1o9g0ra4p;hi"c   Society, 1873, loc.  cit. pp.
                                            Theory of Optics,"    § 186.
        Phil. Mag.

 118 APPLICATIONS OF TALBOT'S DIFFRACTION BANDS

 experiments of interference allow of the determination of refractive
 indices with great precision ; but in attempting to determine in
this way the dispersion of the retarding plate employed, there is
the want of a definite object to observe in connection with the

different parts of the spectrum. In Professor Powell's experiment,

the wire of the telescope, placed in coincidence with one of the
fixed lines of the spectrum previously to the insertion of the
retarding plate into the fluid, marks the place of the fixed line,
and so affords a definite object to observe, when the retarding
plate is inserted into the fluid and the spectrum is consequently
traversed by bands of interference.

      The practical applications considered by the author are princi

pally four. In the first, the variation of the refractive index of

the plate in passing from one fixed line to another is determined,
the absolute refractive index for some one fixed line being sup
posed accurately known. The observation consists in counting
the number of bands seen between two fixed lines of the spectrum,
the fractions of a band-interval at the two extremities being

measured or estimated.

     In the second application, the absolute refractive index of the

plate is determined for some one fixed line of the spectrum. The
observation consists in counting the number of bands which move
across the wire of the telescope, previously placed in coincidence
with the fixed line in question, when the plate is inclined to the
incident light.

      The third application is to the determination of the change in
the refractive index of the fluid, for any fixed line of the spectrum,
produced by a change in the temperature. The observation con
sists in counting the number of bands which move across the wire
of the telescope while the temperature sinks from one observed
value to another, the temperature being noted by means of a
delicate thermometer which remains in the fluid. For this observa

tion a knowledge of the refractive index of the retarding plate is
not required.

     The fourth application is to the determination of the change
of velocity of the light corresponding to any fixed line of the
spectrum, when the direction of the refracted wave changes with
reference to certain fixed lines in the plate, which is here supposed
to belong to a doubly refracting crystal. The observation consists
in counting the bands as they pass the wire when the plate is

MONOCHROMATIC DIFFRACTION BANDS  119

inclined. It requires that the plate should be mounted on a
graduated instrument. It would be possible in this way to deter

mine, by observation alone, the wave surface belonging to each
fixed line of the spectrum.

      While considering the theory of Professor Powell's bands, the
author was led to perceive the explanation of certain bands,
described by Professor Powell, which are seen in the secondary
spectrum formed by two prisms which produce a partial achro
matism. Although the account of these bands has been published
many years, they do not seem hitherto to have attracted attention.

It is easily shown by common optics that when two colours are

united by means of two prisms, the deviation, regarded as a
function of the refractive index, the angle of incidence being given,
is a maximum or minimum for some intermediate colour. For

the latter colour, two portions of light of consecutive degrees of
refrangibility come out parallel; and therefore the diffraction
bands belonging to different kinds of light, of very nearly the
same refrangibility with the one in question, are superposed in
such a manner that the dark and bright bands respectively coin
cide. Thus distinct bands are visible in the secondary spectrum ;
although none would be seen in the spectrum formed by a single
prism, in consequence of the mixture of the bright and dark bands
belonging to different kinds of light of nearly the same degree of
refrangibility. The diffraction bands here spoken of are of very
sensible breadth, in consequence of the small width of the aperture
employed in the actual experiment.

     When a spectrum is viewed through a narrow slit half covered
by a plate of mica, the edge of which bisects the slit longi
tudinally and is held parallel to the fixed lines of the spectrum,
the bands described by Sir David Brewster are seen, provided the
mica plate lie at the side at which the blue end of the spectrum is
seen, and provided the thickness of the plate and the breadth of
the slit lie within certain limits. When these bands are invisible

in consequence of the slit being too narrow, or the spectrum too
broad, it follows from theory that the bands ought to appear when
the slit and plate are turned round the axis of the eye, so that the
edge of the plate is no longer parallel to the fixed lines of the
spectrum. The author has verified this conclusion by experiment,
employing plates adapted to observations with the naked eye,
which are best suited to the purpose.

120 VALUE OF UNTRIED SUGGESTIONS FOR EXPERIMENT

         To Prof. S. H. CHRISTIE, Sec. R.S.

                       Pembroke College, Cambridge,

My dear Sir,           March 15th, 1849.

         ISome days ago heard from Prof. Powell in a general

way the wishes of the Council of the R.S. with respect to my
Ipaper.
         immediately wrote to Prof. Powell explaining my views

on the subject, which you have perhaps learned before this.

   I could not but feel in writing my paper that some of the

experimental methods proposed might be practically impossible,

in consequence of some unforeseen difficulty attending the actual

Iworking out of the experiment, and one or two were obviously at
least very laborious.  sent, however, my paper as it stands to

Prof. Powell, requesting him at the same time to strike out without

hesitation whatever he thought not likely to be really useful. As

Ihe was used to experiments thought that he would be a better
Ijudge in the matter than could be. Prof. Powell, however, let

everything stand, most probably objecting, from a feeling of deli

cacy towards me, to strike out anything he could not absolutely

pronounce to be impracticable.

   I fully enter into the feeling of the Council that it is objection

able in general to publish an account of proposed experimental

methods which have not been actually tried, and on this very

ground I had great misgivings about sending my paper at all.

Judging, however, from the apparently fortuitous manner in which

the several applications occurred to me, while my attention was

strongly directed to the subject in consequence of Prof. Powell's

letters, from the apparent ease of some of the experiments, and

from the accuracy of the results to which they seemed likely to
Ilead, so far as I was competent to judge,
                                            ventured, with the

I Iencouragement of Prof. Powell, to submit my paper to the RS. At

the same time must confess that had exceeded all due bounds,

both in details and in proposing one or two experiments which

from their difficulty are not likely ever to be carried out.

   IAfter what have said it is almost needless to observe that

I am quite ready to remodel, and materially curtail my paper. I

should propose to strike out all experiments in which an angular

motion of the plate is required, as well as much of the detail of

Ithe others. The only part which would retain at full is my

EFFECT ON TALBOT'S BANDS OF ROTATING THE PLATE 121

explanation of the bands seen with a pair of achromatising prisms.

The explanation, to be sure, when once suggested, is almost

Iridiculously simple, but it cost me a good deal of thought before

struck into the right road. It is strange that the phenomenon

should have been before the public for about ten years without
Ihaving hitherto attracted attention.
                                       would also retain at full
Ithe account of an experiment which have tried, and described

near the end of my paper*.
As to conical refraction, I think the referees must have mis
taken my meaning. I should be obliged by your forwarding to
Ithem the accompanying explanation.
                                       make this request, not
Iwith any view to publication, for think the passage in question

may well be struck out, as not being of much importance, but

merely for the sake of my own character; for I should be sorry

to be thought guilty of so gross a blunder as to suppose the
conical refraction either was seen in fact, or ought to be seen

according to theory, in any direction indifferently within a biaxal

crystal.

   IShould you conceive my proposal to meet the views of the

Council, would be glad to receive back my paper in order to

remodel it.

     As you will probably have to communicate to the Council my

willingness to remodel my paper, may I request you at the same

Itime to make my apology for the nature of the paper sent ?
                      I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,

                                       G. G. STOKES.

     March 16th, 1849. Explanation of a passage relating to
Conical Refraction in the supplement to a paper " On the theory
of certain bands seen in the spectrum."

Everybody who has studied the undulatory theory of light

allows, and must allow, that the singular phenomenon of conical

refraction is a most striking verification of the general correctness

of the form of the surface which Fresnel conceived to be the wave-

surface. For my own part nothing gave me so much confidence

in the general correctness of the wave-surface as actually witness
Iing the phenomenon.
                      regard the phenomenon as an absolute

     * The effect of placing the plate and slit with their edges oblique to the
direction of the dispersion.

122 POSSIBILITIES AS REGARDS CONICAL REFRACTION

proof that the true wave-surface, whatever it may be, does actually

turn itself, so to speak, inside out in the neighbourhood of four
Ifpoints.
             we enquire in what way such a turning inside out

is geometrically possible, we shall see that it may take place either

in a sort of double curve, or in a sort of double funnel, or in a sort

of double funnel with a cusp edge. The second supposition must
be rejected because it would then be possible (at least in direc
tions lying within certain limits) to draw four tangent planes,
parallel to one another, or rather four such planes in the positive

direction, and as many more in the negative, which would require a

quadruple refraction. The third supposition must also be rejected

because then there would not even be an approach towards such a

phenomenon as external conical refraction (and observation shows
that there must be at least such an approach), not to speak of the

complexity and bizarrerie of the law which must connect the

wave-velocity with the direction, in order to render such a form of

wave-surface possible. We are thus, without making any sup

position as to the accuracy of Fresnel's wave-surface, driven to

Ithe first supposition, which necessitates the existence of external
conical refraction.  do not of course mean to say that Fresnel's
Iwave-surface may not be exact; all that say is that it seems to me

to be unphilosophical to infer its exactness, or even near approach

to exactness, from the observed existence of external conical

refraction.                                           Suppose the

     Let us turn now to internal conical refraction.

true wave-surface not to be touched by a tangent plane along
a circle, or even a plane curve of any kind, but only to be very
nearly so touched. Then a curve of double curvature may be
traced on the wave-surface, which shall be very nearly a circle, and
such that the tangent planes at its different points shall be all but

coincident.

     Conceive now the plane waves within the crystal, and then
the plane incident waves corresponding to them. Since the refrac
tion of a wave from one medium into another depends on nothing
but the wave-velocities, it is evident that the directions of the

incident waves must be all but coincident. Passing now from

waves to rays, we see that the incident rays necessary to form the

refracting cone, corresponding to the curve considered, form a cone

of such an exceedingly small vertical angle as to be experimentally
inseparable from a ray ; that is to say, the smallest pencil we can

NOT PECULIAR TO FRESNEL'S WAVE-SURFACE  123

actually employ will contain all the rays necessary to form the

entire refracted cone. Consequently if the wave surface be

touched nearly, though not exactly, in a plane curve, we shall still
have internal conical refraction, so far as experiment can decide.

    Nevertheless if we consider the way in which it is geometri
cally possible for the wave-surface to fall over, so to speak, we may

see without much difficulty that the non-existence of quadruple
refraction renders it necessary for the wave-surface to be touched
along its tangent plane along a plane curve ; though whether that
curve be or be not a circle cannot of course be made out by such

general reasoning.

    It follows, I think, from the preceding considerations, that the

mere existence of the very remarkable phenomena of conical and
cylindrical refraction is no great evidence of the exactness of
Fresnel's wave-surface. The evidence of exactness which is fur

nished by these phenomena depends, as seems to me, on the near
coincidence of the diameter of the ring, and the direction in which

it is seen, with the results calculated from theory, by means of
numerical values of the three optical constants of the medium
obtained quite independently, and on the agreement of the form
of the ring and the mode of its polarization with the results
predicted by theory. But surely, from the very nature of the
observations, the test is not sufficiently searching to warrant us in
concluding that Fresnel's wave-surface is exact for each colour in

particular.
     There is yet another conceivable mode of passage, which is

by something like a pair of opposite cones in which the vertex has
been replaced by a short ridge, so that instead of a point of union
between the opposite sheets there is a line of union. But by
considering the geometry of such a figure it might be shown that
the supposition would require a certain wave-velocity to be equal
to zero, which is absurd.

Dear Sir,  Feb. 20th, 1850.

         I fully appreciate the force of the objection to the

printing of my paper, arising from its being in a great measure

Idevoted to the mere suggestion of experiments. As far as can

conjecture from the tone of your letter, the Committee have no
wish that the paper should appear, only they think it might

124 WITHDRAWAL OF A PAPER

IIpossibly appear if remodelled. For my own part should, think,

rather prefer that my name should not appear in connection with

a paper having so little to recommend it. It might do very well

as a piece of a long investigation, but is not of sufficient dignity

Ito be presented alone, especially when in so doing go out of my

usual course, which is to present my investigations to the Camb.

Phil. Soc. I think under the circumstances the wishes of all

Iparties would be best consulted by allowing the matter to drop.

I sincerely regret the trouble have already caused, both to you

and to the members of the Committee.

   IOf course am ready to abide by my former offer if the Com
Imittee really wish it ; but that, if conjecture aright, is not the

case. Should my present suggestion meet the views of the Com

mittee, I shall consider myself at liberty to send my explanation

of the bands seen with a pair of achromatising prisms to the
editors of the Phil. Mag., or to communicate it to the British

Association.

    With regard to the chromatic variation of (/*' -- fi)/\ which it is
suggested ought to be fi '/\, I may be permitted to remark that my

method is to determine $he chromatic variation of fi'/X by com
bining the plate to be examined with a known fluid, or at least

one of which the refractive index can be determined at the time

\of the experiment. Thus ft will be known from observations of
the usual kind,  is known from Fraunhofer's very accurate

determinations, and therefore the chromatic variation of ft/\ will
be known; and as the chromatic variation of (ft'-ft)/\ is de
termined from the bands, that of ft'/X follows.

     The following letter from Prof. R. Willis has been taken
from documents relating to Prof. Stokes' well-known memoir,
" Discussion of a Differential Equation relating to the Breaking of
Railway Bridges under travelling loads *."

Dear Stokes,     Parker's Piece, July 81, 1849.

I find that in practice the values of /3 are much greater
Ithan those which you have supposed.
                                      have just returned from

inspecting a bridge of 70 feet span, the statical deflection of which

* Camb. Phil. Trans. 1849 : Math, and Phyi. Papers, Vol. II. pp. 178--220.

              GIRDER DEFLECTED BY TRAVELLING LOAD               125

with the greatest load was only -215 inch, and taking the velocity
Iat 50 feet per second, y9 if mistake not would be nearly = 200.
ItIn our experiments /9 = 8, and thereabouts.
                                               would therefore

greatly improve the practical value of your paper if the curve

were calculated for a few values of £ greater than unity, and half
the number of points would be quite sufficient. You have taken

50 in the length ; 25 at most would enable the curve to be shown.

    If you are too tired of the subject to undertake this, which I
Ifear is the case, will request you to show me the short way to do

it ; as it is clear that all the practical cases belong to values of yS

greater than the fractional ones which you have chosen, and pro

bably, as you have stated, with such large values of /3 your
solutions would agree very nearly with the results, notwithstanding

the neglect of the inertia of the bars.
I Iam just starting for Salisbury, where shall spend the next
Iweek.
        should have told you that in the case of the bridge,

70 feet span, the engine and tender produced a deflection of

0 215 inch when placed at rest over the middle of the bridge,

but when a velocity of 55 feet per second was given to the engine

we obtained a deflection of 0 245 inch, that   an increase of
                                            it

                                                is,

                                                       I
upon the statical deflection. The rails were slightly curved
it |
   I

                iIf
                              I
upwards, which probably diminished the increase of deflection.

My attention has just been directed to a paper in the

Engineers' Journal of last September upon this subject.         send

to you, but   mistake not you will find full of erroneous

conclusions.

am much interested with the papers you showed me in the

Mathematical Journal.

                                 remain, Yours most truly,

                                              R. WILLIS.

     The following letters show that the project of a sea-levelit
canal across the Isthmus of Panama was already to the fore in
1852, and that the scientific problems connected with had been
carefully considered. The results here given with regard to tidal
currents in such a canal have become again of special interest, in
connection with the findings of the International Commission of
Engineers which recently reported to the American Government.

126 TIDAL CURRENTS IN A PANAMA CANAL

To LIONEL GISBORNE, Esq.

                     Pembroke College, Cambridge,

                                                                  March 30th, 1852.

Sir, -- My friend Mr Griffith wrote to me two or three days

ago requesting my consideration of a question which you had

proposed to him ; namely, what would be the greatest velocity in a

ship canal connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, the section

of the canal being as in the figure, the length 30 miles, and the

height of the tides 25 feet at the Pacific side, and only 3 feet at

the Atlantic side ?

   I have considered the problem to a certain extent, but find it

would be very difficult to obtain a solution pretending to much

Iexactness. The thing would not hope be too difficult to master,

but it would require more time ; and as Mr Griffith informs me
Ithat you sail on the 2nd of next month think it best to inform
Iyou at once of the results which have arrived at.
IIn the first place
                     regarded the motion as a purely tidal

phenomenon, neglecting altogether the resistance of the bed of the
current. On this supposition it came out, taking a very rough

solution, that the greatest velocity would be almost 10J miles an
hour. With a velocity which, were it not for friction, might
attain such a magnitude as this, it is plain that friction and the

resistance of the bed, &c., must be of the utmost importance. The

phase of high water would take almost lh 15m to travel the

length of the canal, and this time is but small compared with the

tidal period, 12h 20m nearly. Hence it is far more nearly exact

to regard the canal as a river, in which the velocity is determined

by a certain slope, namely, the difference of elevations at the two

extremities, distributed over the whole length, than to regard

it as a frictionless channel connecting two oceans. In the present
case, supposing the times of high water the same at the two ends, --

which would not, it is true, be exact, but which is not of much

consequence on account of the smallness of the tide at the Atlantic
side, -- the slope may amount to ^ (25 --3) or 11 feet in 30 miles.
Making a calculation accordingly, and introducing a certain correc

Ition which cannot well explain here, I found for the greatest

velocity about 4£ miles an hour. This result was obtained by
taking into account the resistance of the bed, and not considering

the inertia of the water. It would no doubt be sensibly modified

          DUE TO THE HIGH TIDES AT THE PACIFIC END            127

Iby inertia, though am still strongly inclined to think that it is
Inot very far from the mark.
                                  think it probable that the effect of

inertia would be still further to reduce the velocity found above,

perhaps to 3 miles an hour.

     My conclusions therefore are,

    (1) It is not safe at present to take the greatest velocity at

less than about 4£ miles an hour.

    (2) It is however probable that if the problem were solved

complete the greatest velocity would be found to be less, perhaps

3 miles an hour.

   If(3) it should be seriously proposed to carry the plan into

effect, leaving the ends of the canal open, the velocity of the water

ought to be made the subject of a very careful mathematical

investigation.

                    From Mr GISBORNE.

                                  41, Craven Street, Strand,

                                  13 Sept. 1852.

The enclosed note will explain to you why your letter to

Mr Griffith (who is in Germany) was opened and not answered to
Ithe address you give.
                                  enclose you the letter you were good
Ienough to write to me before left for South America, which

contains your results as to the velocity in a suppositious case of
Ia ship canal.
                    trust to be able to enclose you a copy of my
Ireport with this, if not shall do so to-morrow. The cross-section
I recommend is as over --the length 30 miles, with the tide in the

Pacific rising and falling 1 1 £ feet above and below the Atlantic,

where the total difference between high and low water is only

about 16 inches. In spring tides the difference of level may
sometimes be 15 feet, and if you look into the question perhaps it

would be interesting to find the velocity in that case also. As

my report it        for the present, only for private circulation, please

consider       is,
                as confidential.

                    From Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

                                  32, Harley Street,

Dear Sir,                              Nov.      7,  1852.

          I  am much obliged by your fine specimen of " Canary "

glass, and shall try the spirit-lamp experiment forthwith.

128 SIR JOHN HERSCHEL ON FLUORESCENCE

I am sorry my report on your paper was not shown to you, as
Ithere were some things in it I wished you to see*.
                                                     must con

gratulate you on the singularly fertile field of photological

research you have opened out and in which you are advancing

with such rapid paces. The extension of the spectrum upwards is

very extraordinary as a physical fact, though not an unexpected

result a priori.  Yours very truly,

                  J. F. W. HERSCHEL.

    It will be of interest to reprint the condensed abstracts of
Sir John Herschel's papers on phenomena of fluorescence, as given

in Royal Society Abstracts, Vol. v. pp. 547 and 549.

                                                Feb. 13, 1845.

The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, President, in the Chair.

'AfiopQcoTa, No. 1. " On a case of Superficial Colour presented
by a Homogeneous Liquid internally colourless." By Sir John
Frederick William Herschel, Bart., F.R.S., &c.

The author observed that a solution of sulphate of quinine in

tartaric acid, largely diluted, although perfectly transparent and
colourless when held between the eye and the light, or a white
         liygehtt,eaxnhibexittsreimn ecleyrtvaivinidaaspnedctbse, aauntdifuul ncdeeler scteiarltabilnueinccoildoeunr,c--es
object,
of the

apparently resulting from the action of the strata which the light
first penetrates on entering the liquid, and which, if not strictly
superficial, at least exert their peculiar power of analysing the
incident rays, and dispersing those producing the observed tint,
only through a very small depth within the medium. The thinnest
film of the liquid seems quite as effective in producing this super
ficial colour as a considerable thickness.

    * In his report, which contains a detailed discussion of the subject, Sir J.

Herschel "considers this paper to be one of the most remarkable and important
contributions to physical optics which have appeared for a long time." There is

a postscript to the report as follows : " Perhaps I may be allowed to mention that

in my experiments on snlphate of quinine which formed the basis of my papers on

epipolic dispersion, I was led up to the very threshold of Mr Stokes' discovery by
the following facts, which I find recorded under the date Feb. 25, 1845, with two

special Nota Bene't attached :--viz. that on transmitting through various liquids
the light incident on the quiniferous solution, the epipolic blue gleam was quite

extinguished when the incident light had passed through spirit of turpentine

having a very slight yellowish tinge, though if passed through water purposely
rendered a little more yellow the gleam was produced."

            HISTORY OF FLUORESCENCE                                                                                    129

                                                   April 3, 1845.

'Afiop^cora, No. 2. " On the Epipolic Dispersion of Light ;
                     atoHaompoagpeenr eeounstitleLdiqu' iOdninatecransaellyofcoSlouuprelersfisc.'ial"
being a Supplement
Colour presented by
By Sir John Frederick William Herschel, Bart., F.R.S., &c.
The author inquires whether the peculiar coloured dispersion
of white light, intromitted into a solution of sulphate of quinine, is
the result of an analysis of the incident light into two distinct
species, or merely of a simple subdivision analogous to that which
takes place in partial reflexion as exemplified in the colours of
thin plates. He endeavours to ascertain the laws which regulate
this singular mode of dispersion, which for brevity he terms
epipolic on account of the proximity of            of dispersion
the intromitting surface of the fluid.   the seat   have been                                                            to
                                                                                                                       ex
                                         It might
pected that by passing the same incident beam successively
through many such dispersive surfaces, the whole of the blue rays
is
                                    a

                                                       it,

                                                                                                         :

                                                                     of

                                                                                                        is
would at length be separated from        and an orange or red
residual beam be left: but the author establishes, by numerous
experiments, the general fact, that an epipolical beam
                                                            light,
meaning thereby a beam which has been once transmitted through
a quiniferous solution and undergone its dispersing action,
incapable of farther undergoing epipolic dispersion.
There were only two liquids, out of all those examined by the
author, namely oil of turpentine and pyroxylic spirit, which, when
interposed in the incident beam, act like the solutions of quinine
in preventing the formation of the blue film and the only solid,
in which the author discovered a similar power of epipolic disper
sion, the green fluor of Alston Moor, and which by this action
exhibits at its surface fine deep blue colour.

It appears from the Abstract of Prof. Stokes' memoir, re
printed in Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. Ill, that Sir D. Brewster

J.had observed the phenomenon some years previous to Sir

Herschel*.

     The general account of fluorescence given by its discoverer atp.
one of the public lectures at the Meeting of the British Associa
tion at Belfast in 1852 has already been referred to (supra, 10).

In further illustration of the great impression made at the time

by this discovery, an extract from a speech reviewing the work of
the Association, made at the concluding meeting by Dr Romney

Robinson, the President of the Royal Irish Academy, may here be

added.

     " Of the communications brought before Section A, most
certainly that of Professor Stokes, which the public has heard

* For later correspondence with Prof. E. Wiedemann on fluorescence, see infra.

    S. b.
I.
                                                                                                                    9

130 PROPOSED LECTURE IN PARIS

here in a more popular form, holds the highest place, from the
Isingular light which it has thrown on that class of phenomena
first  brought   into notice    by  Herschel and    Brewster.                   consider
that   this may  be termed    the   third epoch in  the history
                                                                             of light --
the first, being that in which Newton discovered the decom
Iposition of the solar ray by

discovery of the polarisation
                                    omfealingshtofbythMe aplurissm--  ; the  second, the
                                                                      and    regard this

as not inferior in importance to the other two. Already does it
open to the eye that views its development a course of which we
can scarcely contemplate the end, and which is not more promising
in its theoretical results than it is in the host of practical applica
tions of which it is susceptible."

     The following letter from the Abbé Moigno probably relates
to some proposal for a similar lecture to be delivered in Paris.

                 From M. L'ABBÉ MOIGNO.

Mon cher Me Stokes,                                 3 juillet, lundi, 1854.

       J' accepterais sans répugnance, s'il fallait s'y résigner,

de faire toute notre belle série d'expériences dans une séance

particulière de la Section de Physique; mais il me semble qu'il

vaudrait mille fois mieux en faire l'objet d'une séance générale du

soir; et je vous conjure instamment de nous faire atteindre ce

but. L'objection, qu'il faut que dans les séances publiques tout

soit expliqué en français, serait levée par un moyen bien simple.

Vous, Monsieur, qui occupez dans l'optique un rang si eminent,

chargez-vous d'être notre interprète, et faites vous-même cette

grande et magnifique leçon. Je préparerai tout, avec M. Duboscq,

je rédigerai les programmes, je vous donnerai tous les détails

nécessaires, et le soir venu je m'effacerai complètement en me

cachant derrière vous. Nous avons tant amélioré nos expériences

depuis votre passage à Paris, que vous pouvez compter sur un

succès grandiose et complet.

               From SIR W. ROWAN HAMILTON.

                                                         Observatory, near Dublin.

                                                                               December \7th, 1857.

     My dear Stokes,

            IBy an evening postman received a short time ago

your interesting and welcome letter, and have treated myself

             HISTORY OF BESSELIAN EXPANSIONS                                                  131

(as you see) to a large ruled sheet, for the purpose of comfortably
replying to it : but shall not expect you to reply on a scale by

Iany means so large. In fact, had been wishing to write to you,
Ifor some time past, but chose to wait till should hear of your

present address.

   I trust that you received, through Dr Robinson, a private copy of
Imy last printed paper : in formula (26) of which, forget whether
I marked with a pen the correction of a slight erratum, by inserting

the factor 2 before V207T, under the numerator sin 86° 49' 52".

IA glance at the second line of that formula will prove that

this mistranscript, for have too great confidence in the Red

Lion Court Office to call it a misprint, has not at all affected the

results.

    A second copy of your own important Paper, " On the

Numerical Calculation of a Class of Definite Integrals and

IInfinite Series" (Cambridge, 1850), reached me by post nearly

a month ago, and was much obliged thereby. A former copy

had been kindly sent by you, but at the time I was so much
Ioccupied with other things, that although did run my eye over

I iIt,  could only remember the existence of that Note, (in page 20 of

the private copies,) wherein you were pleased to acknowledge that

had previously published, in my Essay on Fluctuating Functions,

an expression equivalent to that which you have numbered (52)*,

and have obtained by quite different method. The first copy
went astray in very good company, can assure you but trust
             ;a

                 it, I

                         I
                              I

                                                                   ;

                                      I
                                                                                           ;
                                             II
that will yet turn up and now that have the second, will
I
try to keep firm hold of it.   regretted that could not venture
        it
to print any reference to      from memory but may hope that

shall have some opportunity soon. Meanwhile, as regards its

relations to my recent paper,  seems that there has been only
             I

                             it

                                    (I

                                         Ia
                                                                                                                                       ;
an affinity, and that have not any anticipation to acknowledge

for my own late investigations had  think) different aim.

Just to prove that, since the duplicate arrived, have read some

parts of with care, let me remark that in lately applying a
[*

         it
method of my own to verify your series (62) for the function (57)

          The asymptotic expansion for the Bessel functions of order zero. Math, and;
Phys. Papers, Vol. n. p. 352. The differential equations to which his method

applies were generalised so as to include all of this type in the Supplement to the
Memoir on Discontinuity, Trans. Camb. Phil. Soc, 1868 Math, and Phys. Papers,
Vol. iv. p. 285, see footnotes pp. 289, 298, 80.]

                                                                                                     9--2

132 ASYMPTOTIC SOLUTIONS OF DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS

of your Third Example, or rather (for my own satisfaction) to

Ideduce that series anew, was led to the expression,

v = bx*    1       [m+i]2m[0]-m(-2x)-mcos(Ax       + c--~* )I,             (a)

          m=    0

where b and c are constants, as giving the law of the descending

series for the integral v of the differential equation (58) of your
Paper, which may be written thus,

                       (D1-x-1D + l)v = 0.                                 (b)
Comparing (a) with (62), I next write,

                v = bx^ [Rcos(x + c) + Ssin(x + c)},                       (c)
                                                                           (d)
and have

m = oo
R= 2 [2m + i]4,n[0]-8",(-4^)-m,
ffm =0
                                             m=oc  +2[0]-1TM+1>(-4;c8)-m.
      S = (-2x)~i 2 [2m +
                   m=0

If then we write

                1.2(8a;)'T1.2.3.4(8a;)4

                        1.8* 1.2. S(8xf                                    w

the expression (a) gives, generally,
(- if (- - - (/)rm = 4)'" [m +
                   = l)m (2m + 1) (2m              1) . . . (3  2m),

and therefore,

+ r2m = (4m + l)(4m- l)(4m- 3)...
- - - - -and
                         5 . 3 . 1 . 1 . 3 ... (5 4m) (3        4m),
-- r.zm+1 = (4m + 3) (4m + 1) (4m 1) . . .
                                                                                (<7>
                        - -5 . 3. 1 . 1 ... (3 -4m)(l 4m),)

each being thus given as the product of an even number of
regularly decreasing odd numbers.

For instance,

r,= 5.3.1.-l;r4 = 9.7.5.3.1.-1.-3-5,                            fee.]
-r, = 3.1;         -r-2 = 7.5.3.1.-l.-3, &c.                               W
                                                                     j

Ithese numbers (as had the satisfaction to observe) agreeing with
those of your formula (60), but the law having been independently

                GENERALISED BESSELIAN EQUATIONS                                                                                         133

deduced, through the expression (a), which is included in the
following, for the integral * of the differential equation

                                (D>-aar1D + l)v = 0,                                                            (i)

v = bxt 2 »i+9 [0]-m(-2a;)-mcos(a; + c --J. (j)

     Now, as regards some recent results, which appear to be
thought my own, by you and De Morgan, and by some of my
mathematical friends in Dublin. About the integral

                                                Jo

I am glad that you do not take me as having laid any stress

      for think
upon  it,                       very likely that               it                     has been somewhere

              ;                                                    £

          I
                 I

                            it
                                     it
published and, as you remark, the investigation of its value                                                                                 is

very easy. What wanted                                         for, in my paper, was chiefly to

make sure of the rigorous transformation,

                - -(Itft =) j'ftdt = Itft =) = j'ftdt;
                                                           (i

and thereby to confirm, by arithmetical experiment, the propriety
of the partly periodical and semiconvergent development (belong

ing to great class treated of in your paper, and elsewhere), of
which have as yet published only the first terms, but am in
possession of the law, for the approximate calculation of the
t
    is                                                                                    ftdt), when

      Ia
                                      I

                                                                                                                                     {
                                                                                                                     /

                                                       I
numerical value of the lately mentioned integral

      real, positive, and large. Perhaps may be disposed to write
down something more about the series last alluded to; but shall
pass on now to the 4th page of this sheet, leaving the few lines
below, for a sort of Note to be filled in.

* do not know whether this form (/') for the integral of                                  has been published,
I                                                                                         (i)
                                                                                                            is
               it
                             a
but probably has occurred to you. The series terminates, when a an even

whole number. As verification, since

                                                                                 n9m

                                [m+cr=[n a-1

(j) shows that  satisfy (t), satisfies also
                if
                                                           2)z-1J) + l)ir-',-1i; =    0,
                     v

                                     it

                                                        +
                                        (D2+(o                                                                                          (k)
whatever constant a may be.

134 calculation of repeated besselian integrals

                                   Note.

INot to delay posting this letter too long,                            Dec. 19/57.

Imention here, that                                                    shall merely

                               formed a table of constant coefficients,

connected by a sufficiently simple law, for the developments

of the successive integrals,

                        [j"dtjft, (/» A-

as far as                          (j»*

under forms analogous to that which Poisson suggested, and you

Iand worked out, for the integral ft itself. A fundamental
equation, which assisted me in this and in other similar researches,
           T Ifbe thus stated : "
may

           vn =                                                        - (w-m),r)
           if           [a]"*      m u«-TM cos                                                                                                         (I)

and                           c
while a and                                                bn,

                                                                       ;

                                                               l

                                                           (x

                                                                          +
                                                                                     c

                                                                                                                                                    ;
                        TOn, m = "n, m--          "n--i, m>                                                                                            \m)
                                                                                                                                                       (n)
                        are constant then

                                   Dvn = vn-i."

Although, in the arithmetical aspect of my little paper, the

definite integral from zero to infinity, Jo &c. = served chiefly
(as has been owned) to connect the two parts of that integral,
                                it it                                  I
&c, and                                                                     £,
                                     is                                   I
                                                                                aI
                                        I                                            I
                                                                    I
I                       &c.; yet   long ago struck me (while pursuing

some physical researches which never brought to the point of(1

publication, but which+ of /       not quite impossible that may, at

some time or other, resume, sufficiently at least to give an in

telligible account of their general character and aim), as remark

able thing, that the constant              should here be precisely the
                                   of
                                                                       the symbol (or It), in
                                            £

                                                    of
coefficient             the first negative power

the descending development that finite (but irrational) algebraical

function                4/2)-^, or rather here, (4/2 + 1)~^, to which had

been led to reduce the summation                  the known ascending series
                                   I

                                             of
for the definite integral ft.              thought that saw reasons for

                  FORWARD PROPAGATION OF A WAVE-FRONT                              135

this being not an accidental thing; and was encouraged by that
thought, to make long ago some very laborious numerical calcula
tions, whereof some have been reproduced, with extensions of
accuracy, -- see, for instance, the formula (26)"', for

                                         ·2I
                                     f'2
                        7t_1 Jo da> sec w sin (40 cos w),
                  3
                  = + 772 428 770 670 800, 537 7058

                   -3 772 428 770 679 799, 974 8177

                                  = 0,562 888       1,
                                          +

which believe to be correct in its last figure. And long agoI
verified suspicion which soon arose, (in part suggested by
physical anticipation,)* that the succeeding symbolical terms, of thea
                                                           I
                                                                I

                                                                              a
descending development of (4i"2 + l)~2 had all (so far as ex
amined, and went a good way in doing so) useful relations to the
                  ft I
numeiical values of Inft, or of                     dt) ft, when was a large
                       it                    (          t
                                                 I
                              is
number. But                       only lately (since the last Dublin Meeting of

the British Association), that the thought of calculating the values

of dt) occurred to me. For two very general and very
I
           I
               I
recent Theorems respecting such multiple or repeated integrals,;
   refer you to another sheet which has been begun but close the

present sheet by saying that, with regards to Mrs Stokes,

                                  I       remain, very faithfully yours,

Professor George G. Stokes.                         WM R. HAMILTON.

It* was partly connected with Theory of Darkness (Scotology), which at one
                                          a
                                             (it

                                                           A

                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                              ./

                                                                                       (I I
time interested me. Using finite differences, instead of partial differentials,

wanted to understand how an extensive but finite vibration could be propagated
sensibly forward, and not at the same time sensibly backward. And was led

think as early as 1835) to perceive that this must depend on the approximate
equality of two definite integrals, as regarded their numerical values, say and B,

which produced sensible light by their sutn, + B, but sensible darkness by their
A-B.difference,
                  This expectation           was more than a guess) led gradually to the

discovery of abstract relations between certain formulas of definite integration.

136 INTEREST EXCITED IN FLUORESCENCE

Letters from the PRINCE OF SALM-HORSTMAR.

                                          COESFELD, NEAR MONSTER, IN PRUSSIA.

                                                                                                         1856.

IPardon me, if take the liberty to trouble you with a request.

Your experiments on the fluorescence have so highly excited
my interest, that I cannot omit applying to you for help, inas
Imuch, that beg you to send me a glass dyed yellow by means of
Isilver-oxyd, as
                  found it impossible to get such a glass in

Germany. At the same time you would greatly oblige me by

letting me know the address, where this glass is to be got in

England.

          Respectfully yours,

                      PRINCE OF SALM-HORSTMAR.

                                                                                                             October 27, 1856.[?]

    I Ibeg your pardon, Sir, for my tardy answer, however too         I

Iwas absent from home several times.      it

    itI am most obliged to you for the specimen of the fluorescenta

           ifsubstance from Mr Schunck and all your very interesting com
munications, and especially for the trouble you took in occasioning
                   Ithe yellow glasses to be sent to me by Mr Darker, which got
of late to my great satisfaction.

     Let me say in answer to the doubt you express with reference
to the explanation of one of the results in my papers on fluores
cence: that the ethereal solution of the green colouring matter
of the true infusion (Euclena viridis) has not been kept in the
perfect dark, but that the light to which was exposed was but
very little. As the volatilization was already completed in a few
days, would be very striking that the light should have been
the cause of disappearance, the more so as the green colouring
does not discolour so quickly besides. However, delusion might
be possible, the substance should have expanded very thinly in
the test-tube, therefore will repeat the experiment.

         am very glad that your observations on the direction of the
emission of the fluorescent light from solutions do correspond with
my own later observations.

     With many thanks for all your trouble and kindness.

                                                                                                24 March, 1857.

        send you hereby bill of exchange for £2. Is. 3d for London,
which sum Mr Darker did put erroneously in your account --for
the yellow glasses which have received in the last year.
I

                                       a

                          I

FRAXIN AND PAVIIN  137

    IFurther I send you a crystallised substance, to which have

given the name of Fraxin, having discovered it in the bark of

fraxinus excelsior. A diluted solution of it in warm water or

spirit, containing any trace of lime or another alkali, will

produce a blue fluorescence in the day-light, and a yellow fluores

cence in a box of cobalt-glass. A solution in spirit of wine will

prove good for a longer space of time.
      An extract of the same bark in cold alcohol gives a red fluores

cence, particularly striking if the light be concentrated by a

burning-glass. The substance producing this red light is a yellow
fluid substance, which is precipitated by adding cold water to the

Iextract (concentrated).
         have found out that the red fluorescence from the solution
of Aesculatin in sulphite of ammonia, saturated with baryta, is

originated or better said produced by the green part of the
spectrum,-- which is remarkable.

                                                                                 12 Juni, 1857.

     Ich danke Ihnen sehr für Ihren brief vom öten Mai den ich
nach rückkehr von einer reise erhielt. -- Sie haben mich auf meinen

irrthum aufmerksam gemacht in hinsieht der rothen fluorescenz
der geistigen auflösung aus der rinde von Fraxinus, wofür ich
Ihnen sehr dankbar bin, denn die rothe fluorescenz ist nur eine
folge des Chlorophyls. Ich habe diesen irrthum jetzt in Poggen-
dorff 's Annalen berichtigt durch eine nachschrift.

     Ich habe versucht mir Ihr Paviin aus der rinde von Aesc.

Pavia darzustellen, aber es gelang mir nicht genügend, weil der
baum schon in der blüthe war wo die rinde nur sehr wenig Paviin
enthält, so dass ich zu wenig erhielt um zu versuchen ob Paviin

mit verdünnter Schwefelsäure Aesculetin giebt*.
     Ich muss nun warten bis im frühjahr um den versuch zu

wiederholen.

     Ich danke Ihnen auch sehr für die Warnung mich nicht durch
Kobald-glass irre machen zu lassen bei beurtheilung der fluores
cenz, und für Ihre bemerkung dass daher die von mir beobachtete

     * See Math, and Phyt. Papert, Vol. iv. p. 112 (1859), and p. 119 (1860), in which

fraxin is identified with paviin, in two communications to the Chemical Society of

London. In a letter of date April 21, 1857, Prof. Stokes' correspondent had given

I Ihis reasons for identifying fraxin with aesculin instead of paviin. This letter ends

with the question " May ask you whether on further occasion may write to you
in German, with Latin letters?"

138 POLARIZATION OF DIFFRACTED LIGHT

gelbe fluorescenz der fraxin-auflösung eine optische täuschung
ist wegen der neigung des auges die complementare farbe zu

sehen --oder die wirkung des contrastes. -- Ich habe ein mittel

gefunden dieses direct zu beweisen, dadurch dass man in ein
gelbes glas ein kleines loch macht um das auge gegen das blaue
licht des Kobaltglas Kasten's zu schützen. Ich wünsche dass Sie
meinen irrthum wegen der gelben fluorescenz des fraxins im
blauen licht in Poggendorff 's Annalen berichtigen.

      Ich bitte Sie mir zu sagen was Sie sagen zu der beobachtung
von Holtzmann in Poggendorff Annal. von 1856, p. 446, wonach

das polarisirte licht in der polarisationsebene schwingen soll ?--

Professor Beer in Bonn schreibt mir darüber, dass die grossen
Abweichungen von den theoretischen werthen und der vollständige
Widerspruch mit den resultaten Ihrer versuche -- auf einer oder
der anderen seite eine fehlerquelle voraussetze welche erst aufge
funden werden muss, um sagen zu können ob die Versuche
Holtzmann's etwas über die grundvorstellung von der lage der
schwingungen hier entscheiden. -- Ich hoffe Sie werden die versuche
von Holtzmann mit einem russgitter selbst anstellen und Ihre
resultate dann bekannt machen.

      Darker hat mir den empfang der zahlung angezeigt.

                     Mit vieler achtung Ihr ergebener

                                                      FÜRST ZU SALM.

                              15 Februar 1860.

Geehrtester Herr Professor !

              Ich danke Ihnen vielmal für Ihre antwort vom S1*" februar
deren inhalt mich sehr erfreut hat. Ich habe die mir gütigst
geschickte probe (die mit der gelben farbe) gleich auf der stelle
chemisch geprüft und gefunden, -- dass ihr aus Aesculus-hypo-
castanum-rinde dargestelltes Paviin in der that Fraxin ist, denn

es gibt gleiche reactionen mit eisenchlorid, mit barium oxydhydrat
und strontium-carbonat und, was die hauptsache ist, es wird durch
verdünntes acidum sulphuricum in der wärme von 80° Rre in
Fraxetin verwandelt in 6 minuten -- welches ich Ihnen hierbei

schicke. Zum vergleichen lege ich auch eine probe von meinem
aus Fraxin dargestellten Fraxetin hier bei. Ihre entdeckung
auf optischem weg ist sehr interessant weil Sie die identität

beider substanzen gleich richtig voraus geschlossen haben und

CHEMICAL ANALYSIS BY FLUORESCENCE           139

dieser schluss Sie zu der chemischen darstellung aus der rinde

von Aesc. hypocastanum geführt --wo es die chemiker als solches

nicht vor Ihnen erkannt haben. Die wissenschaft ist Ihnen also

vielen dank schuldig und die chemie wird jezt die fluorescenz
immer mehr gebrauchen lernen müssen. -- Sie haben aber der

chemie eine methode gelehrt diesen stoff vom Aesculin zu
scheiden, und ich bin Ihnen sehr dankbar für die mir gemachte
Mittheilung der methode und die lezte spur von blei lässt sich
sehr leicht durch Schwefel-Wasserstoff entfernen aus dem Paviin,

oder Fraxin, weil Kohlensaures blei etwas löslich ist.

     Sie werden finden, dass die beiden hier überschickten proben
des Fraxetin, in ihrer aufiösung in Wasser was eine spur von Kalk
enthält, ganz gleiche optische eigenschaften haben, so wie ihre
chemischen reactionen gegen eisenchlorid, baryt und strontium
ganz übereinstimmen mit dem was ich in Poggendorffs Annalen
über fraxetin mitgetheilt habe. Beide proben sind in wasser ein
mal umkrystallisirt nach dem Waschen. Ich hatte keinen grösseren

vorrath mehr :--desgleichen von einer probe fraxetin welches vor
einem Jahr in gesättigtem Alkohol krystallisirt ist und aus
Eschen- Rind efinxia durch verdünntes Acidum sulphuricum

dargestellt.
     Ich bin Ihnen sehr vielen dank schuldig für die mir geschickten

beiden druckschriften über die darstellung des Paviins und über
die methoden mit hülfe der fluorescenz dergleichen Körper auch in
gefärbten flüssigkeitenauch dann zu finden wenn zwei verschieden-
fluorescirende Körper gemengt darin enthalten sind.

Geehrtester Herr Professor,  9 Maerz 1860.

              Ich danke Ihnen verbindlichst für Ihren brief und die

darin enthaltenen sehr interessanten mittheilungen.
     Ich erlaube mir eine frage über einen gegenstand betreffend

die fluorescenz-erzeugenden strahlen der Sonne. Ich wünsche zu
wissen ob Sie bei keinem fluorescenz-Spectrum das verschwinden
einer Fraunhoferschen linie gefunden haben ?-- Würde auch nur
eine solche linie verschwinden; --so würde daraus folgen dass
licht in der dunkeln linie des Sonnenspectrum's enthalten ist. Man
findet zwar im photographirten Spectrum vom Müller, dass nach
einer bestrahlung von 15 See. dauer, viele Fraunhofersche linien
verschwinden, aber ich glaube dass die ursache nicht innerhalb der

140 kirchhoff's experiments on absorption

Fraunhoferschen linien zu suchen ist, sondern ausserhalb, indem

die in der empfindlichen chemischen Substanz durch die chem
ischen strahlen inducirte chemische bewegung der Zersetzung,

sich nach verlauf von 15 See. auch ihre chemische bewegung

mittheilen kann den atomen gleicher substanz welche sich im
dunkeln raum der Fraunhoferschen Linien befinden. Mich in-
teressirt diese frage um so mehr, weil Kirchhoff (in dem Monats
berichte der Berliner Akademie der Wissenschaften vom October

und September) aus den beiden Linien D von Fraunhofer, ver
glichen mit den entsprechenden hellen Linien im Spectrum einer
Kochsalz-flamme, durch seine versuche den schluss zieht, dass Soda

in der Atmosphäre der Sonne ist. Es fragt sich aber ob wir
eine fluorescente Substanz haben, welche von den Strahlen des

Sonnenspectrums neben D afficirt werden und ob D dunkel bleibt,
und ob ferner die hellen Linien D im Spectrum der Kochsalz-flamme

eine fluorescenz erregen oder nicht, denn wenn sie eine dunkle
linie geben auf dem passenden fluorescirenden Stoff und die linien
D des spectrum's der Sonne gleiche negative reaction zeigen
mittelst der fluorescenz, so würde dieses günstig sein für Kirch

hoff. Mir scheint es wenigstens nothwendig zu seyn, erst direct
nachzuweisen, dass im dunkeln raum der linien D ein auf das

Auge oder auf eine fluorescirende substanz wirksames Agens
sich befindet. Kirchhoff hat zwar bewiesen dass die hellen linien
D im Kochsalzspectrum als dunkle linien erscheinen, wenn das

Sonnenspectrum durch eine Kochsalzflamme geht, und dass sie
alsdann noch schwärzer erscheinen als die im Sonnenspectrum
ohne die flamme. Dieser erklärt Kirchhoff dadurch, dass die

flamme des Kochsalzes die von der Soda in der Sonne ausgehenden
wellenlängen in D, absorbirt oder vernichtet, weil sie von gleicher

wellenlänge sind (in entgegengesezter richtung interferiren).

                             14 Maerz 1860.

Geehrtester Herr Professor!

             Ich theile Ihnen etwas mit was mir Rochleder geant
wortet hat als ich ihm schrieb Ihre mittheilungen über das Paviin
in der rinde der rosskastanie. Sie werden darin eine vollständige
bestätigung der analytischen identität von Paviin und Fraxin
finden. Rochleder antwortet mir, dass er vor mehreren jahren

bei der reinigung des Aesculins einen krystallinischen Körper
gefunden habe welchen Herr Kawalier im laboratorium von

    DISCOVERY OF THE PROLONGED ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRUM 141

Rochleder analysirt hat durch verbrennung; er habe aber bisher
" diese Untersuchung und Analyse noch nicht bekannt gemacht,
weil er bis zur vollendung seiner ganzen arbeit über die substanzen
alle die sich im rosskartanienbaum, von der frucht, rinde, blatter

und blüthen, finden, warten wollte. Er werde aber jetzt in
den nächsten tagen die ganze arbeit der Akademie in Wien
einschicken und mir einen separaten abdruck davon zuschicken."

Sobald ich denselben erhalte, werde ich Ihnen denselben zu
schicken, und kann Ihnen nur einstweilen sagen dass die zahlen
der Analyse ganz mit denen vom fraxin überein zu stimmen
scheinen, denn Rochleder nennt diese substanz geradezu Fraxin in
seinem brief.

      Verzeihen Sie wenn ich Sie mit obiger angelegenheit belästige
indem ich von Ihrer grossen gute gebrauch mache.

                        Mit hoher Achtung, Ihr dankbar ergebener

Geehrtester Herr Professor!  8 August 1860.

                  Ich muss Ihnen das verfahren mittheilen um eine flüs-

sigkeit mit schön grüner fluorescenz zu bereiten. Sie nehmen
Schwefelsäure die durch erhitzen so frei von Wasser gemacht
ist, dass bei dem erhitzen eine glasscheibe nicht mehr mit Wasser-
daempfen beschlägt, und alsdann lässt man die Säure in einer
verkorkten flasche kalt werden. Von dieser Schwefelsäure giessen
Sie etwas in ein probierglas und setzen einige tropfen Ochsen-galle
hinzu und rühren um, so erhalten Sie gleich die schöne grüne
fluorescenz. Es ist nicht nothig dass die galle frisch ist, sie

darf auch schon riechend sein. Diese fluorescenz-flüssigkeit kön

nen Sie nun offen stehen lassen wochen lang ohne verminderung
der fluorescenz.

     Ich glaube dass diese erscheinung Ihnen neu ist, deshalb theile
ich es Ihnen mit.

                                                                                          2 März 1865.

     Ihre höchst wichtige Entdeckung der für den electrischen
Funken specifischen ultra-violetten Wellenlängen, welche die
Länge des Spectrums der Sonne so ungemein weit uebergreifen,
hat mich in die exaltirteste Freude versetzt. -- Welche Freude
müssen Sie empfunden haben als Sie das neue Wunder vor sich
sahen mit Hülfe Ihrer früher entdeckten absorbirenden Medien. --

142 SECRETARY OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY

Es kann also in der Sonne kein electrisches Licht seyn. Oder die
Atmosphäre der Sonne hat nicht die Gase der unsrigen. Oder
die Temperatur der Sonne ist niedriger. -- Schade dass man die
ultra-rothen Wellen nicht auch mit einem solchen Absorbens
naher untersuchen kann. -- Haben Sie das Spectrum des Blitzes
noch nicht im ultra-violetten Sinn geprüft ?--Ob es nicht durch
Luftschichten grosser Dimensionen absorbirt wird ?

     In October, 1854, Prof. Stokes accepted the invitation of the

Royal Society, conveyed through their President, Col. Sabine, to
take up the post of Secretary on the Mathematical and Physical
side, in succession to Samuel Hunter Christie, who had held it
since 1837. The Biological Secretary, Dr W. Sharpey, had taken
office at the previous anniversary, Nov. 30, 1853, and remained
his colleague until 1872, when he was succeeded by Prof. Huxley ;
on the latter becoming President in 1881 his successor was Prof
Michael Foster, who remained Prof. Stokes' collaborator during the
remainder of his service until he was transferred to the office of
President in 1885. During this long period Stokes worked with
the greatest smoothness and good-will with his various colleagues.
Instances are numerous, throughout a voluminous correspondence,
of the cordial understanding that existed, and of the unhesitating
satisfaction of the Royal Society with its good fortune, in retaining
the services of an officer distinguished by so much scientific
renown and by so much zeal and success in forwarding the work
of his fellows.

      The work of the Royal Society had been rendered more
convenient by Prof. Stokes' engagement as Lecturer at the
School of Mines. But when the University of Cambridge was
able to assign some endowment to the Lucasian Chair in 1859, he
felt that it had now a prior call upon his time, and accordingly

he resigned that lectureship. In a letter to his father-in-law,
Dr Robinson, at a later period, he expresses regret that the
responsibility for a family makes it necessary for him to con

tinue to devote his time to the work of the Royal Society, to the
neglect of his own private researches.

     In 1858 he served, at the instance of the Chairman, Lord
Wrottesley, Pres. R.S., as Secretary of the Royal Commission on
the Ordnance Survey.

RESIGNS LECTURESHIP AT SCHOOL OF MINES                  143

My dear Col. Sabine,               October 16th, 1854.

Unless the duties of the Secretary of the Royal
ISociety are much more onerous than I anticipate,
                                                   know of
Ino reason why should not undertake them, in case the Society
Iplease to elect me at the next anniversary. Indeed, should like
very well to hold the office. I shall now be resident in London a

good part of that portion of the year during which the Society

meets ; and as to my lectures here in May, I now give my men but

five days in the week, and by omitting Thursday in place of

Saturday I should be able to go to London for the meetings.

Believe me, Yours very truly,

                                   G. G. STOKES.

                                   Aug. 10, 1859.

My dear Sir Roderick [Murchison],

I have for some time been rather in a state of

suspense as to whether or not to undertake next winter the

,duties of Lecturer at Jermyn Street, Secretary of the Cambridge

University Commission, and Secretary of the Royal Society. It

would be sharp work certainly, but might be managed by putting

,on more pressure ; but there is such a thing as boilers bursting.
I IHowever, it is not a failure of health fear, for have hitherto
I Ibeen strong ; but feel that
I I,execute to my satisfaction.
                      have more work on me than I could
                      thought it might be executed if

managed to get an early hour at Jermyn Street, and made some

Itrials to get one. To a certain extent succeeded ; but pending
the final decision I felt so strongly that I might be taking more
I I,duties on me than could properly fulfil, that came to a sort of

resolution with myself that if there were any hitch in the arrange

Iment about early hours would resign or at least tender my

Iresignation. Yesterday's post brought me a letter which showed

that there was a hitch, and accordingly have executed my inten
Ition by writing to the Lord President of the Council.
                                                        enclose

you a copy of the letter.

    I Ihope you do not think that dislike our School at Jermyn
IStreet, and hold it cheap, because am ready to resign my Lecture

ship there for a Secretaryship which expires on Dec. 31, 1860.

IOn the contrary it is not without many feelings of regret that

144 STRESS OF SCIENTIFIC ENGAGEMENTS

think of leaving you. I have made many friendships which would

I Imake me feel as if belonged to the institution, even if had

ceased to be Lecturer. I have improved myself by having my

attention called to the practical manipulation of instruments, be

Ilonging to branches of Physics to which hitherto I had not paid

much attention. But I own that should like, if I could, to have

more time for original research, from which at present from the

multiplicity of my offices I am almost wholly shut out. I own too
Ithat feel a sort of divided allegiance to the University of Cam

bridge and the School of Mines, being Professor of Mathematics at

Ione place and of Physics at the other, and would rather serve one
master.  told you that legislation was in train at Cambridge

which would have the effect of calling me into residence (suppos

Iing were still alive and well) in the year '66 at the very latest ;
and the University would have the power (and it seems likely

Ithey would exercise it) of instituting the new state of things

earlier. Hence it is only a question whether should resign now

or a few years hence. On the other hand I could not properly,
Ieven if were disposed, resign the Secretaryship of the Com

mission.

   IThe upshot of the whole is this. In the prospect of what
should otherwise have to do next winter I am anxious to be
relieved of my duties at Jermyn Street. But I should be sorry

by unqualified resignation to damage the institution ; as the effect

might be to oblige the appointment to be made in a hurry, and so

to saddle the institution with a man not so good as could have
If Ibeen got had there been more time to look out.
                                                however

cannot be excused by being relieved of my duties next winter,

Iwhich was my object in tendering my resignation at present,

think it but fair that I should be looked on as not having tendered

it,   and left to resign at such future time as see occasion.
                                          I
 I    told you was not afraid of my health failing, but of my
         aI                                  I
                    I

                                      is
having more work than could execute to my satisfaction but
                                                               is
my wife has got a woman's tenderness for her husband's health,        ;

and for that and other reasons very anxious should resign. So

it Ihave given her a carte blanche to plead her own cause, not that
    depends on you except as one whom Lord Granville will probably

consult as to successor.

     The following letter from A. W. Hofmann, then Professor at the
London College of Chemistry, deals with a matter which some

          IMPORTANCE OF RAPID PUBLICATION                 145

times a source of difficulty, namely the delay involved in submitting

scientific memoirs to the judgment of referees, who are often busy

men unable to take the matter up at once.

                           9, Fitzroy Square.

My dear Professor Stokes,                  July 6, 1860.

          II am afraid you will consider me a great bore, but

hope at the same time you will excuse my troubling you once

more in this matter, which is really of great importance for me.

If there are definite rules which prevent you from referring my

paper before the time when the Society meets again, of course
there is an end to the transaction.

   If on the other hand there are no strict rules laid down -- and
Ifrom the form in which you express yourself in your note incline
Itowards this, in my case, pardonable belief --you will hope help

me in this difficulty.
     You know how rapid is the circulation in Chemistry at the

present moment, and how much a paper loses by coming post

factum. The paper contains the result of the last three years'
work, and especially the theoretical conclusions*. Now, say you,

Ithe paper stands over the vacation, it may be that lose six
months of most valuable time. It is true some of the principal

facts are published in the Proceedings, but this just enables

Iothers to build upon those facts the very conclusions at which

arrive. All this inconvenience would disappear if the paper was

just demanded back from the referees, and ordered in case of

recommendation to be put in type. A line from you would

accomplish this miracle.

   If you will be so good as to let me know when you will be
Iin town, would call on you in order to give you additional

explanations.

   I am very sorry to hear what you write about Prof. Kopp's
paperf. If it be finally rejected, the Transactions will lose what at

all times will be considered an ornament.

     Hoping you will excuse this long note,

       I remain, my dear Sir, Yours very sincerely,

                                                     A. W. HOFMANN.

    * In Phil. Trans. 1861, pp. 409-534 are Hofmann's three memoirs, ' Contribu

tions to the History of the Phosphorus Bases,' all communicated on June 21, 1860.

   t ' On the relation between boiling-point and composition in organic com

pounds,' Phil. Trans. 1861, pp. 257-276, communicated by Hofinann.

S. b. I.                                       10

146 PEPYSIAN PORTRAIT OF NEWTON

      The following letters refer to an engraving taken from a
drawing in the Pepysian Collection at Cambridge, which forms
a frontispiece to the Newton-Cotes Correspondence, edited by

J. Edleston, demy 8vo., London, 1850. A portrait by Kneller,

painted in 1689, in which year Sir Isaac Newton was in London
attending the Convention Parliament, the Principia having been
published two years previously, was identified by Dr S. Crompton

in 1866 at the Art Treasures' Exhibition. It belonged to Lord

Portsmouth, and proved to have come into the family by the
marriage of his ancestor Lord Lymington with Newton's niece

Miss Conduitt. It has been engraved by T. O. Barlow. Dr

Crompton considers that the India ink drawing in the Pepysian
Collection is a copy from this picture by an inferior hand, doubtless
made for Pepys. See Proc. Manchester Lit. and Phil. Soc.,

Oct. 1866.

              From PROF. E. DU BOIS-REYMOND.

                                                Berlin, 19 Puttkammerstr.

                                                                                                Nov. 13th, 1858.

     Dear Sir, --In remembrance of the kindness you shewed me

Iduring my stay in England three years ago, now venture to in
Itrude upon you with a request which, however, hope you will

consider as not addressed to you if its fulfilling should cause to

you the least trouble.

    I possess an exceedingly fine engraving of Sir Isaak Newton,

shewing him half-length, in his dressing-gown, at an earlier age
than that at which he usually is represented. The engraved area
is elliptical, 5^ inches long and 4£ inches wide ; under it is to be
seen Newton's autograph,

                                 IS. NEWTON

                               "HYPOTHESES NON FINGO "

and the following inscription in small capitals :

Engraved by T. Outrim from the original drawing in the Pepysian
                                 Collection at Cambridge.

     This engraving was presented to me by the MM. Schlagintweit

Iafter their first journey to England, should think about '51 ; and

PROPOSED REPRODUCTION IN BERLIN                       147

they told me that it was intended as a frontispiece for some hitherto
unpublished papers or letters of Sir Isaak Newton.

      The exquisite beauty of this likeness has so much struck some
of my scientific friends that they ardently wish to have an oppor

Itunity of purchasing copies of it ; and so have been induced to

try to obtain information about the two following points :
     1. Whether it would be possible, for love and money, to

procure some more copies of the above-mentioned engraving;
how this could be managed, and what would be the charge.

      2. Whether, in case copies could not be obtained any more
from the original plate, there would be any legal objection to a
Prussian engraver copying the copy in my possession for the
purpose of selling his imitation.

   I IAs understand you are still a Professor in Cambridge, have

thought there could be no person likely to be better informed
with respect to everything connected with the memory of Newton,
and possessed of greater advantages for procuring any desirable

Iknowledge, than you, and therefore have resolved upon applying

I Ito your kindness.

      need not tell you that should be exceedingly happy if there

should be some opportunity for me to be of any service to you

here.

             Believe me, my dear Sir, Ever yours most truly,

                                            E. DU BOIS-REYMOND.

                    Berlin, 19 Puttkammerstr.

                    October lith, 1859.

My dear Sir,--I will not endeavour to excuse myself from

having deferred so long answering your letter, and thanking you

I Ifor all the trouble you have taken in finding out the engravers of
Newton's portrait.  received your letter when was just be

ginning my course of lectures and found myself unable to attend

Ito anything else, and from that time till now have frequently,

Iand with increasing remorse, thought of writing to you, but have

never mustered leisure enough to do so. Yet what had to tell
you was very short and simple, viz., that if you can, without losing

too much of your invaluable time, have a few impressions (say a

                                               10--2

148 FOREIGN ASSOCIATE OF BERLIN ACADEMY

a-dozen, if more) taken from the plate, you will greatly oblige

several admirers of your illustrious predecessor in the Lucasian
professorship. The plan of having a new plate engraved here
after the copy in my possession has been altogether abandoned.

               Believe me, my dear Sir, Yours very thankfully,

                                           E. DU BOIS-REYMOND.

     The first of the following letters from Prof. Magnus announces
the election of Prof. Stokes as Foreign Associate of the Berlin

Academy.            Berlin.
                         7 April 1859.
    Geehrter Herr,

                  Die Art in welcher Sie die Physik durch Ihre
vortrefflichen Arbeiten im Gebiete der Optik gefördert haben,
hat in meinen Freunden, wie in mir, schon seit längerer Zeit den
Wunsch rege gemacht Sie in engerer Verbindung mit unserer
Academie zu wissen. Es freut mich Ihnen anzeigen zu können,
dass in der soeben stattgehabten Sitzung Ihre Wahl als corre-
spondirendes Mitglied für das Fach der Physik erfolgt ist. Sie
werden in einiger Zeit das Diplom erhalten, ich wollte indess
nicht unterlassen Sie von dem Ergebniss dieser Wahl so bald als
möglich in Kenntniss zu setzen.

            Mit der grössten Hochachtung, Ihr ergebenster,

                    G. MAGNUS.

     Prof. Dove und Prof. Poggendorff tragen mir auf Sie bestens
zu grüssen.

                    Friedrichsrode in Thüringen.

Verehrter Herr,     8 Sept. 1859.

                  Hierbei erlaube ich mir Ihren eine Einladung zu
einer Stiftung zu übersenden, die bestimmt ist den Namen
Alexander von Humboldt's zu ehren, die aber, wie ich hotfe,

zugleich von dem grössten Nutzen für die Naturwissenschaften
überhaupt, und besonders auch für die Physik, werden kann. Ich
bitte Sie sich der Sache anzunehmen, und womöglich dahin zu
wirken dass in England ein Comite sich bilde das Beiträge sam

RELATIONS WITH FARADAY  149

kommt den Talenten aller Nationen zu gut ! Sie würden mich
verbinden wenn Sie die Glite hatten mich gelegentlich zu benach-

richtigen über den Fortgang der Sache in Ihrem Vaterlande. --
Sollten Sie eine grossere Anzahl der gedruckten Einladungen zu
erhalten wünschen, so bitte ich mir gefalligst zu schreiben. In
etwa 8 Tagen bin ich in Berlin zurttck.

                                       Hochachtungsvoll, ergebener,

                                                              G. MAGNUS.

         Correspondence with MICHAEL FARADAY.

      Stokes and Faraday would naturally be congenial spirits.
Their close acquaintance doubtless dates from the years when

Stokes lectured at the School of Mines. It was in preparing for

his lecture at the Royal Institution, " On the Change of Refrangi-
bility of Light and the exhibition thereby of the Chemical Rays,"
in Feb. 1853, that Stokes discovered that the spectrum of the
electric spark was six or eight times as long as the visible spectrum,
whereas in sunlight the higher rays have disappeared by absorption
by the atmosphere. The earlier of the following letters relate to
Faraday's memoir on the colours of finely divided gold*. The
others relate to the well-known incident of the withdrawal by
Faraday of one of his papers submitted to the Royal Society, and
place it in a light creditable to both persons concerned. See
Dr Bence Jones' Life of Faraday, Vol. II. pp. 247-8, from which
the following extract is taken:

     " The experiments which he made on this subject are recorded
in the twenty-fourth series of Experimental Researches received
by the Royal Society, August 1, 1850, on the possible relation
of gravity to electricity. He finishes the paper thus : ' Here end

my trials for the present. The results are negative : they do not
shake my strong feeling of the existence of a relation between

gravity and electricity, though they give no proof that such a
relation exists.' Ten years afterwards he says the same thing,
in the very last paper that he wrote, so constant was he even in

science when he had made up his mind."

     * This subject of the colorations produced by fine metallic particles or thin
films, whether by transmission or selective reflexion, occupied much of Prof. Stokes'
attention. For its present state of development cf. two papers in Phil. Trans,,

1904-5, by Mr J. C. M. Garnett.

150 COLOURS OF FINELY DIVIDED GOLD

                                 Royal Institutiok,

My dear Sir,                     17 June, 1856.

           II am much obliged for your letter. Though    have

a strong impression on the side of the question which admits that

Ifinely divided particles of gold may transmit ruby light, yet as
Isaid I am by no means certain.
                                 mean to work out the point.

Electric explosions of gold wire seem to present an easy way of

settling the question, as they may be made to occur in hydrogen,

I Icarbonic acid, and other gases*; but want to idle for a time, so

shall put your letter with my experimental notes and resume both

together.                  Ever truly yours,

                                 M. FARADAY.

My dear Stokes,                                 6 Dec., 1856.

            Though my paper is very long I must add a little

more. The accompanying comes in at the account of the effect of
Ifheat on gold.
                 you are inclined to look for the connexion, you

will easily find it by the pencil references at beginning and end.

I am going out of town again immediately, but shall return

permanently at the end of next week and then will try to

see you.

                 14, Bellevdb Terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth,

My dear Faraday,                 8 June, 1860.

Ito readf.  I found your paper at the R. S. and took it here

            am nearly sure you asked me to read it and give you
Imy opinion about it.
                       will answer on that supposition.
I own my own opinion is against sending it in for the Transac
tions. It might have done as coming in incidentally, in the body

of a paper containing positive results, but it seems to me it

would hardly do for an independent communication to the Trans
Iactions, a communication
                           mean made at one time, though
forming part of a train of experimental enquiry. If such negative

     * Compare the recent preparation of emulsions of metals by Bredig, by electric

sparking between these metals as terminals under water,

   t See Dr Bence Jones' Life of Faraday, Vol. n. p. 412.

QUESTION OF RELATION OF ELECTRICITY TO GRAVITY 151

results had the effect of correcting a commonly entertained

expectation, or if the author's previous labours had led those who

had followed them to regard a positive result as probable, or even

not unlikely, the case might be different. But to my mind the

antecedent probability of a positive result was too slender to justify

the publication, in such a solemn manner as in the Transactions,

of a negative result.

   I should not myself expect a change in the temperature or

electric state of a body, even if we could transfer it to a place

where gravity was only half what it is at the surface of the earth ;
but even if a change were to be expected under these circum

stances we could hardly expect to render it sensible in merely

passing from the bottom to the top of a tower*. To my mind the

antecedent probability of a positive result is the product of two

(to my mind small) fractions expressing the separate probabilities.

    I write on the supposition that the change to be expected was
a change in the gravitating relations of the experimental mass --

[attributable] to a change for example from a place of strong to a
place of weak gravity -- and not merely to a motion with or in

Iopposition to the force of gravity. Such take to be your view.

    A sentence at the top of p. 2 will require modification. " The

so-called variation of gravitating force by change of distance, can

only be taken into account in either astronomical or cosmical

phenomena ; neither of which can be made the subject of experi

ment." This statement is too absolute, because the change is

taken into account in Cavendish's experiment.
I don't think there would be any objection to the paper's
Iappearing in the Proceedings.  should be glad if you would take

I Ithe opinion of some one else.       go to town.

       remain here till Tuesday, when

                                       Yours very truly,

                                       G. G. STOKES.

                                       Royal Institution,

My dear Stokes,                                11 June, 1860.

I Iam very grateful for your kindness, though had

not ventured to presume on troubling you except by the general

     * Lord Kelvin has stated somewhere that the experiments were made in the
shot tower on the Surrey side of the Thames.

152 WITHDRAWAL OF A PAPER BY FARADAY

Iquestion whether the account was worth appearance in the Pro
ceedings or anywhere else at the R. S.     quite go with you in all

Iyou say, and think that the paper had better be withdrawn
altogether if it can be.                   want no other opinion than yours and

Imy own.
       hope my acknowledgments will catch you at Southsea or at
least follow you to London safely.

                                           Ever your very obliged,

                                           M. FARADAY.

My dear Sir,                               84, Brook St., W.,
                                                     May 5, ....

         Many thanks for your note about the Faraday MS.
I shall be very glad
I                                          after you have read and re-read your
                                      if,  J.
note to Faraday, you can give me some note as to what Faraday
                                                     it
probably wrote to you when he asked for the paper to be returned
                                                            a6
to him.
                                                                   it
   am sorry to give you so much trouble, but there are many

things very characteristic of Faraday in the paper.

                          Believe me, yours most truly,

                                                  BENCE JONES.

My dear Stokes,                            Royal Institution,

                                                          Oct., 1862.

         think so highly of the honor done me by your
         I
              I
                        I
University* that am not willing to omit mention of in the

Royal Society list. Might ask you to instruct Mr White what

to say and where, in the list attached to my name.

I  have recently been named by the King of Italy Knight

of the Order of St Maurice and Lazarus, which as mark of respect
Ifto him and his reasons think ought to go in too.
              it I                                                                            you think

so, will you speak of at the same time.

                                           Ever yours,

                                                 M. FARADAY.

     * Faraday was nominated by the Dake of Devonshire for the degree of LL.D.
at Cambridge, on the occasion of his installation as Chancellor new Statutes,
abolishing the previously existing religious test, had made possible for him to
accept the honour. See Bence Jones' Life Faraday, Vol. n. p. 449.
                                           of
                                                                     it

                                                                                           ;

         COLOURS OF WEATHERED GLASS               153

     Prof. Stokes in various connexions has referred to his friendly
relations with Sir David Brewster, which were not affected by the
circumstance that Sir David was apparently never able to accept

the undulatory theory of light. The papers referred to in the
first of the following letters relate to polarization and scattering

of light transmitted through thin plates of agate cut at right
angles to the striation, leading up to the surface colours exhibited

by pieces of ancient glass which have become laminated by
weathering ; the imperfection of the polarization by reflexion from
diamond is also announced. The second letter refers to Brewster's

observations on crystalline reflexion, the results of which had

formed a main basis for MacCullagh's fundamental theoretical

work on that subject.         Allerly, Melrose,

My dear Mr Stokes,            Dec. \bth, 1860.

            IYou are welcome to do whatever you think proper

about my paper; and think if you look into my paper of 1813 in
the Phil. Trans. 1814, pp. 225, 227, and into Arago's paper on
Polarisation in Encyc. Brit., and Sir John Herschel's observations
on both, you will see the connexion between my paper of 1813

and the present.

    I consider the discovery contained in my present paper as the
most important I have made, and one which had never been

anticipated. The labour it cost me lias been very great, as any
person will find who may repeat my experiments --if they can find

the means of repeating them.

     That a bundle of films should produce coloured polarisation
like crystalline plates, and that one of the interfering pencils
should consist of a number of pencils of different origin, is

certainly a very remarkable result.

   I believe that Dr Lloyd has found that this is deducible from
                       j fiver most truly yours,
theory.

                              D. BREWSTER.

                                                              Duncliffe Gardens,

                                                                                 March Sth, 1861.

I IMy experiments on Crystalline Reflexion are not published.

   have a small 4to volume filled with them, which will give,
along with the specimens of Calc Spar with which they are made,
to you or any one who will take up the subject.

   I abandoned the subject to Professor MacCullagh, who had a

154 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENGLISH CYCLOPEDIA

fine instrument constructed for him in Dublin on purpose to

investigate the subject.
     Some of my results are very curious, but the want of time

and of a good instrument induced me to leave the subject in
Prof. HacCullagh's hands*.

     My volume of experiments is at my residence in the country,

otherwise I would have mentioned to you some of the more

remarkable results.                        Allerly, Melrose,

                                                                                                       Dec. 8<A, 1864.

I would esteem it a particular favour if you could lend me

any specimens of grooved glass which give good diffracted spectra.

I possess the very finest specimens upon steel, executed by the
Ilate Sir John Barton ; but have been stopped in prosecuting

a very curious discovery by the imperfection of my specimens of

grooved glass.

                     English Cyclopaedia.

In 1859-61 the English Cyclopaedia of Arts and Sciences was

brought out by Charles Knight, on the basis of the previous

Penny Gyclop<sdia. The articles on physical subjects were revised

and brought up to date by Prof. Stokes; and a number of new ones,

mainly in the domain of Physical Optics, were writteu by him,

a list of the latter being prefixed to the last volume (viii.). It

seems from the correspondence relating to it that he took this

task seriously, and that it gave him considerable trouble, various
articles being expected from him that were not written. A list

follows of the articles thus contributed, revealing the master hand

by the keen luminous reflexions and historical appreciations which

they contain, though detailed mathematical analysis is avoided ;

the pages refer to the compact quarto single columns.

Absorption of Light    Vol. i. 1859, pp. 22--3

Elliptic Polarization  » in. I860, )» 842- -3

Interference           ;j Iv. 1860, P, 927

Optics (in part)       ), VI. 1861, pp. 65- -6
Polarization of Light  11 VI. 1861, » 858- -63
Rainbow                >) VI. 1861, )> 931- -5
Sight
                       n VII. 1861, fj 555- -62
Spectrum               » VII. 1861, P. 701
Undulatory Theory      )t VIII. 1861, pp. 466- -83

                See MacCullagh's ' Collected Papers,' passim.

EARLY HISTORY OF ELASTIC THEORY  155

                          Elasticity of Solids.

       One of the classical performances of Prof. Stokes was the
 placing of the theory of Elasticity on an exact basis, independently
 of special laws of action between molecules of ultra-ideal simplicity,
 such as those on which the equations had been founded by Poisson,
 Cauchy, and their successors. This investigation came in his
 early productive period (Camb. Phil. Trans., 1845), and is charac
 teristically appended to the memoir in which he developed similar
reasoning to establish * the equations of the motion of fluids as

affected by viscosity. In this memoir he asserted the existence of

two independent elastic constants for isotropic matter, including
substances like india-rubber, in opposition to the school of Poisson
who, proceeding from the special hypothesis of intermolecular
attraction, arrived at a definite relation connecting these two
constants. The question is perhaps still to be considered as
unsettled, or rather it has been diverted into the question of what
types of bodies have a right to be called simply isotropic.

      The rari-constant hypothesis found its most distinguished
advocate in the illustrious Saint-Venant, whose work in freeing
elastic theory from unnecessary restrictions runs parallel with
Stokes', and who has left so great a mark on the subject in many

other directions.

      The following letter, possibly preparatory to the very complete
Historical Introduction and Appendices to his edition of Navier's
Lemons (1864, pp. 90-- 311 f), shows how, in advancing subjects,
a point of view which is familiar and obvious in one school may
differ essentially from the natural course of thought in another.
The practical British method of development in mathematical
physics, by fusing analysis with direct physical perception or
intuition, still occasionally presents similar difficulties to minds
trained in a more formal mathematical discipline.

     * For previous history see his Brit. Assoc. Report on Hydrodynamics, 1846,
Part vi, reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. i.

    t In this work the consideration of Prof. Stokes' memoir, as also the

controversy mentioned in the text, is reserved wholly for Appendix V. The editor
finds (pp. 720, 755) no sufficient proof in that memoir that the isochronism of
vibrations demands linear relations between stress and strain. The detailed
criticism of Prof. Stokes' principles of elastic theory (and Maxwell's) is in
pp. 732-742.

156 ANALYSIS OF STRAIN

       From M. BARRÉ DE SAINT VENANT.

                                      Vendôme (France),

                                                      22 janvier 1862.

Monsieur,

               J'ai lu à plusieurs reprises quelques-uns de vos beaux

et savants mémoires, et j'y ai toujours trouvé instruction et grand
plaisir, bien que je sois peu familier avec votre langue.

     Mais il y en a un sur lequel je viens solliciter de votre

obligeance quelques explications ; elles me sont nécessaires pour
le comprendre, ce qui tient peut-être à ce que je l'ai eu trop
peu de temps entre les mains lors de mon dernier voyage à Paris.

     C'est le mémoire On the theories of internal friction of fluids
in motion, and of the equilibrium and motion of elastic bodies,
lu le 14 avril 1845 et inséré au tome 8e de Cambridge 1849.

      D'abord, de la page 287 jusqu'au Supplément sur quelques

cas du mouvement des fluides, qui commence à la page 409,

je n'ai rien trouvé qui soit relatif aux corps solides élastiques. Et

cependant c'est bien ce mémoire là que cite M. Maxwell au tome
xx. des Trans. Royal Society, Edinburgh, 1853, p. 89, où il dit

que vous vous appuyez sur le fait général de l'isochronisme des

petites oscillations pour égaler les pressions à des fonctions du

premier dégré des déplacements *, et que vous résolvez finalement

les équations dans trois casf, 1°, un corps pressé également

sur toute sa surface, 2°, une tige étendue, 3°, un cylindre tordu.

    Je n'ai rien trouvé de tout cela au tome 8e des Transactions

de Cambridge, pages 287 à 409.                        d'une      manière

     Est-ce que j'aurais dû le chercher ailleurs ?
     Et puis, Monsieur, je vois que vous arrivez

simple et ingénieuse, sans considérer comme Cauchy une surface

ellipsoïdale et ses rayons vecteurs normaux, à l'équation du 3e

degré                                                 dw\

                                      (dv
                                                              2

qui donne, dans les solides, les trois dilatations principales, et, dans
les fluides, les trois vitesses d'extension principales.

     Mais j'avoue ne comprendre pas bien sur quel principe vous

       * Stated in 15 of the memoir.  See 20 of the memoir.
           §                          t

                                                   §

INTRODUCTION OF DIFFERENTIAL ROTATION                                                                                                     157

vous basez pour y arriver ainsi. Je vois bien que si u, v, w sont

Ples déplacements du point dans les sens x, y, z (je dis déplace

ments comme s'il s'agissait d'un solide, parce que le raisonnement
doit être le même que pour les vitesses dans un fluide), on a pour les

Pdéplacements relatifs des points et P'

du ,         du ,      du ,        dv ,  '"'      dw ,
dx           dyy       dz '        dx             dx

Je vois aussi qu' à ces déplacements relatifs provenant des dé

placements absolus u, v, w, vous en ajoutez d'autres

            «"y-a/y, wY-o/'V, »v-»y

provenant de trois petites rotations arbitraires m, oe", a>'" autour

de Px, Py, Pz, ce qui vous donne pour les déplacements    totaux
                           T') y^\dz
dx Kdy1                                           r

et que vous  déterminez ces rotations arbitraires         de manière
qu'on ait
             dV dW dW dU dU dV
                   ~~
             dz'           '  dx'  dz" dy' dx"
                      di/

ce qui vous donne

a,=^. (\dTwy-ddzv)\ ,      m,, ^.\T(dzu -ddxw)\'  a  ,,,     , (dv du\

                                                          =Kdx-dy),

en sorte que as, as", a»'" pris en signe contraire sont, comme l'a
démontré Cauchy au tome 2bme, page 321, des Exercices d'analyse
et de physique mathématique, les rotations moyennes * du système
autour de Px, Py, Pz en vertu des déplacements u, v, w, et comme
on le démontre facilement d'une manière directe.

     D'où

 ^+i(t+£)^*(M*'' y--- *--.

expressions qui sont de même forme que les numérateurs des trois

fractions algébriques, dont les dénominateurs sont x, y, et dont
'

                                                                          is
                                                                                               §

                                                                                                                                     z1,
    * This reference to Cauchy, of date soon after 1840, does not according to
St Venant carry priority in the application of the notion of the differential rotation

in fluid motion, as he describes Prof. Stokes' analysis of 1849 (Leçons de Navier,
p. 733) as nouvelle et remarquable.'

     The definition of (u't u", id'") given by Prof. Stokes in 14 in terms of the
angular momentum in a small portion of the fluid that spherical at the moment

under consideration, and his indication of a proof that this angular momentum
remains momentarily constant, carry us in fact to the very threshold of the
fundamental theory of vortex motion discovered by Helmholtz in 1858.

158 PRINCIPAL AXES OF STRAIN

la considération de l'ellipsoïde démontre l'égalité à chacune des

trois dilatations principales e (Exercices de Mathématiques de
Cauchy, 2° année, 1827, p. 63 et 68), en sorte qu'on a bien

                  Y -U V w

                           af- z' e,

équations entre lesquelles l'élimination de x',                    ' y',est facile et
                                                                       z'
donne précisement l'équation du 3e degré en e; et les cosinus
                                                                                la
des angles des directions des trois dilatations principales avec                               le

x, y, sont
z                                                             jf_
       je                                y'2 iï_
                                                         '
                                                          y_
                           VV2 + + z'2 */~' V~'

Mais        ne vois pas, Monsieur, dans votre raisonnement

motif de tirer cette conclusion (sans doute faute d'avoir pu
l'étudier suffisamment). La justesse du résultat prouve justesse

du raisonnement, mais j'avoue ne pas comprendre. Je ne vois
                                            '
pas comment, lors que les conditions
                                               le
            dV=dW dW=dU dU=dV

            dz dy dx dz dy dx
                           à

                                      '
sont remplies, c'est         dire lorsque les rotations            moyennes                               autour
de Px, Py, Pz sont         nulles, les quotients

                                        VWU
                                  x" y"
                                            z1

doivent donner* la valeur d'une des dilatations principales, et

x, y, doivent être proportionnels aux cosinus des angles de sa
z

direction avec les x, z.
                           y,

Veuillez excuser, Monsieur, l'importunité de ma demande.

Mais l'intérêt que ces matières là ont pour moi et l'habilité avec

laquelle vous les traitez me fait beaucoup désirer de bien com

prendre les considérations que vous présentez.

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur, l'expression de mes sentiments de

haute considération.                                          de St VENANT,

auteur de divers mémoires (entre autres, sur                                                              torsion,
                         a
                            §
                                 2,

                                                                   à
                                                                                          la

                                                                                                        is
      savants étrangers, tome XIV, et Sur la flexion, Journal

      Liouville, 1856).

M. Stokes, de la Société Royale, professeur Cambridge.

* This arises from         misinterpretation of the rather difficultly expressed

argument in Prof. Stokes'      in which the principal directions are determined

from the fact that for points along each of them the relative displacement radial.

EARLY ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRA                                  159

     P.S. Je ne sais si vous avez hi une Note sur la dynamique des

fiuides, inseVée aux Comptes rendus des stances de l'Academie des

Sciences, le 27 novembre 1843, tome xvn, page 1240. J'y arrive

par une autre hypothese aux memes equations que vous *.
     P.S. Est-il possible, Monsieur, de se procurer chez un libraire

votre mémoire de 1845 sur les fluides et les solides elastiques, sans

acheter tout le volume de 1849 de Cambridge ?

      While Prof. Stokes was occupied in 1862 in mapping out
ultra-violet spectra by fluorescencef he discovered that Prof. W.
Allen Miller had been going over the same ground by photography.
As these were very early examples of the determination of spectra,
and are described in Prof. Kayser's Handbuch in connexion with

the history of the subject, the following letters seem deserving of

record.

From Professor W. ALLEN MILLER.

                                   King's College, London.

                                   March 2/62.

I am rather sorry to find we have been so closely treading
Ion each other.
                 have, since the meeting at Manchester, been

following up the photographic examination of the spectrum under

a variety of circumstances, and have obtained photographs of the

spectra produced by most of the common metals, as well as of

a large number of salts, altogether nearly 150 of one sort or other;

but I had cut out work in this direction which I thought would

If Ioccupy my leisure for three or four months longer.  should like
          you propose to read your paper on Thursday

Ito add a short one, and would bring down my photographs, though
   should certainly have wished to have had my experiments more

complete. Do not however let me in the least influence you, as

I Iyou are ready and am not ; only if you do read your notice will
Iadd a short statement of what have been about, and will show
Isome of my results.
                      am very much obliged to you for so kindly

mentioning your intentions to me.

     * Referred to in Prof. Stokes' Report on Hydrodynamics, 1846.

   t 'On the long spectrum of the Electric Light,' Phil. Trans. 1862, read June 19;

Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. it. pp. 203-233, see p. 208 in above connexion.

160 ULTRA-VIOLET TRANSPARENCY

                                                                         April 25, 1862.

I am looking forward to the completion of my paper in time

for the present session. Pray do not allow me in the least to
Iinterfere with your own wishes.  am afraid I have already

occasioned you inconvenience by your kind consideration for me.

I am working on steadily, multiplying my experiments, and

improving the definition of some of my spectra.
     Whichever way you decide, will you give me a few days' notice

Iwhen you propose to bring the matter forward, as should like
Ieven if am not finished to give a short note for the proceedings?

   I have not succeeded in getting a good impression of the

highly refrangible lines of aluminium, but have not made any

Itrials with that special object. With zinc and cadmium obtain
Iall you have sketched, and several others which you have, suppose,

seen, but purposely omitted.

   I have obtained also clear actinitic spectra of tellurium and of

I Iarsenic, and indeed of all the metals which can be easily procured.
II I                                     and think will
                                     ?
                     I
                                                                       it,
                                                                    A
                                                                                    it
find the subject expand as work upon

be better to subdivide my results, and perhaps give two papers
instead of one. If, as hope, the spectra will print pretty sharply,

a good many illustrations will be needed, indeed they constitute

the interest of the whole.

find hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, carbonic acid, and carbonic

oxide are all diactinic in moderate thicknesses.     bad term,

but one wants something to express transparency to chemical

action and to rays which produce fluorescence. Can you suggest

anything better

                                         April 29, 1862.

shall be happy to wait till the end of the session.

have already obtained a great number of results on the

transparency of different media, such as water, alcohol, ether,

bisulphide of carbon, oil of turpentine, chloroform, benzol, &c., besides

solutions of various salts in water, including sulphates, nitrates,

sulphites, acetates, oxalates, chlorides, tartrates, cyanides, and

solutions of all the ordinary bases and acids. Most of these had
I
             II

                                   I
                                               ;I

                                                             I
done before spoke to you on the subject  have since repeated

a few where      had doubt.  quite agree with you as to the

superiority of the fluorescent observations in these cases, and had

been aware at first how easily they are made, should not have

            PROF. MILLER'S MAPS OF SPECTRA               161

Iwasted time in photographing them.  have got about 200

photographs of different media, having commenced with a view

Iof getting a good dispersive and non-absorbent material for a

photographic prism. think that by multiplying my experiments
I have, although by perhaps an unnecessarily laborious method,
Igot over the difficulty of impurities -- thus
                                                have compared

carbonates, sulphates, chlorides, iodides, bromides and fluorides

of the same bases, and have obtained, where the acids were

transparent, concurrent results in most cases. My experiments

have generally been made on saturated solutions. Besides these

Iexperiments have made a series on reflections from metallic

and other surfaces, on transmitted light through various gases,

on sparks produced in various gases, and on spectra from lights

of different kinds; the latter are at present very incomplete.
I have still a large number of experiments on hand.
I IPerhaps shall see you at the R. S. on Thursday.
                                                     hope we

shall not be obliged to send in our papers on the last day,

"the murder of the innocents," as one of our friends facetiously

terms it.

                                                                                  Aug. 23, 1862.

I am much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken

respecting my paper. Do not let yours be delayed for me, as

it was owing to my fault in not completing the MS. that the

report was not ready earlier.

   I have been arranging the different spectra for the engraver.
ITwo plates will, think, be required, including between 50 and 60

spectra ; 28 or 30 will go on a quarto plate, in double rows made

Ithe long way of the plate.
        was anxious to have seen proofs of the photographs from the
Iengraver.
            do not think he will have much difficulty in copying
I Ithem accurately, but think should see proofs from time to

I Itime.                                          always use
         have no experience of Bunsen's Battery;

Grove's, and am quite satisfied with it. The cost is not much

Igreater, and it is more durable and very easy to keep in order.
   am told the connections soon get eaten through in Bunsen's, and

the spongy charcoal retains the nitric acid, and gives off fumes
slowly when it is dismounted.

Dr Andrews of Belfast however uses Bunsen's.

s. b. I.                                             11

162 SCIENTIFIC ACQUAINTANCE

Of interest about this time, as indicating the extent of his scientific acquaint
      ance, is a list of persons who were to receive private copies of the British
      Association Report, 1862, on Double Refraction.

Adams           Ferguson  Latham                Sedgwick
Aiuslie                                         Sharpey
Airy            Ferrers   Lloyd                 Smith
Andrews                                         Spottiswoode
Arlett          Fischer   Lubbock               Stoney
Akin                                            Sykes
                Forbes    Luun                  Sylvester
Babbage                                         Stevelly
Beatson         France                          Stokes, W. H.
Blomfield                                       Stokes, H. G.
Boole           Frost     Mathison              Stokes, Mrs
Brayley                                         Stokes, Archd.
Brewster        Fuller    Maxwell               Stokes, Hudleston
Brougham
Budd                      Miller                Tait

Campion         Gaskin    Miller, W. A.         Thomson, J.
Cartmell
Cayley          Gray      Moon                  Thomson, W.
Challis                                         Thurtell
Cookson         Goodwin                         Todhunter
Cory                                            Tozer
Cowie           Griffin   Newman                Tyndall

De Morgan       Grove                           Walker
Donkin                                          Walton
Drozier         Guest     Phear                 Wheats tone
                                                Whewell
Earnshaw                  Phelps                Willis
Ellis (Sidney)                                  Wolstenholme
                Hamilton  Phillips (Pres. Qu.)  Worcester
Faraday         Haughton  Power, Ja.            Wrottesley
                Hays
                          Power, Jn

                Hennessy  Potter
                Herschel  Potts

                Hind      Preston

                Holdich   Price

                Hopkins

                          Rankine

                Jellett   Robinson

                Joule     Romer

                          Rosse

                Kelland   Routh

                Kingsley  Russell

                Kirkman

                          Sabine

                Lamb [Corpus] | Savage

      Prof. Stokes was a member of the committee appointed by the
War Office in Feb. 1864, at the instance of the British Association,
" to inquire into the properties of gun-cotton as a substitute

for gunpowder for military and mining Operations." In their

Report (Dec. 1867) they say that " The general result of the
series of experiments thus instituted by the committee cannot

be better stated than is done in the concluding portion of Prof.
Stokes' report" on pp. 15 -- 17, which in five propositions sum

marises the results obtained by gun-experiments.

HISTORY OF DISCOVERY OF REACTIONS OF BLOOD                             163

    In connexion with Prof. Stokes' discoveries on the mode of
oxidation of blood, the following letters from Dr Hoppe-Seyler
seem of permanent interest. In reply to a request for advice,
Dr F. G. Hopkins, F.R.S., sends the following remarks on them.

      " Points to note with regard to the letters and their references

to Stokes' work seem to be these. In the first letter Hoppe

appears to claim knowledge of the effects of reduction upon

oxyhaemoglobin, though he had not published observations. It

is remarkable however that two years had elapsed from the time

when H. described the spectrum of oxyhaemoglobin before

Stokes' paper appeared; and the proof of the peculiar relationships

of the pigment to oxygen was of such fundamental importance

that it is hard to believe that Hoppe, if fully in possession of the

facts, would have withheld publication. One cannot but agree
with Gamgee (Schafer's Text-Book, Vol. I. p. 208) that Stokes'
'combination of chemical and optical methods in this research...
shed a flood of light on phenomena which had till then been
shrouded in darkness....' Indeed, Hoppe says in the letter that

his unpublished researches were not identical with those of

Stokes, and I suspect they had not led to any such definite

results.

   I" am not sure whether the Phil. Mag. paper (Nov. 1864)

contained the whole matter of the Proceedings Roy. Soc. paper*.
IfH. appears to have received the former from S.
                                                                it does,

it is odd that Hoppe should make no reference in the letter
to Stokes' discovery of ' red haematin ' (haemochromogen).
                                                                       This

is a derivation which took a prominent place in his subsequent

work and writings.
     " As to Hoppe's second letter, it should have removed all doubt

from the English worker's mind concerning the identity of ' blood

crystals ' and the pigment. It advances evidence which has never

been shaken."

                    Tubingen, Wurttemberg,

                    1 December 1864.

HOCHGEEHRTER HERR,

               Veranlasst durch Ihre interessanten Mittheilungen im

Philosophical Magazine, November 1864, p. 391, erlaube ich mir
Ihnen beiliegende kurze Publicationen von mir zu ubersenden, da
ich aus Ihren Arbeiten ersehe, dass meine neueren Mittheilungen

               * Republished in full in Phil. Mag., Nov. 1861.

                                                                11--2

164 RELATION OF HIS WORK TO THAT OF HOPPE-SEYLER

Ihnen unbekannt gewesen sind. So wenig ich auf den Namen
Haemoglobin bestehe, so halte ich ihn doch, nachdem ich den
Körper chemisch ausreichend untersucht habe, wegen seiner
Spaltungsproducte und seines Vorkommens für den geeignetsten.
Die von Ihnen geschilderten Veränderungen des Haemoglobins
durch Reduction sind mir wohlbekannt, aber noch nicht
veröffentlicht. Meine Versuche, die mit den Ihrigen nicht
identisch sind, habe ich jetzt zur Veröffentlichung abgesendet.
Die Gegenwart des reducirten Blutfarbstoffs im venösen Blute
lässt sich durch Untersuchung der vom Blute am wenigsten
absorbirten Lichtstrahlen leicht nachweisen, während zahlreiche
deutsche Arbeiten über den Sauerstoffgehalt des venösen Blutes
bei verschiedenen Zuständen Gehalt dieses Blutes an sauerstoff
haltigem Haemoglobin, von mir Oxyhemoglobin genannt, bereits
mit derselben Sicherheit nachgewiesen haben, als es Ihre und
meine optischen Untersuchungen des Blutes gethan haben. Ich
bin mit der Untersuchung des Blutfarbstoffs noch unausgesetzt
beschäftigt und hoffe im nächsten Jahre meine Arbeiten in
extenso herausgeben zu können ; ich werde mir dann erlauben
Ihnen dieselben zuzusenden. Ich bedaure sehr, dass ich keinen
Separatabdruck meiner zweiten Mittheilung über den Blutfarbstoff
mehr besitze, dieselbe befindet sich in Virchow Archiv für patho
logische Anatomie etc., Band 29, pag. 233 ; die übrigen bis jetzt
von mir veröffentlichten Notizen lege ich bei. Schliesslich bitte
ich zu entschuldigen dass ich Ihnen deutsch schreibe ; ich wäre
im Englischen vielleicht weniger verständlich gewesen.

                                Mit ausgezeichneter Hochachtung,
                                                         HOPPE-SEYLER.

Hochgeehrter Herr,  31 März 1865.

            Indem ich Ihnen für Ihr geschätztes Schreiben und

übersendeten Schrifteu meinen besten Dank sage, kann ich
nicht umhin Ihnen einerseits mein Bedauern darüber auszudrücken,
dass Sie die Krystallsubstanz der Blutkrystalle für etwas vom
Farbstoffe des Blutes verschiedenes halten, und andererseits nieine

wesentlichsten Gründe aufzuzählen, warum ich diese Identität
behaupte. Ich bin völlig einverstanden damit, dass der Name

Haemoglobin, den ich aus der Bezeichnung von Berzelius Haemato-

globulin abgekürzt habe (Berzelius hatte bereits erkanrt, dass

COLOURING MATTER OF BLOOD IDENTICAL WITH BLOOD-CRYSTALS 165

Haematin mit einem Eiweissstoffe, Globulin, im Blute in

Verbindung sei) nur Gültigkeit haben kann für den Begriff, den
ich damit verbunden habe ; ich habe damit die Krystalle des
Blutes bezeichnet, die auch abgesehn von den optischen Eigen
schaften sich von allen andern Körpern chemisch völlig unter

scheiden.

     Dass nun speciell der Farbstoff den Krystallen zugehört
ergiebt sich aus folgenden Verhältnissen :

     1. Die Krystalle können noch so oft 6 --8 mal umkrystallisirt

werden, sie behalten gleichen Gehalt an Eisen und gleiche
Intensität der Färbung ihrer Lösung, so lange sie unzersetzt

sind.

     2. Eine warm gesättigte Lösung der Krystalle in Wasser
giebt beim Erkalten Krystallisation von demselben Verhältniss
der Farbenintensität zum festen Rückstand wie die Mutterlauge.
Beim Verdunsten liefert die Mutterlauge reine Krystalle, nichts

ausserdem.

     3. Jede chemische Einwirkung, welche die optischen Eigen
schaften des Farbstoffs ändert, hebt auch die Krystallisirbarkeit
auf. Ausgenommen sind hier Kohlenoxyd und reducirende Stoffe
wie Schwefelammonium, welche die Krystallisirbarkeit nicht auf
heben aber auch den Farbstoff nicht zerstören. Das Haemoglobin
krystallisirt nach Behandlung mit Kohlenoxyd leichter als ohne
dies, mit Sauerstoff leichter als ohne diesen.

      4. Wenn man durch verdünnte Säuren oder durch Stehen

lassen der feuchten Krystalle über 0° den Farbstoff sich ändern
lässt, so entstehn zugleich mehrere Eiweissstoffe.

     5. Alle bekannten thierischen Farbstoffe und ebenso alle
Albuminstoffe sind fällbar durch Acetum Plumbi und Ammoniak,
nur nicht der Farbstoff des Blutes, i.e. seine Krystallsubstanz, so
lange sie unzersetzt ist.

      6. Bei der spontanen Zerlegung, Erhitzen, Behandlung mit
Schwefelwasserstoff ändert sich stets der Farbstoff während die

Krystallisirbarkeit und die chemischen Eigentümlichkeiten dieser
Substanz verloren gehn. Unter 0° getrocknet wird beim Erhitzen
über 100° weder die Krystallisationsfähigkeit noch das Verhalten
im Spectrum geändert.

      Woher kommen nun die Angaben von Lehmann, Funke und
Anderen, dass man die Blutkrystalle farblos erhalten könne ?
Alle diejenigen, welche dies behaupten, haben diesen Körper nicht

166 ANSWERS TO OBJECTIONS TO

genügend gekannt. Lässt man Blutkrystalle feucht einige Zeit
stehn und spült sie dann mit Wasser ab, so bleibt ein fibrinartiger
Körper mit Spuren von Haematin in der Form der Krystalle
zurück, während Haematin, Albumin und unzersetztes Haemo

globin gelöst werden. Dies ist die einzige Erklärung die ich für
derartige Angaben kenne und doch glaube ich nicht dass Jemaud
in dem Umfange die Bildung und Eigenschaften der Blutkrystalle
untersucht hat als ich seit 15 Jahren, seit ich mit meinen Freunden
Kunde und Funke bei Lehmann sie untersuchte. Ueber die

Bildung der Krystalle sind gleichfalls ganz irrige Vorstellungen
allgemein. Das Blut einer grossen Anzahl Thiere krystallisirt
ohne Weiteres, wenn man die Blutkörperchen in Wasser löst,
mit Aether schüttelt, filtrirt, das Filtrat mit £ Volumen Alkohol
versetzt, und 24 Stunden bei -- 1° bis -- 10° C. stehn lässt.

     Die Beobachtungen von Senarmont über künstlichen Pleo-
chroismus waren mir wohl bekannt ; ich habe deswegen diese
Eigenschaft der Blutkrystalle nie als Beweis davon angesehn, dass
der Farbstoff selbst krystallisirt sei.

     Ich habe noch hinzuzufügen, dass die Blutkrystalle, besonders
wenn sie klein sind, hell aussehn, weil sie mehr Krystallwasser
enthalten als Wasser in den Blutkörperchen enthalten ist; sie
werden aus den Blutkörperchen durch Lösung in Wasser oder
im wasserreicheren Serum erhalten und enthalten etwa ebensoviel

Krystallwasser als Haemoglobin. So lange man mir nun nicht
farblose Krystalle aus dem Blute vorlegt (und zwar nicht mikro-
scopisch) die man ohne Zerlegung umkrystallisiren und auf ihre
Eigenschaften untersuchen kann, so wie ich es mit dem mehrmals

umkrystallisirten Haemoglobin gethan habe, sehe ich mich
genöthigt alle Angaben über farblose Blutkrystalle für Täusch
ungen, die auf Verwechselung mit andern Körpern, Verunreini
gungen oder Zersetzungen beruhen, zu halten. Lehmann ist aus
dem Grunde mit der Untersuchung dieser Krystalle nicht vom
Flecke gekommen, weil er stets darauf ausging, farblose Krystalle
zu erhalten und weil er nicht die Zersetzungen des Farbstoffes
in ihrem Einfluss auf die Krystallisirbarkeit der Substanz

beachtete.

     Da nun die sämmtlichen von mir angegebenen Eigenschaften
des Blutfarbstoffs, die sich bei der Spectraluntersuchung zeigen,
den Blutkrystallen eigen sind und der Körper, welcher sie zeigt,
von mir Haemoglobin zuerst genannt ist, so würde nach allge-

         IDENTITY OF BLOOD-CRYSTALS WITH HAEMOGLOBIN  167

meinem Brauche erst dann die Bezeichnung Cruorin anwendbar

sein, wenn nachgewiesen würde, dass derjenige Körper, welchen ich
als Haemoglobin bezeichnet habe, ein Gemenge mehrerer Körper
sei; bis dahin wäre ich durchaus nicht einverstanden etwa die
Sache in suspenso zu lassen, denn ich halte einmal meine Unter

suchungen für mehr werth als dass man sie wegen Zweifel, die ich
längst selbst durchgemacht habe und deren Unhaltbarkeit optische
und chemische Untersuchungen in Gemeinschaft zeigen, einfach bei
Seite schiebt. Eine künstiche Darstellung von Blutfarbstoff aus
Haematin werde ich nicht versuchen, dagegen sind ausser mir
mehrere Practicauten in meinem Laboratorium mit der weiteren

Untersuchung des Haemoglobin beschäftigt. Sobald ich Zeit
finde, werde ich meine Untersuchungen über diesen Körper, von
denen ich bis jetzt nur einige wichtige Resultate veröffentlicht
habe, im Zusammenhange ausführlich publiciren.

     Hinsichtlich der Unterscheidung der Uebermangansäure
bedaure ich sehr Ihre berühmte Arbeit von 1852 in den Philo

sophical Transactions nicht in dieser Beziehung in der Erinnerung
gehabt zu haben ; Sie haben in derselben bereits das Spectrum des
Uebermangansäure genau beschrieben. Dagegen richtete sich
meine Notiz gegen eine erst 1858 erschienene Arbeit von H. Rose,
worin derselbe sich auf das phosphorsaure Manganoxyd stützt
und von diesem bis jetzt einzig in Lösung erhaltenen reinen
Manganoxydsalze sagen Sie nichts. Dass meine Notiz nicht

überflüssig war, zeigt die Verbreitung, welche dieselbe gänzlich
ohne mein Zuthun erhalten hat. Ich hoffe bald Gelegenheit zu
haben, in einer zu publicirenden Arbeit Ihre Priorität hinsichtlich

des Uebermangansäurespectrum zu wahren.
      Einige neuere Mittheilungen über den Blutfarbstoff erlaube

ich mir Ihnen durch Post zu übersenden.

                                       Mit grösster Hochachtung,
                                                         HOPPE-SEYLER.

     The following undated memorandum, which appears to contain
a plan for experiments, has been found recently among Prof. Stokes'

papers.

         Blood.

    If scarlet haematoglobulin be reduced to purple by the iron

salt and then acidified by tartaric (suppose) acid [compare the

spectrum with scarlet haematoglobulin acidified and with haematin]

168 PLAN FOR EXPERIMENTS ON REACTIONS OF BLOOD

ammonia may then be added with little [try whether so, if all

access of oxygen be cut off] precipitation. The spectrum is very
marked, and differs much from that of purple haematoglobulin,
                                                                                               |||
instead of  The substance readily absorbs oxygen, and then
                                                                                                  is |||
gives very nearly the spectrum of scarlet haematoglobulin; but on

reduction again the former spectrum and not that of purple

haematoglobulin appears.

[Try carbonic acid on a putrid solution shaken with air till the

colouring matter scarlet.]
     Protosulphate of iron [try with

reduce scarlet haematoglobulin, but
it                                               neutral tartrate] does not
             |                                     a little tartaric acid be
              HI

               if
                       if is

                                       a
                                             is

                                             if a
added, which gives haematin-like spectrum, and then ammonia,

the band substance, and not purple haematoglobulin,

produced, though there    besides some precipitation.

This looks as scarlet haematoglobulin at the moment when

tended to split under the action of an acid was easily reduced,

and thereby escaped splitting, being only modified.

Also as in the actual splitting oxygen was given off (agrees

with an experiment by Mayer, Pogg. Ann.).

     The Presidential Address of Gen. Sabine on Nov. 30, 1864,a

contains long account (Roy. Soc. Proc. XIII., pp. 505 --510) of the
work of Mr Darwin, in connexion with the award of the Copley

Medal. The terms used in referring to The Origin Species gave
                                                   of
rise to vigorous protest, which still remembered. The followingof
                          is
                                    is
paragraph of the Address (p. 508)                the one referred to in the

letters printed below  :

In his most recent work On the Origin              Species, although
opinions may be divided or undecided with respect to its merits in
some respects, all will allow that contains a mass of observation
                          it

bearing upon the habits, structure, affinities, and distribution of
animals, perhaps unrivalled for interest, minuteness, and patience
of observation. Some amongst us may perhaps incline to accept
the theory indicated by the title of this work, while others may
perhaps incline to refuse, or at least to remit to future time,
;

                   I

                                    it
                                           it

                                                           it

                                                                                            a
when increased knowledge shall afford stronger grounds for its
ultimate acceptance or rejection. Speaking generally and collec
tively, we have not included in our award. This on the one
hand on the other hand, believe that, both collectively and in
dividually, we agree in regarding every real bond fide inquiry into
the truths of nature as in itself essentially legitimate; and we also
know that in the history of science has happened more than once
that hypotheses or theories, which have afterwards been found

AWARD OF COPLEY MEDAL TO CHARLES DARWIN      169

true or untrue, being entertained by men of powerful minds, have
stimulated them to explore new paths of research, from which, to
whatever issue they may ultimately have conducted, the explorer
has meanwhile brought back rich and fresh spoils of knowledge.

     Mr Francis Darwin, who has kindly given information on this
subject, points out that in the Life and Letters of Charles Darwin,
Vol. Hi., p. 29, the quotation was made from The Reader, which
has the words " we have expressly omitted it from the grounds of
our award," instead of the words " we have not included it in our
award," which appear in the authentic text quoted above.

     A fragment of a MS. draft exists, apparently Gen. Sabine's,

in which the words occur as in The Reader : but an addition to
the first sentence of the extract quoted above is deleted, which ran
as follows; "and they are distinguished by the same impartial
judgment and the same extraordinary power of generalisation by
which Mr Darwin's labours in every branch of Natural History are

characterized."

     The subject occurs also in the Life and Letters of T. H. Huxley,
Edit. 1, Vol. I., p. 255, where a letter is given in which Prof. Huxley
expresses his distrust of Gen. Sabine.

      The replies from Huxley that are printed below have been
taken from his own rough drafts, to which he must have attached
some importance, as they were confided by him many years after
wards to the care of Mr F. Darwin.

              Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

Dear Huxley,  December 5th, 1864.

              It seems that my ears were right after all, in spite of

the concurrent testimony of three or four of you. The words
" expressly excluded " do not occur in the address, so that Falconer

Ineed not have been so ready to attribute his not hearing them to

his deafness, and my not hearing them to the physical exertion
consequent on continued loud reading after a bad cold. General

ISabine has sent me both the page of his original MS. and the

printed proof from which read, and the words ran thus. After
referring to the work on the origin of species, and saying that not
withstanding some difference of opinion "all will allow that it
contains a mass of observation bearing upon the habits... of animals
perhaps unrivalled for interest, minuteness, and patience of obser

170 "ORIGIN OF SPECIES" AND AWARD OF COPLEY MEDAL

vation," and saying that some among us might be inclined to

accept and others to refuse or postpone the acceptance of the
                     he adds, " Speaking generally and collec
theory contained inis
                     a it,

                                           it

                                                                                       ;
tively, we have expressly omitted                             from the grounds of our

award." Now this     plain matter of fact the work was not,

could not well have been, ignored before the Council. Darwin's
supporters " expressly omitted " this work, about which there was,

as we know, much difference of opinion, from among the grounds

of the award. His claims were put forward with the distinct and

avowed omission of this work.

In the case of minor work would be sufficient to pass sub
           is                                                 it                          it it
                                                                          of
silentio. But that could not be done in the case of a work whicha

has made so much stir as The Origin                                           Species. All the world

would say the Medal had been given for that book, that had

been endorsed by the formal and solemn approval of the Royal

Society.                                                                      it it

     Now there a wide interval between putting a book in an
index expurgatorius and declining to honour with the Copley
Medal of the Royal Society. Had no notice been taken of the
express omission which as a matter of fact was made, any member
of the Council would have a just cause of complaint, that the
understanding on the strength of which alone, may be, he voted
for Darwin, namely that the Council should not be considered as
committed in any way to that particular book, had been practically

violated.

3. 2. 1.On the whole submit
            That as matter of fact the work on the Origin of Species
           aI
                                                           :was " expressly omitted " from the grounds on which the award of
the Medal was asked to be made.

          That good faith and truthfulness require that this omission

should be stated.
            That the words used imply this and no more, and neither

were intended nor are calculated to have the effect of placing the
work in a sort of index expurgatorius.

                                                              Yours very truly,

                                                                         G. G. STOKES.

ITS SPECIFIC OMISSION CHALLENGED By HUXLEY     171

Dear Huxley,              December 5th, 1864.

                     There was an expression in my last which is not

Iperhaps rigorously exact. Instead of saying " declining to honour

it with the Copley Medal of the Royal Society" should have
said simply "not honouring it with the Copley Medal of the
Royal Society." For declining implies having been asked, and
there was no asking in the present case.

                                                    Yours very truly,
                                                           G. G. STOKES.

     My dear Stokes,

            I never had a clearer and more distinct impression in
Imy life than that heard the words "expressly excluded"; and at
Ithe risk of seeming presumptuous would suggest that it is just

possible that you may have inadvertently substituted the one

word for the other, the sense of the two being for all practical

Ipurposes identical. But this is merely for your consideration ;

quite admit that we are bound by the printed words, as they

express what the writer meant to say, which is the only point of

Iimportance.

    At the same time disclaim all responsibility for the mistake,
Iif there has been one.
                          stated openly and fairly what my own
Iimpression was, and if erred it was for the President or yourself

to correct me. The document was before you, and if any error

Ibecame current through what said, it really is not my fault.

    However, I do not see that it makes any difference whether

the words used were " expressly omitted " or " expressly excluded."

     Not to fight about words let me briefly state my own position
to you. As a Fellow of the Society I object to the following

passage in the address :

" Speaking generally and collectively we have expressly

omitted it from the grounds of our award"

on the grounds that

    1. It clearly implies not only that the omission, but that the

formal and public notification of that omission, was the result of a
distinct determination of the Council as a body, arrived at after
due consideration. And further that Darwin's friends accepted

the medal for him, clearly understanding that such public notifica

tion would be made.

172 huxley's relations to darwin

   INow cannot find any such record of such a determination of
the Council; nor, since I know that both the proposer and seconder

of Darwin were exceedingly astonished and annoyed when they

became aware of (I won't say heard) the paragraph in question,
can I conceive that any tacit understanding on the subject should

Ihave been entertained by them. Had been a member of the
ICouncil myself would not have accepted the medal for Darwin

if the insertion of that paragraph had been a condition of the

award.

2. But, even supposing that the paragraph in question had

been inserted with the full knowledge and consent of Darwin's

supporters, and as the result of an express resolution of the Council,
I (in my capacity as a Fellow of the Society) nevertheless object
Ito it and protest against it.  do so because I hold that the

address to a medallist should state only the grounds upon which

the medal is awarded, and should not indulge in critical remarks
Ieither favourable or unfavourable on any other subject.
                                                          can

conceive no worse precedent to be established than one which

should justify some future President, who had strongly opposed a

medallist, in inserting of his own motion a derogatory paragraph

in his address.

    I think that Darwin's supporters had a right to base their

claims on whatever grounds they pleased, and to omit anything

they pleased : and if any member of the Council objected to vote

for Darwin, unless his theory of the origin of species was not only

omitted from the award, but stigmatised by the fact of that
omission being publicly affirmed to be the " collective and general "

act of the Council, I think he was bound to move that words to

that effect should form a part of the resolution awarding the

medal, and fairly and openly take the sense of the Council there
If Iupon.
        this course had been taken            should have no less

objected to the result, but my remarks would have been directed

against the Council and not against the President, who would

(under these circumstances and these only, in my opinion) have
been fully justified in saying what he did.

    As I have repeatedly stated in public, I should be sorry to

stand committed to the opinion that the truth of Darwin's

hypothesis is demonstrated, and therefore it is not likely that I

should have wished the Royal Society to place itself either

directly or indirectly in the same position.

           PROCEDURE IN AWARD OF ROYAL SOCIETY'S MEDALS 173

    But, if it were really necessary to allude to Darwin's theory

for the purpose of preventing the public from supposing that the

           I

                                                   is

                                                  iIt,
Royal Society awarded the Copley Medal for                should have had

no objection to its being done in a proper way after due consulta

tion with those who were interested.

    What do protest against         that, without the knowledge and

consent of Darwin's proposer and seconder, a phrase should have

been inserted which compresses the maximum amount of offence

into the handiest possible form for Darwin's opponents.

    Then to sum up object to the phrase quoted
                      if it
    2. 1.  Because purports to be the act of the Council "collectively
                         it I
and generally," whereas so far as the evidence before me goes           a it

was not so, but the act of the President expressing what he

conceived to be the opinion of some of the Council.

           Because,          was the act of the Council,   irregular and
                                           I
inexpedient to introduce negative considerations into an address
                                                 it
which
                                                       is
           properly concerned only with the positive merit of
           is
person.
             I
I          may be quite wrong in my views, but wish you to see at

any rate that they are clear and definite and not based on any

mere captious criticism.

    Indeed, may say that never more anxiously pondered what
                                II
it  was my duty to do, than on the other evening, but (with one

exception of which your letter twice reminds me) should take
                                         I
the like course under like circumstances.
                                                       I
    That exception          is  the phrase " index expurgatorius," which

escaped me unwittingly, and for which expressed my regret to

the Treasurer the same evening.

           desired to say nothing that should be in the smallest degree
I

                   :
wanting in due respect for either the person or the office of the

President so much so that did not take the course which was

open to me, by moving an amendment that "we should collectively
and generally expressly omit" the passage in question from the

printed address.

    By so doing should have dealt as disrespectfully with the
                      is I
President as, in my judgment, he will do with Darwin any part
                                                           if

of that passage allowed to stand.     I    am glad to have had the

opportunity of making these explanations, with which you can

deal as you please.                am, Ever yours very faithfully,

                                I                     T. H. HUXLEY.

174 CONTROVERSY REGARDING TERMS OF AWARD

                           Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

My dear Huxley,                                     December 7th, 1864.

            IOf course       cannot say that it is mathematically
Icertain that in reading from a printed paper did not through
inadvertence read " excluded " for " omitted " ; but it is most
violently improbable that I should have made such a change,

and the President, knowing as he must his own words, would be

sure to have noticed it. It does not seem to me at all improbable

that in your recollection of what was rapidly said you should have

substituted for one word another which you deem of similar

import.

However, you agree to accept "omitted," and the question

arises whether this correctly describes what passed.

     Now by the rules of the Royal Society the award of the Medal
is as you know made by the Council alone. Therefore the " we "

cannot mean the Royal Society at large, but the Council. The
               are the words " we have expressly omitted "
question thenby
                        is,

                                                                           ?

                                                                                                                            a
correct account of what passed

The proposal of the Copley Medal to Darwin was as you know

made     Falconer, who rested his claims on other grounds. The

work on the Origin of Species was however too important to be

passed sub silentio, and therefore he gave reasons for not including

that among the grounds of the award. When the matter thus

came formally before the Council, the President from the Chair
used words of this general purport " Then we are to understand
                               it,
that the work on the Origin of Species  :           not included among
                                                is
the grounds of the award of the Copley Medal to Mr Darwin."

This was assented to, and the Council considered and voted on

Mr Darwin's claims accordingly.

     Now there are two modes of omission, by silence or express

mention. If the naming of a work by the proposer of a medal and
                                                          by
saying why he did not include followed by a formal statement
                                                                    it by
made from the Chair and assented to, that that work was not in

cluded among Mr Darwin's claims for the Medal, be not an "express"

omission, don't know what is.
         I

But what are Mr Darwin and his friends to understand
this " express " omission
               ?               That the Council have passed any
                          ?
censure on the book No such thing but only that, while the
                                 ;

Council were not prepared, or at least were not asked, to reward

with the Copley Medal, was too important to be passed sub
                           it

          OF COPLEY MEDAL TO CHARLES DARWIN                                                       175

silentio, and had to be mentioned in order to guard the Council

from being committed to it
                                                    Yours very truly,

                                                           G. G. STOKES.

    My dear Stokes,

          I have never imagined that the " we " referred to

anybody but the Council.

    I thought that Darwin was proposed for the medal by Busk*

and not, as you say, by Falconer, but that is a matter of no

moment.

   IMost unquestionably do not think that an assent by the

proposer (whomsoever) to such words as " Then we are to under
stand that the work on the origin of species is not included among
the grounds of the award of the Copley Medal to Mr Darwin,"

from the President, affords a justification for the mention in the

address of the passage complained of, or any allusion whatever to

that work.

    Even if the informal and general assent of Darwin's proposer

to such a proposition could be held to bind the Council, and could
be interpreted as the " general and collective " determination of

the whole body (a monstrous supposition), all that it could justify

would be silence respecting the book.

    How can an agreement to say nothing about a book justify

one of the parties to that agreement, in telling all the world that

it "contains many observations... unrivalled for interest, minute

ness, &c." ? See address.

   If Ithat which you have mentioned occurred, and gladly take

your authority forI   the case                            worse than ever in my appre
                 I
hension.
                              it,
                                                      is
     To this letter Prof. Stokes replied (Dec. 8), admitting that " in
my last made some confusion between Darwin's proposer and
seconder which beg you to conceive corrected " he then passed
on to a reminder connected with proof sheets which, as turned

out, were being delayed on account of engraving.
                                                                              :

                                                                                        it

    * He was proposed by Busk, seconded by Falconer. The latter was unable to be

present at the first Council meeting for the award of medals, and therefore wrote to
                   Se"crsettraornyg(saede d"itiMonorael
Dr   Sharpey the                                         Letters  of Charles  Darwin,"  i. 252);  he speaks
of  the Origin as                                        claim."
                   a

176 RELATIONS OF STOKES TO HUXLEY
     Huxley's reply on the latter subject winds up as follows :
     " Now it is my turn to have a little chaff, as we have taken to

that line. Don't you think that ' As Falconer is to Busk so is
excluded to omitted ' is a good rule of three sum ? And that our
worthy and usually very accurate Secretary, who could make the
one mistake in writing, might (without too great risk) be supposed
to have made the other in reading ?

     "The above problem in proportion is of course of a private

character."

                                   SI,

                COLLEAGUES AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY                                    177

     Soon afterwards, in 1872, Prof. Stokes gained Huxley as a
colleague in the office of Secretary of the Royal Society, and the
relations of the two men became closer, as is illustrated by the
characteristic autograph above reproduced, the more intimate
association detracting in no way from their feelings of mutual

confidence and regard. See supra, p. 48.

                                          Fowet, Cornwall.

My dear Stokes,                                                             Sept. 26, 1884.

       I have written              to Mr White to go on with Gore's

Ipaper.

        shall be back in town next week and shall then read the

article you have sent me (for which accept my thanks in advance)
with great interest.
IThese problems* have a perennial attraction for me.
                                                                    began
Ilife by thinking about them, and if live long enough to extricate
Imyself from the distractions by which find my time most unsatis
factorily frittered away at present, I shall end it in the same

occupation.                  Ever yours very faithfully,

                                                 T. H. HUXLEY.

The opposition, started by Huxley, to the President of the

Royal Society holding a seat in Parliament, has already been

referred to (supra, p. 102). A more complete account, taken
from The Life and Letters of T. H. Huxley, Vol. II. pp. 173-6, is
in place here.

     " Thus there is a good  deal in his  6cotorreSsiproJn.deHnocoekebr e:a--ring  on
this matter. He writes on    November

I am extremely exercised in my mind about Stokes' going
Iinto Parliament (as a strong party man, moreover) while still
             do not know what you may think about but to my
P.R.S.       utterly wrong-- and degrading to the Society -- by introit,

mind     a is                                                    I
II
ducing politics into its affairs.
     it
"And on the same day to Sir M. Foster: --

      think  it      extremely improper for the President of the R.S.

                 is

to accept position as party politician. As a Unionist should
                       a

vote for him   it iIf  had a vote for Cambridge University, but for all

that think most lamentable that the Presidency of the Society
should be dragged into party mud.

                       * Probably those of Natural Theology.

S. b.    I.                                                         12

   178 OBJECTIONS TO POLITICAL ACTIVITY WHILE PRESIDENT R. S.

I

   IWhen I was President refused to take the Presidency of the
   Sunday League, because of the division of opinion on the subject.
   Now we are being connected with the Victoria Institute, and
   sucked into the slough of politics.
   These considerations weighed heavily with several, both of the
   older and the younger members of the Society ; but the majority

   were indifferent to the dangers of the precedent. The Council
   could not discuss the matter ; they waited in vain for an official

   announcement of his election from the President, while he, as it
   turned out, expected them to broach the subject.
        Various proposals were discussed ; but it seemed best that, as

   a preliminary to further action, an editorial article written by
   Huxley should be inserted in Nature, indicating what was felt by
   a section of the Society, and suggesting that resignation of one of
   the two officers was the right solution of the difficulty.

       Finally, it seemed that perhaps, after all, a ' masterly in
   activity ' was the best line of action. Without risk of an authori

   tative decision of the Society ' the wrong way,' out of personal
   regard for the President, the question would be solved for him by
   actual experience of work in the House of Commons, where he
   would doubtless discover that he must ' renounce either science, or

   politics, or existence.'
        This campaign, however, against a principle, was carried on
   without any personal feeling. The perfect simplicity of the
   President's attitude would have disarmed the hottest opponent,
                                        hFoimstetrhe:--fo' llowhiantge  letter,
   Iand indeed Huxley took occasion to write                            doing

   in reference to which he writes to Dr
   things in the dark and could not stand it any longer.'

   My dear Stokes,                                   Dec. 1, 1887.

                IWhen we met in the hall of the Athenaeum on

   Monday evening was on the point of speaking to you on a
   somewhat delicate topic ; namely, my responsibility for the leading
   article on the Presidency of R.S. and politics which appeared a
   Ifortnight ago in Nature. But was restrained by the reflection
   Ithat had no right to                about   the matter without the
                          say anything           obtained that consent,
   consent of the Editor  of Nature.    I have
   Iand take the earliest opportunity of availing myself of my

   Ifreedom.

            should have greatly preferred to sign the article, and its
   anonymity is due to nothing but my strong desire to avoid the
   introduction of any personal irrelevancies into the discussion of a

   IveryIgrave question of principle.   certain  to  vote  in  the      way
         may add that as you are quite
   that think right on the only political questions which greatly
   interest me, my action has not been, and cannot be, in any way

   affected by political feeling.

                     RELATIONS OF STOKES TO HUXLEY                                       179

   IAnd
Iman of
        ascsietnhceere--isnonoonoenewohfomwhomshouhladvebea         higher opinion as a
                                                                    more glad to serve
under, and to support year after year in the Chair of the Society,
Iand no                  beelinetveertathinat,feieflitnhgesre  of                  friend
Iship --                                                        is                 article
        one for whom                                                more sincere
         trust you will                                             a word in the
which appears inconsistent with these feelings, it is there by over

sight, and is sincerely regretted.
      During the thirty odd years we have known one another, we
have often had stout battles without loss of mutual kindness. My
chief object in troubling you with this letter is to express the hope
that, whatever happens, this state of things may continue.

                         I am, yours very faithfully,

                                                               T. H. HUXLEY.

      P.S. -- I am still of opinion that it is better that my author
        should                      Irecognised, but you are, of course,
ship    to use  not  be officially
free            the  information       have given you in any way you

may think fit.

      "To this the President returned a very frank and friendly
reply; saying he had never dreamed of any incompatibility existing
between the two offices, and urging that the Presidency ought not
                                                               duties as                 He
to constrain a  man  to  give  up   his  ordinary                           a  citizen.

concludes :--

      IAnd now have stated my case as it appears to myself ; let me
assure you that nothing that has passed tends at all to diminish
Imy friendship towards you. My wife heard last night that the
article was yours                        rather thought                     it must
been written by      Itand told me so.                                      however,     have
                     some hot Gladstonian.                          seems,               that

her informant was right. She wishes me to tell you that she

replied to her informant that she felt quite sure that if you wrote
it,
        was because you thought it.
  I it
      " To which Huxley replied --
                               ;
        am much obliged for your letter, which just such as felt:
sure you would write.                                          is

                                                                       I
                                                                             I
Pray thank Mrs Stokes for her kind message.                                    am very
grateful for her confidence in my uprightness of intention.
ItWe must agree to differ.

     may be needful for me and those who agree with me to
place our opinions on record but you may depend upon                                     that
                                                                               it

nothing will be done which can suggest any lack of friendship or
respect for our President."

                                                                               12--2

180 CALCULATION RELATING TO HEREDITY

              Hodeslea, Staveley Road, Eastbourne.

My dear Stokes,                                   Oct. 26, 1891.

IVery many thanks for the copy of Natural Theology
which has just reached me.  see it will need careful reading.
I hope the report I saw the other day that you were not going

to stand for the University again may be true. Scientific razors

are too good for chopping parliamentary blocks !

                         Ever yours very faithfully,

                                             T. H. HUXLEY.

     From time to time letters passed between Charles Darwin and

Prof. Stokes on philosophical points or on scientific business. The
following letters will serve as illustrations, that from Prof. Stokes
having been kindly supplied by Mr F. Darwin.

My dear Prof. Stokes,       6, Queen A'nne St, London, W.
                                               Thursday*.

Absence from home has prevented me from sooner

thanking you most sincerely for the trouble which you have so
Ikindly taken for me.
                       was rather crazy with curiosity to know
Iwhat the chances were.
                         believe your way of stating the problem
I Iis rather better for me.
                            think understand your two letters.

The second way of calculating the case is much the best for me.
I have made a copy for myself of your MS. sentence and have
Ialtered the few words and figures which are necessary.
                                                         cannot
I Isuppose that have made any blunder ; so if do not receive
Iyour sentence back, shall understand that it is right.

With my sincere thanks, pray believe me,

                            Yours truly obliged,

                             CH. DARWIN.

                            Down, Bromley, Kent, S.E.

My dear Sir,                 Feb. 18th [before 1870].

I have ventured to send my son to you to obtain a little

information for me, on one point, if in your power to give and
i.
                             it
                                                           a

                                                                                            a

                                                                           it,
by this means you will be saved the trouble of answering this

note. Have you ever attended to feathers, and can you tell me

     * Mr F. Darwin points out that this letter, which he regards as character
istic, must be dated before 1868, as refers to passage in Variation of Animals
and Plants, Ed. 1868, Vol. 11. p. 5. Prof. Stokes had supplied calculation as
to the chance of transmission of abnormalities in man.

       CAUSE OF COLOURS OF PEACOCK'S FEATHER                      181

whether the splendid colours of the eye of a Peacock's tail depends
Ifon colouring matter, or on reflection ?
                                           on the latter, as appears
the case, I much want to know, whether any change of structure,
-- as the distance of a film, or the distance of fine lines or points
from each other--gradually, but perhaps not equally, increasing or

diminishing, would account for the series of colours, which surrounds

the eye, and passes into the general tint of the barbs at the
circumference of the feather. Will you be so kind as to look at

the feather, and tell my son anything you can ? Pray forgive me

for troubling you and believe me,

              My dear Sir, yours sincerely,

                                             CH. DARWIN.

                                                                                                            Feb. 28M.

   I am very much obliged to you for your great kindness in

writing to me at such length about the colours of the peacock's
feathers. As you say that you will look at it again, will you have
the kindness to attend to one point, namely, whether a gradual
thickening or thinning by little steps from the centre to the
circumference of the film of colouring matter would account for
the zones of colour which occur ; or must there be zones of

different kinds of colouring matter?
     With very sincere thanks, believe me,

                                            My dear Sir, yours truly,

                                               CHARLES DARWIN.

                                   Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

My dear Sir,                         20th Dec. 1875.

       You may remember that some years ago you asked

Imy opinion as to the cause of the colours in peacocks' feathers.
   made some experiments, or rather observations hardly deserving
Ithe name of experiments, about it.
                                     felt however that it was a

I Imatter hardly to be attacked without a thoroughly good microscope
which  did not then possess.       expressed a leaning to the

opinion that the colours were reflection-colours connected with

intense absorption, and similar accordingly to the reflection-colours

seen when some of the aniline colouring matters are poured in

solution on glass, and the solvent allowed to evaporate. I felt at

the time I think misgivings as to whether so much play of colour

as is observed could thus be accounted for.

182 ACTIVITY ON METEOROLOGICAL COUNCIL

IAs have helped to lead you wrong if you followed my
guidance, it is but just that I should direct you to a right
Isolution. Some little while ago
                                  was with Mr Sorby, who
Iwished to show me some other experiments, and found that he

has been studying birds' feathers, as to their colours, and had

arrived at the solution of the cause of the play of colours in the

feathers of peacocks, humming birds &c. I am not sure whether
If Ihe has yet published his results.
                                  he has, have no doubt he

If Iwill be happy to send you copies of his papers if he has not done
so already*.      not, dare say he would explain to you in a few
words their general nature. Though I feel confident of his
Ipermission, refrain as a matter of principle from communicating

to a third person what has been told me by a friend of his unpub

lished researches. Besides it is due to him not to spoil the

pleasure he would feel in communicating to you for the first time

his own results.  I am, dear Sir, Yours sincerely,

Chas. Darwin, Esq., F.R.S.        G. G. STOKES.

                          Meteorological Council.

     In 1866 Prof. Stokes became one of the original members of
the Meteorological Council, then and until recently constituted

as a Committee of the Royal Society which administered the
meteorological affairs of the United Kingdom by means of a
Treasury Grant in Aid. The Council was in the following years

a very active body. His letters and papers contain masses of

material relating to its work. When new projects were under
consideration, he was subject to constant reference from the Office
on all points of difficulty : his conscientiousness on these matters
led him to put aside his own investigations in order to discharge
to the full the public duty that he had assumed. As illustrations
may be mentioned, the organisation of a plan of systematic obser
vation of the altitude of clouds in 1885 ; a very interesting
correspondence on the observation of trains of waves at sea and
the deductions that may be made relating to the distant storms
that originated them ; the earliest practical construction and

     * In the Royal Society Catalogue there are several entries of papers about this

time, on the colouring matters of algae, black feathers, etc., by Dr H. C Sorby, but

apparently no paper relating to feathers of peacocks or humming birds.

            PRESSURE UPON STOKES TO JOIN THE COUNCIL     183

testing of harmonic analysers ; the improvement of anemometers,
in which he was deeply implicated through the researches of his
father-in-law Dr Robinson ; the measurement of solar radiation ;

and many other topics. Correspondence on all these subjects is
given infra, Vol. II.

    The following letter from Prof. H. J. S. Smith, of Oxford, who

became the first Chairman, testifies to the importance that was
attached from the beginning to Prof. Stokes' cooperation.

Dear Professor Stokes,      University Museum, Oxford,
                                        April 11, 1866.

            I am well aware that Dr Hooker has already addressed

you on the subject of the proposed Meteorological Council, and

that you have given strong and well considered reasons for being

reluctant to join it.

    I venture nevertheless, though with great diffidence, to write

to you upon the same subject.

     Perhaps you may have heard from Dr Hooker that he intends

I(as at present advised) to suggest to the Council of the R. S.

that should become the Chairman of the proposed Council

(supposing the present negotiations to terminate successfully).

   I believe it is contemplated that three of the present Com

mittee -- De la Rue, F. Galton, and Gen. Strachey --should serve

on the new Council ; and certainly a more fitting selection could

not be made.
IIf became Chairman there would
              IThis, am strongly convinced,  be but one vacancy
remaining.                                   should be filled by an

eminent Physicist. That is to say, if by any means it be possible,

we should have you.

   I understand your main objection to be that you might be taken

away from Cambridge more than you would think right. The

meetings would be fortnightly (I am informed), not weekly : they
could easily be placed so as to suit your convenience with regard

to the R. S. ; and I do not think they need prolong materially

your absences from Cambridge. The points, on which your

advice would be urgently needed, would not be points of ad
Iministration or routine (with such men as the three
Imentioned on the Council,                            have

                            think you might be effectually

shielded from such work). Your opinion would be wanted on
scientific questions, and especially as to the scientific enquiries

  184 RELATIONS WITH PROF. H. J. S. SMITH

which ought to be undertaken by the office, and as to the persona

who ought to undertake them. Such advice you could give

without quitting Cambridge. I might add that (if I were Chair
man) I should think nothing of coming to Cambridge to obtain

a it,only am afraid that the prospect of such visitations might
      is
have a deterrent effect on you.
       I
    You will notice that take a strong personal interest in the
             is

                    I

                                 is
matter, and this but natural, because, although there only
                                                                                ;

                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                             is
    possibility of my being the Chairman, that possibility alone

  enough to make me more anxious than like to say to obtain
                                                                        aI
  such help as yours. There          no one in all England whose name

  would carry so much scientific weight as yours and, what after

  all of more importance, there no one who could tell, as youis

  could, what attempts are worth making, what problems are utterly

  hopeless, in word what can be done, and what cannot, toward
             a

                I
                    I
  giving a sound scientific direction to the work of the office. With

  such advice as yours should feel comparatively safe without
    am quite sure should be much adrift. It                                     is

                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                       it
I                                                                                  well known in

  the scientific world (excuse so personal                                remark) that you give

  invaluable advice very freely to scientific men who ask you for

  it. think  little hard that the Meteorological Council should
    I

                 it

                        a

                                                   it
  not have this advantage, because                                      would offer you a certainly

  very inadequate remuneration in return for it.

    One word with reference to myself. Dr Hooker, and the three

  gentlemen  have mentioned, have all signified to me at various
          I
             I

                         I
                              is I

                                       I
  times their wish that should be the Chairman.                                 II strongly feel

  the importance and the honourableness of the office, but have
                                                                                    ;I
  the strongest doubts as to whether am the right man for the

  place.     am very ignorant at present of meteorology proper and

II  have many other scientific interests upon which could easily

  spend my whole time.       can truly say that a place on the

  Meteorological Council not an object of ambition to me there
                                                                                    I:
  are other things (of less importance, no doubt) in which know
     can do some little bits of work whether can make anything                              if
             is                                                           it I

                      it

                             is
                                       a

                               I
                                                                     ;
of meteorology, and of the Meteorological Office, do not know.
                                                                                I

    Under these circumstances shall feel a real kindness,

you would exert an independent judgment for me in the matter;

and interpose to prevent great mistake from being made, in

case you think (as      very likely you may think) the President

and my other friends are making one in thinking of me. What

I   have done to place myself in the President's hands but
                                                                                    ;

                                                                                          I

RESEARCH ON IMPROVED METHODS IN HYGROMETRY                    185

am very anxious that his hands should be guided aright ; and

it would never occur to me to think myself passed over, if he
should change his mind or if the Council of the R. S. should not

I Iagree with him.                    should like best would  be
                                                              be
        will end by saying that what
Ito see you Chairman; and by repeating that, if should

appointed Chairman, your presence or advice would make an

enormous difference in my hopes of usefulness.

Believe me, to remain, Very faithfully yours,

                                     H. J. S. SMITH.

     Pray answer this long letter vivd voce sometime when we meet,
and don't trouble to send a written answer.

     The following letter to Mr W. N. Shaw, of date 1879, doubtless
relates to the Researches on Hygrometry which Mr Shaw carried
out at the request of the Meteorological Council.

                                                    Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

                                                                                    9 August, 1879.

   I fear that any additional information that I have to give you

on the subject of my last letter may now be too late to be of any

Iuse. We had not very definitely discussed the programme of the

experiments, and therefore anything could say would be rather

lacking in authority. Still I may perhaps be able to give you

some better ideas as to what we are aiming at.
     There appears to be a general feeling that the wet bulb ther

mometer is not a satisfactory instrument. Yet it is the one almost

exclusively used for meteorological observations as to the hygro-
metric condition of the air, at least for such as are continuous.

     One objection is that it is liable to fail in frost. But quite
independently of that, it is doubtful how far its indications even
above the freezing-point can be relied on. The most obvious
cause of uncertainty is the presumable influence of a greater or
less rapidity with which the air passes over the surface of the
instrument. We have an instrument at the Meteorological Office
in which a current of air is made by mechanical means to pass
over the surface at a constant rate. A trial how far this may
remove the causes of variation would naturally form one part of
the research. The instrument would be lent you for the purpose
of experiment.

     As the chemical method, though laborious, is presumably the

186 MERITS OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF HYGROMETERS

most accurate, the natural course would seem to be that you
should first practise yourself with it, so as to learn what pre
cautions it might be found necessary to take. Then the form of

hygrometer which appeared next in point of accuracy would
naturally be tried. This perhaps would be Regnault's; or perhaps

Dines's, which has never I believe been thoroughly examined,

might be found as accurate, and would be easier to manipulate.
This might prove to be sufficiently accurate to be referred to as

a standard, at least in provisional experiments, in examining a

hygrometer which is presumably less accurate, such as the wet
Ifcompared with the dry bulb thermometer.
                                                     so, a great deal

of time might be saved by the avoidance of the necessity of

having recourse to a chemical examination at every step.

Then again the hair hygrometer, which is a good deal used

on the Continent, though not in England, should be tried. One

advantage which it claims to have is that of acting equally well

above and below the freezing-point. How far are its indications
Iftrustworthy ?
                 trustworthy, what is the relation between its

indications and the condition of the air? In other words, how

are we to deduce the vapour tension from its reading and that

of the dry bulb thermometer, regarded as two independent

variables ?

   I Ihope that what have mentioned will serve to give you a

general idea of the research we wish to have carried out. In the

conducting of the research, of course a great deal must depend            on
the additional knowledge gained as it progresses.

                            I am, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,

                                    G. G. STOKES.

In July 1880, in consequence of the Tay Bridge disaster, a

Committee was appointed by the Board of Trade to consider and

report upon the question of wind pressure on railway structures,

the members being Sir W. G. Armstrong, W. H. Barlow, Sir J.

Hawkshavv, Prof. Stokes, and Col. W. Yolland, all Fellows of the

Royal Society. Their report is dated May 20, 1881, and was
published as a blue-book. It contains a rider as follows :
       "
goes,     We,  the undersigned, concur in the above   Report so far   as  it
          but  we think the following clause should  be added, viz.
                                                                     :--

The evidence before us does not enable us to judge as to the
lateral extent of the extremely high pressures occasionally recorded
                   and we think     it desirable
by anemometers,  to determine this                   that    experiments
should be made                      question. If     the   lateral extent

WIND PRESSURE ON RAILWAY STRUCTURES            187

of exceptionally heavy gusts should prove to be very small, it

would become a question whether some relaxation might not be
permitted in the requirements of this Report.

                                                            W. G. Armstrong.

                                                            G. G. Stokes.

     The opinion has in fact been widely held that the recommenda
tions of the report, which required a maximum pressure of 56 lbs.
per square foot to be allowed for, with the factor of safety 4, were too
stringent, and that they have involved much unnecessary expense
in structures such as the Forth Bridge. The problem of wind
pressure on structures has recently been taken up at the National
Physical Laboratory, at the instance of the Institution of Mechani

cal Engineers.

From Sir W. G. (afterwards Lord) ARMSTRONG.

                           Newcastle-on-Tyne,

My dear Professor Stokes,  28 March, 1881.

I have received your letter of the 27th.
If the design of the Forth Bridge embraces two central girders
Iclose together, I agree with you that they might be taken as one,

but rather think the width required in that structure involves

Iall the girders being widely separated.

     As a general conclusion think we should go far enough in

the interests of safety if we decided,

1st. That the maximum wind pressure should be taken at

45 lbs. per sq. foot.
     2nd. That in estimating the pressure on inner girders, both

their number and the extent of shelter they derive from each

Iother must be taken into account (as to the value to be assigned

to that shelter for one should be guided by your opinion).
     3rd. That having regard to the extreme rarity of maximum

pressures the factor of safety should be taken at 3 instead of 4.

    I think our decision as to the maximum pressure should be

chiefly based upon the fact that 45 lbs. per foot over an extended
surface would be more than sufficient to overturn an entire train,

and as no entire train ever has been blown over on the most

exposed viaducts, the presumption is that no such wind has ever

operated on the entire length of a viaduct.
     The bare possibility of a still higher wind would be sufficiently

met by the factor of safety, coupled with the fact that such a

188 EXCESSIVE PRECAUTION AGAINST WIND PRESSURE

hurricane would stop all traffic and exempt the bridge from the
strain due to passing trains, which is provided for by our rules.

   If Ithere be not another meeting, or, being one, should be
Iunable to attend, will notify these views to the Secretary, but

shall not press them against the opinion of the majority.

                                                 Very truly yours,

                                                  W. G. ARMSTRONG.

                                                                                          2 May, 1881.

    I have this morning seen Mr John Hawkshaw, who produced

the wind pressure report in an amended form with your initials
affixed. He also showed me your letter in which you expressed

Ia somewhat reluctant concurrence in the clause relating to the

pressure on the secondary girders, but observed that you made
no reference to the more vital question of the maximum pressure
of wind and the factor of safety.

    I have a strong opinion that we were exacting far too much

in requiring a resistance to be provided equal to 56 lbs. per sq.

Ifoot x 4, but if the Committee are agreed upon this point I shall

not stand out alone against the rest. Only should like to know
definitely whether you have accepted the terms of the report in
regard to maximum pressure and factor of safety, as well as in
regard to the question of the pressure on secondary girders.

      1 go to Newcastle to-night and shall be glad of a reply
addressed to me there.

The following letter from Prof. W. H. Miller doubtless relates

to Prof. Stokes' intention of repeating Holtzmann's experiments

on diffraction of polarized light by smoke gratings, which gave
different results from his own ; cf. supra, p. 61, also Math, and

Phys. Papers, II. p. 327.
                                                                     7 Scroope Terrace,

My dear Stokes,  19 Jan. 1867.

              Wheatstone sold his 'Beugungserscheinungen' apparatus,
Russgitters and all, to Talbot, who Wheatstone believes would

be ready to let you have the use of them. They must be easy
to make with such a dividing engine as that which Darker has.

The thermometer-scale dividing engine at Kew, with a very

trifling addition, would, I believe, serve to construct a Russgitter

admirably. That dividing engine carries the tracing-point; this
will not answer your purpose, you must make the plate of glass

      EXPERIENCE WITH DIVIDING ENGINE                               189

moveable, at least such is my opinion ; the tracing-point might

be such as Norremberg uses.

    A rod AB of glass having the tracing-point attached to a bit

of wood C, fastened to the middle of the glass tube ; the glass

tube slides in two Y's, D, E. The tube is pushed and pulled back

wards and forwards by a bit of thin wire, one end of which is

fastened with a bit of sealing-wax or cork to the middle of the

tube inside. The requisite additions might be made to the dividing

Iengine for a few shillings, if you could get it free from thermo
meter work for a day.  have tried Norremberg's mode of tracing

lines and find that it succeeds admirably.

The thermometer divider at Kew has a very long screw, parts

of it may possibly not be good enough for an optical Gitter. The
probability is however strong, that some part of it of sufficient

length may be good enough for the purpose.

                       Very truly yours,

                                   W. H. MILLER.

      To Professor G. QUINCKE of Heidelberg.

                                            Springfield, Tiverton.

My dear Sir,                                5th Sept. 1867.

      I have been indeed remiss in not writing to thank you

Ifor your interesting papers published in Poggendorff 's Annalen,
which I received from time to time.  was particularly interested

in your beautiful experiments on the alteration of phase in

metallic reflection, and in transmission through a metallic film.

As to the paper on the spot in the centre of Newton's Rings, as
Iseen beyond the angle of total internal reflexion, do not at this
Imoment distinctly recollect its contents, and being from home
Ihave not the papers by me to refer to.
                                            do not recollect why
I did not write to you to mention my paper on the subject: it

may have been pressure of work; it may have been laziness or
procrastination ; it may have been dislike to those " reclamations "

that  so indulge in, or all these combined. Be that as it
Imay, as you have kindly expressed an interest in my paper,
have written to a lady whom I left in my house, directing her
Iwhere think she will find some copies of my paper, and requesting
Ifher if she found them to send you one by the book-post.
                                                                    she

190 newton's rings beyond angle or total reflexion

I Icannot find them hope to send you one when return home

about the beginning of October.

   IThe only papers have published on this subject, or subjects
Iclosely connected (so far as at present recollect) are (1) a paper

' On the perfect blackness of the central spot of Newton's Rings,'
Cambridge (or Cambridge and Dublin) Mathematical Journal

(about 1848?)*, and a paper 'On the metallic reflection of light

exhibited by certain non-metallic bodies,' or a title very similar

Ito that in the Philosophical Magazine, think about the same

date-f. In a Library you would probably find the references at
once by turning to my name in Poggendorff 's catalogue. Not

Ihaving access to such books here cannot give them exactly.
   IMany years ago observed a very curious phenomenon relative

to metallic reflection in the case of the central spot of Newton's

Rings, when formed between metal and glass at an angle exceeding
Ithat of total internal reflection.
                                     did not publish an account of

it,    hoping to be able to accompany the account of the phenomenon

      a
by mathematical explanation.  I      made some trials to get a

theory, which found by no means easy, but never tried my
         it,                                     J, I I

              I
best at and other matters caused me to lay the subject aside.
If find that you have not anticipated me,
I                                                                  think  it I  shall

publish an account of my observations, which were merely quali

tative, in the Proceedings of the Royal Society and leave the

explanation to a future effort on the part of whomsoever                        may

please to take  it  up. The phenomenon  is  exceedingly curious as

indicating the existence in the case of metals,  iIf               may so speak,

of an angle of incidence determined by a sine greater than unity,

in the neighbourhood of which the properties as to reflection

rapidly change.
     You ask me as to my views respecting the theory of metallic

reflection, and the exactness of the received formulae as repre

senting the phenomenon.

    In the first place would observe that the priority as to
Jt

                    ;I

                                                                                                                                                a
giving the formulae undoubtedly belongs to MacCullagh. Cauchy's

* Math, and Phys. Papers, n. pp. 56-81 (1848) and 89-103 (1849).                The
   loc. cit. iv. pp. 18-21 (1852) and 38-49 (1853).
  Brit. Assoc. Report, 1876 Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. pp. 361-4.

subject has at length been examined mathematically by Prof. R. C. Maclaurin,

Roy. Soc. Proc., 1905, who finds that the phenomena noticed by Prof. Stokes are

involved in the ordinary theory of metallic reflexion, without any need to make

call upon Airy's property for diamond which is referred to below.

    HISTORY OF THEORY OF METALLIC OPTICAL REFLEXION 191

formulae are nothing but MacCullagh's, reproduced with such

variation of form as any algebraist might make, in transforming
an imaginary expression so as to adapt it to calculation.

    As to the difference in the values of the refractive indices of

metals given by MacCullagh and Cauchy, which Moigno in his

Repertoire d'Optique makes such a work about, that is a mere

question of words. The formulae are got by introducing into
Fresnel's formulae, in lieu of the refractive index, an imaginary

expression, suppose /a (cos + V-- sin yjr), and then treating the
formulae as Fresnel had done in the case of total internal reflection.
                       yjr
                                   yjr
                                                        1
The two constants /i, optically define the metal. The expression
" refractive index " in its ordinary signification has no meaning as

applied to a metal, and we may give the name to any function in

place of (cos + -- sin yjr), provided                         satisfies the condition
      0)

           fi

                              yjr

                            V

                                                      1

                                                          it
f(fi, = p; so that when the metallic properties of the medium

are supposed to vanish continuously, and the medium to diverge

into an ordinary transparent medium, the quantity which we are

pleased to call refractive index shall agree with that previously
so designated in the case of media such as glass, water, &c. Now

MacCullagh chose to take one such function namely [n/coa yjr],
as that to which he gave the name "refractive index," and Cauchy
                                                              *,

                                                                                       's
chose another, namely  Perhaps on the whole Cauchy nomen

clature to be preferred for when, as in your experiments, light
   incident perpendicularly on the surface of a metallic film, the
is                     II ;
              is               a

                   is
constant... that which regulates the change of phase, in the

same manner as the constant yu. the refractive index in the case

of transparent plate.
    a
      MacCullagh left his formulae wholly without physical explana
      (I  say explanation, not interpretation --the interpretation
tion                                                                       is
                                                                                     is
obvious) and in this respect Cauchy certainly made a step in
advance, in showing that they were what would result from intro

ducing into Fresnel's formulae, supposed otherwise established,

the modification arising from very rapid "extinction" or intense

absorption of light on the part of the medium. The strongest

confirmation know of the general truth of this view                                        to be
          ·I
found in some observations made on the nature of light reflected

by crystals of permanganate of potash, described in the paper
in the Phil. Mag. to which have referred.

                       MacCullagh's Collected Papers, p. 132 (Jan. 1837).

192 ADAMANTINE QUALITY IN OPTICAL REFLEXION

The deduction of the formulae from those of Fresnel readily

follows from the principles laid down by O'Brien with reference
to total reflection, in a paper published in the Camb. Trans. To

IEisenlohr's investigation object that he needlessly (needlessly,

if the only object be to deduce the metallic formulae from

Fresnel's formulae) introduces Cauchy's pretended but erroneous
principle of continuity. The principle as used by Cauchy is in

fact obtained by putting together two conclusions which respec

tively result from two mutually exclusive hypotheses as to the

state of things at the boundary of two media.
     Airy's observations showed for diamond, and Jamin's obser

vations have since shown for transparent substances with few

exceptions, that the results of Fresnel's formulae deviate sensibly

from the observed phenomena in the neighbourhood of the polar

izing angle. We should therefore expect & priori that the results

of the metallic formulae deduced from Fresnel's should differ

sensibly from the observed phenomena, more especially as the
deviations in the case of transparent substances are, on the

whole, greatest in the case of dense media, and metals are re
Imarkable for their high specific gravity.
                                            feel curious to know

I Ifwhether you have worked with the central spot of Newton's Rings
under the circumstances have described.         so, you can hardly

fail to have seen the phenomenon.

   If you favour me with a line, will you have the goodness to

tell me (in case you know, but don't trouble yourself to find out
if you don't) whether
                      Professor Magnus is   in  Berlin,  and to  give
Ime his Berlin address? suppose " Berlin     "  simply   would   find

I Ihim.
owe him a letter, am ashamed to say how long, to

thank him for an interesting apparatus he sent me.

             I am, dear Sir, Yours sincerely,

                                            G. G. STOKES.

     The following letter from Sir John Herschel acknowledges the
receipt of the fundamental memoir ' On the communication of
vibrations from a vibrating body to a surrounding gas,' Phil.
Trans. 1868, Math, and Phys. Papers, V. pp. 299 -- 324, in which

the explanation is given of the stifling of the sound of a bell when

immersed in hydrogen, a problem on which Herschel had speculated

(Eucy. Metrop. art. Sound) many years before.

        S\TY       FOR TRANSMISSION OF VIBRATIONS TO AIR                                     193

         OF

CAi :i<WNDÏTIONS

My dear Sir,                                  Coixingwood, Dec, 25, 1868.

       I IMany thanks for your papers.
                                              wish was enough

au fait at these tours d'analyse to follow them, but the facts about

the effects of the lateral movement in diminishing the intensity of

sound are very curious. Your experiment with the tuning-fork is

a capital illustration, taken in conjunction with the fact that when

no obstacle is placed to prevent the lateral movement the sound is

inaudible to an ear placed at 45°.

   I wish geometers would agree and call the function

                                            " dxdydz x 8

                      ///- r

the Integral Proximity of a geometrical solid or material mass to

       is
                    it,

                                      J.
a point without    and so be rid of the notion of force in what

after all a purely abstract geometrical conception.

With the best wishes of the season, believe me

                   Dear Sir, yours very truly,

                                       F. W. HERSCHEL.

The following letter from M. Jacobi, of St Petersburg, refers

to his proposed attendance at the meeting of the British Association

held at Exeter in 1869 under Prof. Stokes' Presidency. The
determination of electric standards, in which the British Association

has taken the leading part, treated as regards its early stages
                             à
from the German point of view in Werner von Siemens' volumela is
                                           à
of Reminiscences.            St Pétersbourg, 16-28 Juin, 1869.

Monsieur, -- J'ai l'honneur de vous faire part que j'ai l'inten

tion d'assister cette année  réunion de l'Association britannique

pour l'Avancement des Sciences                Exeter. J'espère pouvoir                       le à

cette occasion rénouer d'anciens rapports avec quelques illustres

savants de votre pays, et de leur soumettre quelques questions qui

se discutent plus aisément par un échange verbal d'opinions que

par la parole écrite ou imprimée.

     Surtout ai-je l'intention de me mettre en rapport avec
Comité " des étalons électriques " qui existe auprès de l'Association.

s'agira de discuter l'opportunité ou plutôt                                              nécessité indis
le Il

                i.
                              d.

                                     Il

                                                                                    à
                                                                                à

                                                                                     la
pensable, de n'adopter qu'un seul " standard " pour mesurer la

résistance des circuits électriques.          est regretter que déjà dès

début, c. a. dès qu'on avait commencé                                                  reconnaître la né-

s. b.                                                                                    13

194 ON INTERNATIONAL ELECTRIC UNITS

cessité de convenir sur certains "standards" pour la mesure des

phénomènes du courant électrique, que dès le début, une diversité
s'est produite à cet égard qui ne doit pas se perpétuer et contre
laquelle il est de mon devoir de protester. En effet, cette diversité

compromet essentiellement le bût que j'avais en vue en donnant

en 1846 l'initiative à l'introduction d'une unité de mesure pour la
résistance des circuits et en publiant eu 1857 mon mémoire "sur

la nécessité d'exprimer la force des courants électriques et la

résistance des circuits en unités unanimement et généralement
adoptées" (voir Bulletin de la Classe Physico-Mathématique de
l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St Pétersbourg T. xvi.

No. 6 and 7, p. 81). Du reste, il ne sera pas difficile de parvenir à

un accommodement pourvu qu'on mette de côte tout amour propre

national ou personnel. Vous m'obligerez beaucoup, Monsieur, en

employant vos bons offices, pour engager les membres du Comité en

question, de se réunir à Exeter le plus complètement possible, pour
que je puisse soumettre mes propositions à leur jugement éclairé.

     J'ai l'honneur de vous envoyer sous bande quelques exemplaires

d'un rapport " sur la confection des étalons protypes " des poids et

mesures métriques, présenté à l'Académie Imp. des Sciences de

St Pétersbourg dans sa séance du 20 May (1° Juin) par la Com

mission nommée ad hoc. L'Académie ayant adopté les conclusions

de ce rapport, m'a chargé de faire valoir à l'occasion de ma visite
à Exeter, auprès de l'Association britannique, les principes établis
dans ce rapport, dont je vous prie de vouloir bien faire distribuer

les exemplaires aux membres de l'Association qui s'interessent
à l'adoption universelle du système métrique.

     Malgré que j'ai visité votre pays à trois différentes reprises, le

Devonshire est restée pour moi une " terra incognita." Je ne

doute pas que les Officiers de l'Association n'aient pourvu aux
moyens d'indiquer aux étrangers la meilleure route à suivre de
Londres à Exeter pour pouvoir visiter au passage quelques re

marquables points du pays. Il m'importerait d'autant plus

d'avoir quelques renseignements à cet égard, qu'au départ, mon
séjour à Londres sera probablement de trop courte durée pour
pouvoir ne procurer ces renseignements moi-même.

     Veuillez, Monsieur, agréer l'assurance de ma considération très-

distinguée.  M. H. DE JACOBI,

             Membre de l'Académie Impériale des

             Sciences de St Pétersbourg.

history of the science of artillery  195

            Mr Bashforth's Ballistic Investigations.

     In Dec. 1868 the War Office appointed a Committee to inquire

into the ballistic experiments, now universally recognised as

fundamental and classical in the Science of Artillery, that were
conducted by the Rev. F. Bashforth* with his new chronograph.
The following letterf, addressed to the Astronomer Royal, Prof.

J. C. Adams, Prof. Stokes, and Capt. (now Sir) A. Noble, will

explain the circumstances.
      " The Professor of Applied Mathematics to the advanced class

of artillery officers, Woolwich, Rev. F. Bashforth, has reported to
the Secretary of State for War the result of a series of experiments
which he has conducted at the public expense, but with a chrono
graph of his own invention and construction, for the purpose of
determining the law of the resistance of the air to the motion of a
projectile. Mr Bashforth has further represented that the results
obtained are of high scientific importance, involving mathematical
questions of considerable difficulty, and has asked that they may
be referred to mathematicians of eminence for an opinion on their

Iprecision and value. The Secretary of State having acceded with

pleasure to this request, am directed to ask the favour that you
will act as one of the referees, the others applied to being the
gentlemen named in the margin.

     Mr Cardwell desires to be informed by an independent scientific
committee of reference (1), Whether it is now to be considered as
proved that the resistance of the air varies practically as the cube
of the velocity of the shot for all the velocities in use in gunnery,
ranging from 300 to 1,900 feet per second, or for what range of

velocities ; and if not true, whether it is nearer the truth than any

equally simple law before propounded.
      (2) Whether this law of resistance is to be regarded as a new

one, the discovery of which is due to Mr Bashforth.
      (3) Whether the instrument devised and perfected by that

gentleman for recording successive small intervals of time is
susceptible of general employment at schools of instruction in
gunnery.

      (4) Whether any means of solving the same problem with
equal precision existed before.

     Upon the answers to these questions will depend in some
degree the credit due to Professor Bashforth for his public and

     * Mr Bashforth was second wrangler at Cambridge in the year when Prof. Adams
was senior, and had been a fellow of St John's College, of which he is now an

Honorary Fellow.

    t See the official "Reports on Experiments made with the Bashforth Chrono

graph to determine the Resistance of the Air to the motion of Projectiles, 1865-
1870"; Eyre and Spottiswoode, 1870.

                                                                                                     13--2

196 LAW OF AIR-RESISTANCE AT HIGH SPEEDS

private exertions in solving this important problem ; and it is his
desire, as well as that of the Secretary of State, that his claims

to the scientific distinction of having been the first philosopher
to discover, or at least to prove, the true law of resistance so

long sought for, shall rest on the unbiassed decision of competent
mathematicians.

The Secretary of State would wish the referees to agree to the
tenor of a general answer to  each of                                will
be happy to receive separate  reports,  the above    questions, but  the
                                                     or opinions on
                                        if desired,

general question from other points of view."

On March 11 following the Astronomer Royal sent the follow

ing letter retiring from the Committee :

" My difficulties are much increased by the wide geographical

Iseparation from my colleagues.   should be          gIladthiinfkyothuatwoifulidt
                               Commission.
     Under these circumstances
sanction my retiring from the
were understood that Professor Stokes is the leader, he would with

advantage (particularly from his proximity of residence to Professor
Adams) enter upon the philosophical points, which are nearly
related to his favourite studies, and there would be good prospect
of a result beneficial to science."

     The report of the Committee, of which a first long draft exists
in the handwriting of Prof. Stokes and Prof. Adams, was finally
sent in on April 18, 1870, and occupies pp. 155 -- 161 of the
volume quoted above. The following extracts give the tenour of

the report:

"Between October 1867 and May 1808, Professor Bashforth
made a most valuable series of experiments with elongated shot
of different diameters, the charges being varied so as to give
a much greater range of velocities than in his earlier experiments.
The object of these experiments was to determine whether the
resistance of the air might be assumed to be proportional to the
cube of the velocity for all practical velocities of the shot, and also
whether it varies exactly as the square of the diameter.

The results showed that while for moderate variations of
velocity, such as those met with in the same round, the resistance
may be taken to vary as the cube of the velocity, yet for con
siderable variations of velocity this law
                                           no  longer holds good  ; and
that if for convenience the resistance     be  still represented  by an

expression of the form cv2, the co-efficient c must be taken to vary
continuously with the velocity. The experiments showed the
values of the co-efficient c of resistance, corresponding to values
of the velocity ranging from 850 to 1,600 feet per second. The
co-efficient is found to attain a maximum value for a velocity of
about 1,200 feet per second. Professor Hélie's value of the co

THE VELOCITY OF SOUND CRITICAL IN ARTILLERY  197

efficient of resistance is found to be true only for velocities in the
neighbourhood of 950 feet per second.

     Between the beginning of May 1868 and the beginning of the
following November, Professor Bashforth carried out similar
experiments with spherical shot, in which the velocities observed
varied from 1,000 to 2,100 feet per second. The co-efficient of
resistance is of course very different in the case of spherical shot
from the value corresponding to the same velocity in elongated shot.

     In this case also the co-efficient appears to attain a maximum
value for a velocity of about 1,200 feet per second, but it falls off
very considerably for the higher velocities. The resistance for the
same velocity was found to vary very accurately as the square of

the diameter, both for spherical and elongated shot *.
     We consider that these experiments of Professor Bashforth

are admirably planned and that the results obtained are very
valuable.

    In conclusion we would beg to recommend that for the purpose

of rendering our experimental knowledge of the resistance of the
air more complete, an additional series of experiments should be
made with Mr Bashforth's chronograph, on spherical projectiles
moving with smaller velocities than those which occur in his
previous experiments. The results would greatly add to the
theoretical interest and value of those which have been already

obtained."

                      BRITISH ASSOCIATION.

     Prof. Stokes was President of the British Association at the

Exeter meeting in 1869. It had been hoped to obtain for that

occasion some prominent scientific man connected with the West
of England : the Association were, however, disappointed in

securing either Prof. J. C. Adams or Mr Fox Talbot, and in

response to an intimation that "the unanimous opinion of the

Council indicated yourself as the Physicist to be applied to in the
event, which has now occurred, of the two local men of science

beiug both of them disinclined to accept" he placed himself at
their disposal, and devoted himself with his usual energy to the
task. For very many years he was a regular attendant at the
meetings of the Association, and there were few active Committees

on the Physical side whose work was not influenced by him.

    * It may be remarked that the method of dimensions, as applied in similar

cases by Siokes (Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. p. 106, 1881) and by Rayleigh
[Phil. Mag. 1905 (1), p. 494), shows that for bodies of the same shape and of linear
dimension (, the total resistance must vary as Ppv*f («/f0), where p is the density
and v0 the velocity of sound in the gas. This is on the hypothesis that dimen
sional considerations apply in cases of turbulent motion, of which the result in the
text is thus a confirmation ; cf. under Osborne Reynolds, infra.

198 FEUITFULNESS OF DISCUSSION AND CONFERENCE

On a previous occasion, Cambridge 18G2, when he was

President of the Mathematical and Physical section, his friend

Prof. W. H. Miller directing the Chemical section, he delivered

what is probably the shortest introductory address on record in

the following words : --

    " It has been customary for some years, in opening the business

of the Section, for the President to say a few words respecting the
object of our meetings. In this Section, more perhaps than in
any other, we have frequently to deal with subjects of a very
abstract character, which in many cases can be mastered only by

patient study, at leisure,   of what has been written.     The question
may not unnaturally be                                     this kind can
                            asked -- If investigations of

Ibest be followed by quiet study in one's own room, what is the use
of bringing them forward in a sectional meeting at all ?   believe

that good may be doue by public mentiou, in a meeting like the
present, of even somewhat abstract investigations ; but whether
good is thus doue, or the audience are merely wearied to no
                                            of   the
purpose, depends   upon the judiciousness       must  person by whom
the investigation   is brought forward.    It          be remembered

that minute details cannot be followed in an exposition vivd voce ;
they must be studied at leisure ; and the aim of an author should

be to present the broad leading ideas of his research, and the
                       at
principal conclusions       which he has arrived, clearly and briefly
before the Section.    It   is then possible to discuss the subject-

matter; to offer suggestions of new lines of experiment, or new

combinations of ideas ; and such discussions and suggestions, it
seems to me, are among the most important business of a meeting
such as this. Any one who has worked in concert with another
zealously engaged in the same research must have felt the benefit
arising from the mutual interchange of ideas between two different
minds. Suggestions struck out by one call up new trains of
thought and fructify in the mind of another ; whereas they might
have remained barren and unfruitful in the mind of the original

suggester. The benefit of cooperation is by no means confined to
the carrying out, according to a preconcerted plan, of a research
involving labour rather than invention ; it is felt in a most

delightful form in the prosecution of original investigations. In

a meeting like the present, we have the benefit of the mutual
suggestions, not of two, but of many persons, whose minds are
directed to the same object. The number of papers already in the

Ihands of your Secretaries shows that there will be no lack of

matter in this Section : the difficulty will rather, apprehend, be

I Ito get through the business before us in the time prescribed. On

this account the Section will, hope, bear with me if should

sometimes feel myself compelled, in justice to the authors of
papers which are placed later on our lists, to cut short discussions
which otherwise might have been further prolonged with some

interest."

ACTIVITY AT THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION  199

      This parsimony was in fact demanded by the necessities of the

occasion. Among the papers contributed by eminent men to the

Proceedings of the section were :--Capillary Attraction by Mr F.

Bashforth, On the Differential Equations of Dynamics by Prof.

Boole, On a Geometrical Mechanism by Dr Booth, two papers on
Twisted Curves by Mr Cayley, On Quaternions by Sir W. Rowan
Hamilton, On Pedal Surfaces by Dr Hirst, On the Forms of Waves

by Prof. Macquorn Rankiue ; astronomical papers by Challis,
Hennessy, Lassell, R. Main, Pogson, Spottiswoode, Claudet; on
Rotatory Polarization in Crystals by A. des Cloizeaux ; papers by

Croll, Esselbach, C. Tomlinson, J. Ball, F. Galton, J. H. Gladstone,
J. Glaisher, E. J. Lowe, R. Mallet, G. J. Symons, James Thomson,

and many others.
     But the absence of an address was amply atoned for by the

presentation by Prof. Stokes of his Report on Double Refraction,
which for so long a period remained the authoritative expo
sition of the progress of the Dynamics of Physical Optics and of

the state of the problems then demanding solution. In the same

year Cayley presented his second Report on Special Problems of
Dynamics. The previous Cambridge Meeting in 1845, at which
he expounded his explanation of the Aberration of Light by an
irrotationally moving aether, had imposed on Mr Stokes the task of
producing his other important Report on Recent Researches in

Hydrodynamics, which was published the following year, as also
Mr R. L. Ellis' Report on Recent Progress in Analysis.

     At the meeting at Exeter in 1869, Prof. Sylvester presided

over the Mathematical and Physical Section, and delivered the
well,known eloquent address on the claims and privileges of
Abstract Mathematics. Among readers of papers in the section

were W. K. Clifford on the Theory of Distance, R. B. Hayward
on the Equations of Dynamics, F. W. Newman (three papers),
Rankine, W. H. L. Russell, R. Main (three papers), Neumayer,

T. R. Robinson, Tait on Comets, C. Brooke, J. H. Gladstone,
Janssen, Jellett on Optical Chemistry, Morren, G. J. Stoney,

Magnus on Emission, Absorption, and Reflexion of Obscure Heat*,

Symons, J. Glaisher, B. Stewart, J. P. Gassiot, J. W. Strutt, and

many others.

     * In this paper the priority of Balfour Stewart is remarked, " who, ten years
ago, and several years before Kirchhoff and Bunsen had propounded their theory,
published a paper in which he developed nearly the same ideas for heat as these
philosophers did for light."

200 EARLY HISTORY OF RESEARCH ON OPTICAL GLASS

                IMPROVEMENT OF TELESCOPES.

     For a long series of years Prof. Stokes devoted much time
to advising and assisting Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt, who had
begun as early as 1834 a series of experimental researches devoted
to the improvement of glass for optical purposes. The history of
Prof. Stokes' collaboration was sketched by him at the British

Association meeting at Edinburgh in 1872*. It seems that, at

the Cambridge meeting in 1862, Mr Harcourt placed some of his
prisms in Prof. Stokes' hands, with a view to his tracing out any
connexion there might be between their fluorescent properties and
their chemical constitution, which was of course exactly known.
Prof. Stokes was able incidentally to determine their dispersive
powers with more accuracy than had seemed possible. "This
inquiry being in furtherance of the original object of the experi
ments, seemed far more important than that as to fluorescence,
and caused Mr Harcourt to resume his experiments with the
liveliest interest, an interest which he kept up to the last." Then,

Ireferring to the advantages arising from co-operation f, he goes on

to say, " do not think either of us working separately could have

obtained the results we arrived at by working together." It is

difficult to resist the impression, from reading this notice of his
friend's work and his own, and from turning over the voluminous
correspondence to which it gave rise, that the imperfect appliances
at Mr Harcourt's disposal and the consequent poor quality and
striation of the glass produced, probably prevented a great step
in advance in the provision of optical appliances, which was not
to be achieved until the subject was resumed by Abbe and his
coadjutors, with organised practical co-operation on an industrial
scale, at Jena many years afterwards.

    A methodical notebook exists, containing a great mass of

entries of determinations relating to compensation of dispersions
of glasses and solutions made by Prof. Stokes during 1864 -- 6.
The following extracts will give an indication of the contents:

Experiments on influence of different substances on irrationality of

                                                 dispersion.

      Method. Two hollow prisms of 45° were procured from Ladd.

A standard solution of one salt was prepared, and then the

strength of other solutions was adjusted so that they should

                   * Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. iv. pp. 339-343.

               t He refers to the remarks on this subject on p. 198, supra.

EXPERIMENTS ON CHROMATIC COMPENSATION  201

achromatize the standard when the two opposing prisms were

placed each at the minimum deviation.
     Experiments commenced 10th Feb. 1866. Light from sky

near sun. Standard solution used, 1 part by weight of common
salt to 5 parts of water. Broad slit and collimating lens on plank,
standard placed in hollow prism A.

     1. CaCl solution : slightly green-refracting to standard ;

secondary spectrum just perceptible.
     2. NaC : green : decidedly more so than last. N.B. Had to

be heated to cause enough to dissolve, and after some time a

portion began to crystallize.
     3. HC1 : green : more so apparently than the last. N.B. Had

to be diluted to perhaps 3 times the volume to bring down the
dispersion so as to match the standard.

     4. NaS dispersion too weak even when almost saturated.
     13th Feb. 1866. In trying N06 diluted with 2 or 3 volumes of

Iwater the cement gave way. Therefore to-day re-cemented with

bees' wax, tying on the sides for security, and prepared several
additional solutions. The following are the results of the com

parisons: -- ...

                     Observations with Compensating Prisms.

     Commenced for good Dec. 6th, 1864. At first the slit was

used without any collimating lens or lens in connexion with the
prisms ; the prisms placed at as large a distance as the room
would conveniently allow, and the secondary spectrum viewed
through an achromatic telescope, care being taken that the pencil
on the object-glass was as nearly centrical as might be. Afterwards
a 44 inch focus lens was used at 6 or 8 feet distance from the slit,

the prisms were placed close to the lens, and the spectrum viewed
through a detached eye-piece (my lowest) with its focus at the
conjugate focus. This was only tried for a few observations.
Then the same lens was used as a collimator, and the achromatic

telescope, with its deepest eye-piece unless the contrary is stated,
was used for viewing the spectrum.

     The first column gives the prism used and its angle, the next
the composition of the compensating compound prism. The flint
glass angles are written above, the crown-glass angles below.
The unit is the angle ordered (1°20') but in the calculation the
measured angles are employed. The two flint glass prisms having

202 COMMUNICATION OF RESULTS TO PROF. ABBE

angles as ordered of 13£ units each, and as measured of 1044',
1039', are denoted the first by 14 the second by 13.

     The angles used negatively are denoted by their numbers with

a -- written above. The order of the angles is from without

inwards, i.e. towards the prism examined. Unless the contrary

be stated the compensating prism was placed next the eye. The

prism examined was placed at the minimum deviation, and the
compound prism was so built up that the achromatism effected
by it should be found near its minimum deviation

           Mineral Department, British Museum,

My dear Prof. Stokes,      Jan. 25, 1875.

           IBefore Christmas put in your hand a little paper

of Professor Abbe's, of Jena, treating of a method of determining

the refraction of various kinds of bodies.

   IBut I do not think explained to you --as I thought it would

be explained in his letter accompanied by a translation by my

friend Lettsom --that he wants your help in getting access to

what you have published about the kinds of glass that are best
Iffitted for correcting lenses in the matter of colour.
                                                         you should

happen to have a copy of your report on Mr Harcourt's glass

Iexperiments, or could in any other form put the Professor at Jena

on the track of what has been done, am confident he would much

appreciate your doing so.

           Believe me to be very truly yours,

                            NEVIL STORY MASKELYNE.

           To Prof. E. WIEDEMANN.

                           Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

Dear Sir,                  22 Feb., 1879.

        IOn my return from London last night found the printed
Inotice of my paper*, which is possibly still in proof, and which

return with one or two remarks.

    It is not so much that the images given by a pair of imperfect

prisms are better than the spectral images that they show, that

     * Perhaps for the BeibUitter. The paper is in Roy. Soc. Proc. xxvir. June, 1878,
reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers, v. pp. 40-51. The method was invented for

dealing with Mr Harcourt's imperfect experimental glasses.

        SIMPLE TEST OF ACHROMATISM BY SECONDARY COLOUR 203

renders a pretty good measure of the ratio of their dispersions

possible, as that any one-sidedness of distribution of colour arising

from the prisms not achromatising each other is capable of being

perceived even in somewhat imperfect images.

    Even if you can get prisms of thoroughly good glass, the

ordinary method requires extreme accuracy in the angular

measurements to get the ratio of the dispersions with sufficient

accuracy. The convenience of my method as applied to good

glasses, such as those that would be used for an achromatic object-

glass, is that it dispenses with any very great accuracy in the

angular measurements that are required.

    I have marked a passage in pencil with the number 2 because

there are of course two secondary colours, a green and a purple,

and not one alone. However the two are mentioned almost imme

diately afterwards, so that it does not signify.            The one

   I have to thank you for two papers received lately.

on the measurement of the temperature of the electric discharge
in gases interesting me particularly. It
                                          however, to my mind
                                          is,
                                                       it,
by no means conclusive, for this reason. The calorimeter, asI

understand, was composed of glass and transparent liquids. There

fore the luminous rays would pass freely through and the same
would probably be true for portion of the ultra-red rays. Now
        I
                        a
                             a
it      conceivable, and think very probable, that during the brief
    is

time that the gas was glowing good portion of the heat passed
off in the shape of radiation sufficiently refrangible to pass
through the calorimeter, and consequently to give no indication of

its existence.        right, would be interesting to repeat the
                      I is
   If my supposition
                                 it
experiment, guarding against this source of error.

                      am, dear Sir, yours sincerely,

                                          G. G. STOKES.

     At the meeting of the British Association at Belfast, in 1874,
Prof. Stokes exhibited a telescope of 2£ inches aperture and
21 inches focal length, the triple objective of which had been
fashioned by Howard Grubb, and demonstrated the absence in
of secondary as well as primary dispersion though of course the
striation of the glasses, arising merely from imperfect manufacture,

prevented the performance of the telescope from being good in

other respects.
                                          ;

                                                                        it

204 ACTIVITY IN THE DESIGN OF GREAT TELESCOPES

     At the Bristol meeting in the following year he reported that,
having secured the collaboration of Dr John Hopkinson, then
connected with Messrs Chance, the glass manufacturers of
Birmingham, he had tested whether the theoretical indications
which pointed to a mixture of tartaric acid being effective in
silicic as well as in phosphatic glass were confirmed, and had

obtained a negative result.
     These notes have been reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers,

Vol. IV. pp. 356 --360; taken along with the previous report of

1871 they form all that was published on the subject.
     From this time, and previously, Prof. Stokes, in association at

first with Dr Romney Robinson, took much interest in the great
enterprises in the construction of telescopes that were building up
a world-wide reputation of the optical firm of Thomas Grubb and
Son, of Dublin ; and a voluminous correspondence with the mem
bers of the firm was kept up, lasting from 1869 to 1887. One of
the problems to be settled at this period was the delicate question
whether the impossibility of obtaining homogeneous discs, free
from striation and internal strain, for the great Vienna Telescope,
should lead to the abandonment of its construction.

     Judging by the masses of minute numerical computations
relating to the design of objectives that exist among his papers,
Prof. Stokes must have experienced much delight in contributing
his insight and experience to forwarding the great task of pro
viding the material means for the continued triumphal advance of

astronomical science.

     When the question of a new telescope for photographic
purposes came before the Cambridge Observatory Syndicate in
1892, and the experiment of trying a new plan was decided upon,
it came as a surprise on some of the junior members of the
Syndicate to notice the quiet and magisterial way in which Prof.
Stokes virtually took charge of the whole problem, no step being
thought of without his written report or reasoned opinion, always
delivered with deference but with an air of familiarity and confi
dence, of which the origin was not then known to some of his

colleagues.

UNIFORM CURVATURE ESSENTIAL IN OPTICAL SURFACES 205

                  To Mr THOMAS GRUBB, F.R.S.

My dear Sir,                            Cambridge, April 5, 1871.

            A truly spherical speculum of a mile focus, or even

considerably less, would do perfectly well for testing an object-

glass as to spherical aberration.       The aberration in a truly
spherical surface of such radius would be quite insensible. It is

the deviation of the surface from what it professes to be that we

have to fear, a deviation of such character as to make the radius

of curvature at the edge slightly different from what it is at the

centre.                                                                         the distance

     With a speculum of 15 in. aperture and a mile f.
                                        t
                                                                           l.,
between the surface near the edge and the tangent plane at the

middle point      0-0002220 in. (= say). But the aberration                                a is
                  is

                            t'
nothing like what would be produced by a surface-error of the
Ifsame amount.
                                be the distance at the edge between the

surface of the speculum, assumed to be an ellipsoid of revolution,

and its sphere of curvature at the vertex, andis                                have such

                                                 if

                                                        t'
value as to produce the same aberration that occasioned by the

spherical form in surface of miles radius, find
                  t' a              2   I

                        = 0-00000000000003889 in.,

which shows how enormously telling a surface-error of this kind                            is

compared with what results from the surface being ground to a

slightly wrong curvature*.

   don't suppose                    possible to construct surface               priori
I                 it                    is
                         it                              a
Ifsufficiently true to be trusted.                                     d

                                                                          it

                                                                                       is
                                        a speculum be used, the plan

will be to grind plane or flatly curved, test it, and repolish till

the test    is    satisfied. The difficulty to find a suitable test, the

point to be tested not being whether the surface be plane or

gently curved (that             is  of little consequence) but whether

uniformly plane or curved, so as to give reflected images free from

spherical aberration.               it  might be tested (theoretically at

   If the mirror be concave

least) by placing a luminous point at or nearly at the centre of

curvature, and examining whether the reflected image was free

* For       is aspeculum, the difference of optical paths, to which the spherical

aberration        proportional, is twice the distance from the edge of the speculum

to the osculating aplanatic spheroid corresponding to the actual conjugate foci.

Change of curvature uniform all over merely alters the focus.

206 TEST FOR LARGE SPECULUM OF LONG FOCUS

from spherical aberration. But on account of the great distance
involved, this would involve great steadiness of air, and inde
pendently of that would probably be very inconvenient.

     The speculum, whether plane or gently concave or convex,
might be tested by means of a speculum known to be parabolic,
or an object-glass known to be free from spherical aberration, the
speculum or objective used for testing being of a size comparable
with the speculum to be tested.

For this purpose arrange as in the figures, 8 being the plane

Por nearly plane speculum to be tested, the parabolic speculum,

O the object-glass if a refractor be used. Place a luminous point

nearly in the focus of the parabolic mirror, or the objective as the
case may be, and examine the image reflected first from P, then
Pfrom S, then from
                    again, or else refracted through O, reflected

upon S, and refracted again through O. The image and object
Ifwill of course nearly coincide.
                                   the surface of S be true, the
Ifimage ought to be free from spherical aberration.
Ifaulty, it can, presume, be corrected by repolishing.  it prove

When once a true surface has been obtained, it may be used

for testing an objective just as the objective was used for

Itesting it.            Imade at Armagh, think the most con
     From rough trials

venient luminous point would be obtained by means of a small

right-angled prism combined with a glass bead or microscopic

objective of short focus, reflecting light coming through a hole

illuminated by the sun or a lamp. The return image t would be
seen by the aid of a small obliquity. With the parabolic mirror

P a small reflector would be required to throw the return image

sideways for examination.

   FLEXURE AND CHROMATIC ABERRATION                      207

If S be convex, of true surface, and of f. 1. F, an objective

made right by means of it would be right for an artificial star at
distance 2F, and if this be as good as infinite, in its effect on
Ifspherical aberration, the objective will be right for a star.
                                                                 ;S

be concave, of f. 1. F, the error of an objective made right by means

of it would be the same in magnitude as, but of opposite sign to,

the error of an objective made right for an artificial star at

distance 2F, which may be disregarded under the same conditions

as Jbefore.

     The surface of the speculum S would require to be as true as,

but not truer than, that of an ordinary speculum. The difference

between a sphere and a paraboloid for a f. 1. anything like what you

propose would be quite insensible. If you could reckon on grind
ing the surface spherical the thing is done ; if not, the only greater

difficulty attending S than attending an ordinary speculum con

sists, I presume, in the greater difficulty of testing. The speculum

S would of course require to be supported in the experiment

a
      a
            it,

                                 is

                                               it

                                            I
of testing or when tested using for testing, as carefully as

that of telescope, though as the imperfection of image produced

by slight flexure altogether different in character from
spherical aberration, a slight flexure would probably not much
interfere with its use.

The same method might be used for testing the correction for

chromatic aberration, but the simple test gave you depending

on the observation of the secondary green, which should be about

midway between green and yellow, would probably be found better

for that purpose.

By rights the luminous point should be placed at such              aa

distance from the objective that its image should be at the same
distance, but may be moved little nearer to or further from
   it

                                    a
                                                      a
the objective without making any sensible difference.

      The mercury or speculum plan has the advantage of not
requiring calculation, but perhaps after all the best and simplest

plan would be to turn the objective on to test object (such as
watch dial) at a considerable though finite distance, cover the
objective by a screen leaving exposed a central circle, focus, then

cover all but an annulus and focus again, and compare the shifting
of the eye-piece with the calculated difference of foci, supposing

the object-glass were right for a star.

I  don't believe, however, that this would be a very sharp test.

208 UTILITY OF HARCOURT'S OPTICAL GLASSES

       Correspondence with Prof. NEWCOMB.

Dear Sir,                        Washington, October 16, 1872.

          I have been much interested in your paper read before

the British Association on achromatic combinations of glass, but

am disappointed to perceive, from the abstract in Nature, that it

can hardly be employed in large glasses, owing to the depth of

curves required.

   IAs am much interested in this subject, will you excuse t. .i
Iliberty take in inquiring whether you know anything of a com^

bination proposed by Schroder of Hamburg, of which one of the

components is a magnesium glass ?

           Yours very respectfully,

                                   SIMON NEWCOMB.

Dear Sir,                        Cambridge, 28th October, 1872.

       It is true that if we aim at destroying completely the

Isecondary dispersion by means of the glasses which the late
Mr Vernon Harcourt and      have investigated, rather severe

curvatures have to be encountered, but if we consent to a

triple objective in lieu of the ordinary double, we shall not require
stronger curvatures than in the ordinary double. To get a power

of the combination = 2, we require with a crown-flint double the

following powers approximately,

           crown + 5, flint -- 3,

whereas in the Harcourt glasses we should require, in order to

get the same combination-power 2, separate powers of + 7, -- 5,

respectively, very nearly. But if we consent to use a triple,

employing two lenses made of the substitute for crown glass

instead of one only of greater power, we may arrange the powers

as + 5, -5, +2,

or as      + 4, -- 5, + 3,

so that the highest power of any lens is not greater than with the

ordinary crown-flint double. Or if we demand that the double

form be retained and the curvatures not increased, the demand

may be met if we consent to an increase of focal length of say
Ifrom 11£ to 15 apertures.
                            should, however, rather be in favour

          DESIGN OF TRIPLE TELESCOPIC OBJECTIVE                 209

of using a triple, for with modern improvements I don't suppose

the centring would occasion much difficulty. The cost of the

|objective no doubt would be or so that of an ordinary double,

even if the substitute for crown glass could be made as cheaply
as crown glass itself, which it could not ; but the cost of mount

ing, depending on the focal length, would be the same.

   I have worked out a number of triple forms, in which the

spherical and chromatic aberrations are destroyed, consistently
with the condition that the adjacent surfaces shall fit, so as to

permit of cementing.

The ordinary crown-flint double, when made to fit, has

approximately the curvatures

                        + 1, + 1 ; -1,0,

or say                   + 6, + 6 ; -- 6, 0.

IThe triple fitting form, made from the new glasses, which am

- -disposed to prefer, has approximately the curvatures
                               + 4, + 6 ; 6, 3 ; + 3, + 2.

     Messrs Chance, of Birmingham, are engaged in an experiment

Ion the preparation of titanic glass on a convenient scale.
     For practical purposes it would be best, imagine, not to

aim at the complete destruction of the irrationality, but leave
a little, which would permit of having a greater difference

between the substitute for crown and the low flint (or substitute
for flint) as regards dispersive power, which would give lower

curvature. Yet even if we do aim at complete destruction, the

Icurvature with a triple would, as have remarked, not be stronger

than with an ordinary double.

M. Schroeder was so good as to send me a prism of the

magnesian glass. According to my measurements the glass went

a little, but only a very little, way towards meeting flint glass in

point of irrationality.  Yours respectfully,

                                       G. G. STOKES.

          CELESTIAL SPECTROSCOPY.

     About this time (1867) the application of the telescope to the
spectroscopy of the Heavens on a large scale was initiated by

Dr (now Sir W.) Huggins, for whom suitable instrumental equip-

s. b. i.                                                    14

210 UTILITY OF APERTURE

ment as regards the telescope was procured by the Royal Society,
being placed in his hands on loan when it had been found that
he was reluctant to become the absolute owner of it. The

succeeding letter, of earlier date, from Sir John Herschel, relates

to an eclipse expedition in which his son, now Colonel J. Herschel,

F.R.S., took a prominent part.

To Dr (now Sir W.) HUGGINS.

                              Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

My dear Sir,             Dec. 8/68.

                 With reference to a proposal likely before long to

come before the Council of the Royal Society, I should be glad
to know if you approve of the following statement, and have

anything to add to it.

What is the advantage to be gained by a large aperture in a

telescope designed to be used in the spectroscopic observation of

the celestial bodies ?

     (1) In the case of the stars aperture is everything. The
total quantity of light we have to work by varies as the aperture.

With a larger aperture, not only would the spectra of the brighter

stars admit of being studied with greater precision and detail,

but a field of research would be thrown open in the case of

smaller stars which at present can hardly be attacked. It would

thus too become possible to study separately and with precision

the components of a double star. It would be very interesting to

compare, and that in many instances, the components  of such stars.
                                                     with objects
    (2) In the case of nebulae we have to deal       the intrinsic
of finite size, and consequently have to consider

brightness of the image. As this is not altered by increasing

aperture and focal length in the same proportion, it might seem

at first sight as if aperture were a matter of indifference. But

practically the breadth of many of those objects is so small that

the spectrum is most inconveniently narrow. The apparent

breadth can only be increased either by increasing the magnifying
power of the little telescope belonging to the spectroscope or by

increasing the focal length of the principal telescope, and in both

cases with loss of intensity unless (in the 2nd case) the increase
of aperture keep pace with the increase of focal length.

    If the nebula be so small as to make it desirable to use the

IN CELESTIAL SPECTROSCOPY                                     211

cylindrical lens, it may for the present purpose be regarded as

a star.

     The nucleus of a comet may for the present purpose be treated

as a star or a nebula, according to its angular breadth, but if the

cylindrical lens be used the spectrum of the nucleus will be mixed
with that of the comet.

                                                         Yours very truly,

                                                          G. G. STOKES.

                                                COLLINGWOOD,

My dear Sir,                  in spectroscopy    May 5/67.
                                                as applied to
        I have no experience

I Ilights feebler than those of phosphorescent bodies, and from the

trials have made on these should have felt disposed to believe

it impossible to discern lines in spectra formed by lights much

Ifeebler. As regards the effect of large aperture in a telescope as

a means of concentrating light, confess myself at a loss to
reconcile what seems to be the result of Mr Huggins's and Father

Secchi's experience on Nebulae with the undoubted optical pro

position that the intrinsic illumination of a surface cannot be
Iincreased by any application of telescopic power.
                                                    mean that

the luminosity of the focal image (what the American astronomers
call its "albedo") is necessarily somewhat inferior to that of the
object. And as it is a narrow slip of that image whose light has

to be analysed, I cannot see in what manner telescopic vision,

when the object has a sensible superficial or angular magnitude,

can be of any use at all.                       There it is not the
     With the image of a star it is otherwise.

intrinsic albedo but the total light which is analysed, and that

may be increased telescopically to any extent.

   IThe red flames however have a very sensible angular breadth --

quite that of any useful slit -- and Iconfess should be very much

disposed to try a long tube without an object-glass, closed by a

screen with a narrow slit so as to be directed at a tangent to the

sun's disc wherever the flames happened to be, and to examine

that slit spectroscopically by whatever means and appliances

should have been found available in other cases.

    The same mode of observation would, I am inclined to think,

be available for comparing spectroscopically the light of the

extreme border of the limb of the sun itself with that of the

                                                    14--2

212 CONSIDERATIONS ON SOLAR SPECTROSCOPY

central portion (without waiting for an eclipse) -- choosing the

time for observation that when the sun is on the meridian. In

this case the slit should be the very narrowest scratch which

could be ruled on a black-varnished glass, or something as narrow

formed by metal edges, approached by a fine screw. For the

flames it would require to be wider.

Possibly, too, the red flames may after all not be such very

feeble lights ; they may have many hundred or thousand times
more "albedo" than a candle flame. If so they would assuredly
Ifgive observable spectra in this way*.  not, I confess my own

inability to perceive how a telescope (quoad telescope, i.e. other

wise than as an instrument for securing steady vision and exact

direction) can help the observation. If it does, it does ; but in a

Imode to me at present incomprehensible f.

        will write to the Astronomer Royal about
I                                                                                                 however, as

                                              J.

                                             I
                                                                                             it,
  have no prospect of being able to see him at Greenwich, and let

you know what he thinks of the question unless he should prefer
to communicate with you direct. Meanwhile remain,

            Dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                                      F. W. HERSCHEL.

t            Correspondence with Sir G. B. AIRY.
         :
     The close relations between Sir George Stokes and the Green
wich Observatory, through his activity in the organisation and
reduction of geodetic surveys by pendulums and by triangulation,
as well as in the practical optical improvement of telescopes -- not
to mention close agreement in scientific tastes -- naturally led to
extensive correspondence with Sir George Airy. To this con
nexion Stokes' office as Secretary of the Royal Society, and his
position for a long series of years as one of the most active
members of the Board of Visitors of the Observatory, contributed
much while in the two years of Airy's Presidency of the Royal
Society, the novelty to him of the questions that arose, coming
on the top of his strenuous and multifarious activities at the
Observatory, and of advancing age, naturally made him lean

     * The discovery that they do so, under high dispersion so as to dilute the
background of sky-light, was made independently by Janssen and by Lockyer
in connexion with this eclipse.

          See the preceding letter.

RELATIONS WITH SIR GEORGE AIRY  213

extensively on Stokes' help and counsel. Long habit of official

correspondence has perhaps imparted a somewhat formal air to
his letters to Stokes, and most of them are strictly confined
to business ; but a respect for exalted abilities and attainments,

which was mutual, shines through them all. A valuable scientific

correspondence is reprinted in the second volume.
     The strong views held by Sir George Airy, in favour of strenuous

effort to maintain the mathematical course at Cambridge in as

close touch as possible with the requirements of mechanical and

physical science, led him about 1868 to devote some of his few
spare moments to promoting practically this cause. His contri

bution took the form of a textbook of the Theory of Sound. In
the course of his preparations for it he came across Sir George

Stokes' classical investigation of the circumstances which deter
mine the communication of the motion from the vibrator to the

atmosphere. In the attempt to find an illustrative case for a

spherical vibrator that would work out in small compass, he hit
upon the sectorial harmonic of type xy. His thirty years' masterful
preoccupation with the business of the national Observatory, on
whose history he has left so great a mark, had however left him
rusty on such questions of analysis, which indeed had been first
effectively grappled with by Stokes himself ; he was for example
puzzled at adapting the solution to the inside of a hollow bell

without introducing infinities at the centre. A detailed corre

spondence with Stokes ensued, alternating between admiration for
the lucid demonstrations of his master in physical analysis, as he
called him, and further requests to put things in a way such that
one not conversant with them could directly grasp their essence.

                                                                   Greenwich, Feb. 22, 1868.

    My dear Sir--I received last evening your letter of 20th, in

which you advert to the present feeling in the University regard
ing the Smith's Prizes, and request the expression of any strong

Iopinion on the subject that I may entertain.
         will allude to their presumed origin, and to the advantage

of maintaining them.

    I am not acquainted with the history of the foundation of the
Prizes, but I remark that Dr Smith, the author of the Harmonics

and the Optics, was eminently the promoter of Applied Mathe
matics in his day. Looking at this, and at the title (derived,

214 UTILITY OF THE SMITH'S PRIZES AT CAMBRIDGE

I Ibelieve, from his will) which they have always borne, scarcely

doubt that they were partly intended as a corrective to a spirit of

too exclusively pure mathematics.

    In receiving my opinion on the advantage of keeping up the

Iinstitution in something like the original form --(in which, if

   am not mistaken, a separate examination is expressly required

Iby Dr Smith's will, and is made the condition of a grant to

the Plumian Professor) -- must ask the representatives of the

University to accept my commendations of the merits of the

I IUniversity system, and, for their sake, to give some indulgence
to my remarks on what think to be defects.  do say then that
I regard the University as the noblest school of mathematical

education in the world. And, in spite of the injury that is done

by a too mechanical use of analysis, it is the most exact. There

is no accuracy of teaching like that of Cambridge : and in the

Iapplied sciences that are really taken up there, of which would

specially mention Astronomy, the education is complete and
excellent. But with this, there is an excessively strong tendency

to those mathematical subjects which are pursued in the closet,

without the effort of looking into the scientific world to see

what is wanted there ; and common circumstances produce a

common effect on many men, till it becomes a peculiarity of the

University.

     The question then arises, how can this (considered as a fault)
be corrected ?

   I have often wished that we could have in our examiners an

Ielement foreign to the University. But, looking to the extreme

difficulty of this, am very glad to accept the next available aid :
namely, the assistance of Professors of the University, whose

position makes them responsible to the world, and whose pursuits

are connected with the science exterior to the University.

     And this we have in the Smith's Prize Institution. The

conditions to which I have alluded distinctly require a separate

examination, but they do not distinctly require a morning's

examination by papers instead of an Essay, &c., &c.

     You mention as one of the causes of unfriendly feeling to the
Smith's Prize Institution the idea that its examination is a sort of

Irival to the Senate House Examination. Certainly it is so, and

  hope it ever will be so. Its function would cease if it were not

so. The mere £50 for two prizes is a trifle : it is nothing in

           OPINION ON SUGGESTIONS FOR CHANGE                     215

comparison with the prizes of fellowships which are waiting for

the 1st and 2nd wranglers : the whole Foundation would be

nugatory if the examination were not independent, and therefore

necessarily a rival. As to giving the management of its small

pecuniary rewards to the Senate House examiners, and thus

ending the Institution entirely; or as to mixing the examiners

with the Senate House examiners and thus swamping them ; in

either case, the Foundation will have perished.

The Smith's Prize Examination must, in my opinion, retain its

Istrictly independent character.
         do not think that there is any positive objection to the

Official Examiners or Trustees having unofficial Assessors if they

think fit.

   IAnd see no objection to raising the question on the substi

tution of an Essay for a Paper Examination. I do not think it

easy to arrange : possibly the experience of the Adams' Essay may

I Iserve as guide.           could assist you with any useful
         heartily wish that

Isuggestion on the last mentioned point, or any related to it.
But at present      do not see my way clearly to any change.

And, believing that the Prizes have been very useful, and that

the terms of the Institution, unaltered, contain the elements
Iof great utility,
                    am well content to let things remain as

they are.       I am, my dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                                                    G. B. AIRY.

                                                                                February 24, 1868.

    My dear Sir -- The periodical business of Monday compels me

to answer your letter of 23rd rather briefly.
     1. Would there be advantage in expressing a hope that the

Smith's Prize Examiners will frame their questions in concert?

I(Perhaps they do.)

     2. like your ultimate suggestion, division of the questions
into groups and requiring something in each.

   I3. And suppose the limitation to the number of questions

to be answered is the only way of avoiding what is undoubtedly
a serious defect in the Senate House examination. On the degree

of limitation, you will judge much better than I. The under

standing (in whatever way conveyed) of the importance attached
to accuracy and completeness will be very valuable.

216 USEFUL FUNCTIONS OF EXAMINATIONS

4. The selection of the more choice candidates, the common

discussion of their papers, and the casting vote to the previous

Senate House decision, are all excellent.

   I am delighted at the earnestness with which you are going

into this, and am sure that good will come of it. The Smith's

Prize Examination will rise in credit (I do not care about the
other questions), and it will become as heretofore the dominant
Iexamination.
               am, my dear Sir, yours very truly,

               The White House, Groom's Hill,

                                         Greenwich Park, S.E.

                                                              Feb. 14, 1882.

My dear Sir--Thank you for your orderly explanation of the

steps which lead to the interpretation of dn.

   I agree with you most completely as to the advantage -- to a

speculative mathematician -- of fairly throwing down the reins
and seeing which way the animals will pull them. But all,
intellectually, thus gained, is mere dreams ; if anything real can
be extracted from them, well and good. But till that extraction

is made, they are entitled to no higher privileges than the idlest

dreams.

    I do not in the slightest degree object to the devotion of

time to these speculations or to the publication of them in the
Transactions of the Mathematical Society. But the introduction

of them into Academical Examination           is,in my opinion, very
                                                                        a
                                                           :               is,
serious error. Examination has two objects discrimination of
                                                                                       ;
merits in Academical pursuits, and guidance of future students

and for both these, the matter of which have spoken                               as
                                              I

believe, not only unfit but injurious.
I
                    I                         am, my dear Sir, yours very truly.

                              I                               Feb.  9,  1883.

My dear Sir -- am greatly obliged by the kind recollection

of me by yourself, and also by the others of the Smith Prize

Board, in sending me the copy of the Examination Papers

(including the Dissertation paper, which suppose may attri
                                              II              I

bute mainly to you). very much value the maintenance of this
I

           is

                                           ;

                        I
connexion with the University.

am pleased with this examination.                 think that, generally,

its tone healthy sounder in character than some past examina

               THE SMITH'S PRIZES AT CAMBRIDGE            217

Itions, in parts which will not further specify, but which you will

remember.
I IBut I find that mathematics go ahead of me (at least pure
mathematics).  am not so clear on ' quantics ' as ought to be,
though I know that Spottiswoode and Cayley value them highly.

                         Yours, my dear Sir, most truly,

                                                                                        June 2, 1886.

    My dear Sir--We are startled with the report that you

cannot be present at the Visitation of the Royal Observatory.
     Cannot this be in some way altered ?

               Yours, my dear Sir, most truly,

                                             G. B. AIRY.

                         Observatory,

                                                                                        March 29, 1887.

My dear Stokes,

        I Isend with this the papers have relating to Hydro

statics, Optics, Sound and Heat, though some of these are very
Imeagrely represented*.
                         find the little note-book you let me

have very interesting.
     You will also be doubtless glad!! to see such elaborate Smith's

Prize papers. I have not yet been able to look over them, and it

appears to me not a very easy job to do so. The papers appear to

Ibe of quite a different and superior stamp to those of last year, so

far as can judge.
     We are just going to start, and have settled to go to Dawlish.

                         Yours very truly,

                                    J. C. ADAMS.

       Friendship with JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

     The origin of the life-long intimacy between Sir George Stokes
and Clerk Maxwell may be gleaned from the earlier of the scientific

letters printed in Vol. n. It would appear that in his younger

days Maxwell considered Stokes as a sympathetic master, to
whom he could unreservedly report the successes and ambitions

of his scientific efforts. In later years, after 1871, when Maxwell

returned to Cambridge as first Cavendish Professor of Experimental
Physics, the deep vein of moral seriousness in both their characters,

     * Perhaps of the Portsmouth Collection of Newton MSS. of which the catalogue
was published in 1888.

218 RELATIONS WITH CLERK MAXWELL

and a common interest in theological study, drew them still closer
together. Their fields of scientific investigation were strikingly
separate ; though each of them was attentive and very appreciative
to the work of the other, their efforts ran on different lines. With

Maxwell the scientific imagination was everything: Stokes carried
caution to excess. Maxwell revelled in the construction and dis

section of mental and material models and images of the activities
of the molecules which form the basis of matter : Stokes' published
investigations are mainly of the precise and formal kind, guided
by the properties and symmetries of matter in bulk, in which the
notion of a molecule need hardly enter. Kelvin stands perhaps

halfway between them. In the main features of his activity he
could rightly be described, as he has himself insisted, as a pupil of

Stokes ; but along with this practical quality there worked a

constructive imagination which doubtless, next to Faraday, formed
the main inspiration of Maxwell, though it stopped short of the
bold tentative flights into the unknown which in Maxwell's work'
turned out to be so successful.

      When failing health overtook Clerk Maxwell and his wife,

their relations with Sir George Stokes and his family were drawn
closer still. In letters between Stokes and Kelvin the anxious

solicitude of both in the matter of Maxwell's last illness comes out

very strongly. On his death the arrangement of his affairs, both
civil and scientific, devolved on Sir George Stokes' hands.

              To Major W. A. ROSS, R.A.

My dear Sir,  Cambridge, 18 May, 1872.

I return the proofs of your book. I have not entered

much into modern speculations about atomicity, and am not there

fore competent to give a good opinion about its usefulness. My

notion is that in chemistry there is a tendency at present to intro

duce to the student speculations at too early a stage, possibly

facilitating a little his progress just at first starting, but going far

to vitiate his philosophic intelligence and to prevent him from

taking an impartial view of the evidence which may be adduced

in favour of such speculations --leading him in fact to accept as
dogma what he ought to accept, if he accepts it at all, on account
of the simplicity with which it explains and groups together the

known facts.

              IDEAS OF ATOMS AND MOLECULES             219

I am not sure whether you mean to use the polygons merely

as illustrations or actually suppose that such is the shape of the
Ifmolecules.  the latter I cannot go with you. We are far, I

think, from knowing even as a probability what a molecule is ;

but spectral phenomena prove to my mind that it is not a little

complex even in the case of the so-called elementary substances.

                            Yours sincerely,

                                       G. G. STOKES.

From Notes for a Report by Prof. Stokes (1888).

I confess that what the author regards as manifest seems to

me very probably not true. What we know of isomeric com

pounds precludes the supposition that their chemical properties

are, so to speak, functions of their molecular weights. And if this

be not true of compounds, what right have we to assume that it is

true of the molecular or even of the atomic weights of the so-

called elementary bodies, which for anything we know to the

contrary may be compounds of bodies yet more elementary which

have never been isolated ?

But whether this assumption be true or not, it is of course

open to any one to try whether he can discover, be it only as an

empirical law, a relation between a series of numbers and the suc

cessive atomic weights of the elements. This is what the author

has set himself to try.

How far there is evidence that the result has a real foundation

in nature, or how far it is merely a playing with numbers, and

I

              is
                 a

                   ; it

                             is

                       I

                                                        a

                                           it
                                          if
                                                  it
                                                             it

                                                                                     it,
                                                                                                    is

                                                                                                                     a
getting out of a formula what had first been put into

question on which        hard to form a decided opinion without

working a good deal, as the author has done, at the actual

numerical trials. As far as can judge by merely reading the

paper, confess the evidence for natural foundation appears to

me not to be strong. It does not of course follow that the

arrangement   without value, were only, as the author suggests,

for purposes of chemical instruction,  be held to be artificial

rather than natural but of course a very different estimate would

be placed upon its importance according as was or was not sup

posed to have foundation in nature.

220 RELATIONS OF AUTHORS TO PUBLISHING SOCIETIES

                           ROYAL SOCIETY.

     The amount of time and care that Prof. Stokes devoted, for a
quarter of a century, to the well-being of the Royal Society has
been amply recognized by the limited number of persons who
are in a position to know the circumstances. The following
letters and extracts may be of interest as illustrations.

                   To Prof. SYLVESTER.

                   R. S., 22 April 1872.

I As to my doctrine of indebtedness in the matter of papers,
    did not mean, as you seem to imagine, to speak of the

balance of a debtor and creditor account, but only of the entry
I Ion one side.
                   cannot speak of the feelings of others, but can
Ispeak of my own when I say that do feel under obligation to

Ithe Societies that publish, and the referees that examine my
papers.   don't mean to say but that a good paper is also an

acceptable present to a Society. I look on it as one of those

instances of mutual benefit that bind human Societies together,

and I prefer leaving it in that courteous shape to going on to

strike a balance.

     When you remember that 100 papers or so per Session pass
in one way or another through my hands, perhaps you will excuse

my not having all the details of references at my fingers' ends.

    If in this case there has been a minute ruffling of the pre

viously smooth course of a friendly correspondence, it will at least

have the advantage of preventing me from again forgetting your

request.

I IP.S. On reading your letter again see misunderstood one
par. by connecting the words " by some slight expression of regret

or" with the passive verb immediately preceding instead of (as

was intended) a passive verb much higher up in the sentence

which was a long one. This altered the sense in a manner which
I II(as may freely say now that perceive
                                          misunderstood you)

made it not a little offensive, and was the cause of my writing

the last sentence in my letter.

    I had not forgotten your general unwillingness to act as

I Ireferee, but had not remembered, nor do now remember, nor
with your letter open before me am I sure you assert, that your

          RELATIONS WITH SIR JOSEPH HOOKER                                                                                                              221

former unwillingness to act as referee amounted to a request

that in no case whatsoever should a paper be sent you. I can
hardly imagine that if it did I should have failed to make a

                it,

                     I if

                             it

                               I

                                                    it
mental note of but          did certainly owe you an apology

for my forgetfulness.       shall understand so for the future.

My dear Huxley,                                         Observatory, Armagh,
                                                                           4/8/74.

                  have heard from Ray Lankester about his illustrations.

   am afraid we are treating him as battledores do shuttlecock.

   If the snails knew they were to be honoured with TEN PLATES

in the Phil. Trans, wouldn't they cock up their horns
I
           I

                             J.
                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                     ?
          From Sir D. HOOKER, Pres. R.S.

My dear Stokes,                                                       Dec. 7/78.

          should long ere this have thanked you for the
       is
valuable hints as to the Address, but have been occupied with
            I                                           I

                I                                                 it
Kew arrears, and also been away from home.

Your criticism on the crystalline nature of starch                                                                                                      most
                                                                      a
important, and         thank you for putting                            is,so clearly to me
                                                                               is
there  however a difference between starch being crystalline
                                                                                          is :
in structure, and what Nageli contends for, which                                                                                                       that the

particles (molecules he calls them but not chemical molecules)
which enter into the composition of starch have crystalline

character. The latter view       is,

                                     I
                                 as am assured by Dyer (who

well up in the literature of the subject), universally adopted in

Germany.

         must confess cannot follow the physiologists' reasoning,
the whole subject of the structure of the cell-wall as given in
is
                                                                                                                                                        think
 I

                         I
Sachs' Lehrbuch appears to me to be very speculative.
                                                        by

                                                                  I

                                                                                 I it
a pity that the word 'molecule' was introduced at all, and

that Nageli's splendid physiological researches were accompanied

with explanations that may be disputed                                physicists. But

must give the state of the Science as accepted by physiologists,

and cannot do this without an allusion to Nageli and Strass-

burger's crystalline theory of the particles in cell-walls, starch

grains, &c.                                             adding after believed-- "by most
         have entered a caution
I

                                                    by

222 PROBLEMS OF SCIENTIFIC PRIORITY

Iphysiologists" --which correctly  believe represents the opinion

of the many German botanical schools, and of the rising Cam

Ibridge one under Mr Vines suppose.

     Lastly your criticism on my treatment of the " Radiometer,

&c." is quite just and indeed obvious Ito me. -- have altered it.
The more accurate determination of the Solar parallax I classed

with advances appealing to seekers of knowledge for its own sake,

and as having suggested the field of research in the parallax of
Mars -- perhaps rather lamely! Again thanking you for this and

for many acts of kindness and consideration during my Presidency

           From the "Pall Mall Gazette."

Sir,                               Cambridge, 8 July, 1880.

            In your impression of the 6th instant, in an article

headed "Who speaks first?" occurs an "illustration" which I

am sure the writer would not have used if he had been fully

acquainted with the circumstances of the case.

In January last Mr Huggins mentioned to me that he had

found that the flame of burning hydrogen on being photographed

gave a whole series of lines in the ultra-violet region of the

spectrum, and a few days later he showed me one of the photo
graphs. We had some conversation on the subject, and it was

suggested that the spectrum was really that of incandescent
Iwater.
           rather think, but my recollection is not certain about

this, that he expressed some doubts whether he had best publish

the result he had obtained at once, or wait till he should have

examined other flames. Be that as it may, he adopted the latter

course.

    A few months later Professor Liveing mentioned to me in

conversation that Professor Dewar and he had observed a set of

lines in the ultra-violet part of the spectrum which were referable
Ito water or appeared to be so.
                                   of course said nothing about

Mr Huggins's discovery, which had been communicated to me in

confidence ; and having been thus made the confidant of both
Iparties,
           carefully abstained from saying anything to either

which might have the effect of either accelerating or retarding

the publication of their results.

Those who examine the Proceedings of the Royal Society will

know that Professors Liveing and Dewar have for a considerable

           FUNCTIONS OF AN EDITOR                              223

time been engaged together in a careful examination of the spectra
of chemical elements and of some combinations. The further

examination of the spectrum of water with a view to eliminating
possible impurities and mapping it in detail naturally fell in with
their work. The subject was fully worked out in time to send

a paper to the Royal Society which was read at the last meeting

in June. It is true that in a paper read very shortly before,

Professors Liveing and Dewar mentioned that they had been
working at the spectrum of water, and promised shortly to send
a paper on that subject ; and it was doubtless this mention that
induced Mr Huggins to communicate a paper on his own work
on the same subject without waiting till the materials for a
longer paper on the spectra of different flames were ready for
publication. Mr Huggins's paper on the spectrum of water was
read at the same meeting as that of Professors Liveing and
Dewar. We have therefore here another example, of which the
history of science affords so many, of the same discovery being

made perfectly independently and nearly simultaneously by in
dependent workers following independent lines of research.

    II will only add that in making the above communication

am acting in accordance with the wishes of both parties.

                        I am Sir, your obedient servant,

                                                                G. G. STOKES.

           To an Author.

                                Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

                                2 May 1882.

It is of course no part of my duty as Secretary of the Royal

Society to revise, or attempt to revise, papers that the authors
Isend in.
           have plenty of work of my own without that. Had
I simply confined myself to my duty there was an end of the

matter.
IBut thought it a pity that it should not be published, merely
I Ifrom what were deemed by the referees, and must say agree
I Iwith them, faults of style.
                                thought therefore that would try
Iif could not revise it so as to make it more acceptable, of course

Isubmitting it to you for your approval before it was presented as

your paper. But have always loads of things on hand waiting

to be done, and so this matter, which had not got to be done by

a particular day, got put off.

224 THE THEORY OF NATURAL RADIATION

Dear Sir Richard [Owen],              1 Nov. 1884.

           In your letter of Oct. 10 you mentioned an inter

change of the numbers of the plates illustrating your papers on

Sceparnodon and Notiosaurus, and suggested that if the Biological

Secretary had compared the plates before the volume was sent to

press the mistake would not have happened.

   IIn reply expressed my great concern at the mistake, and
Itook the blame upon myself, as am editor of the Transactions.

   IOn going to the Royal Society this week was very much

pleased to find that there had been no such mistake as you
supposed. The numbers were all right, and it was merely that

the stitcher of your private copies had not followed them.

     Hence there is no blame for the Secretaries to take upon

Ithemselves; for need hardly say that it does not form part of

the duties of the Secretary of the Royal Society, whether the

Biological or the Physical Secretary, to look over the shoulders

of a bookbinder's assistant as he is doing his work lest he should

make some mistake. Yours very truly,

Prof. MINCHIN on Natural Radiation.

    A letter from Prof. Minchin, entering on a train of ideas in

relation to the law of natural radiation which has recently been
revived with success, elicited an interesting reply bearing on the
exciting cause of all radiation.

                                    Royal Indian Engineering College,

                                                   Cooper's Hill, Staines.

Dear Sir,                             \7th Nov. 1878.

Professor P. Martin Duncan has advised me to address

you with reference to experiments on spectra, and has allowed me
to use his name as an introduction to you.

     Can you tell me whether any of those who have investigated
the heat and light intensities in different parts of the spectrum
have determined numerically the values of the ordinates of the

curves of intensities corresponding to abscissae measured along the

spectrum ?

    It has just struck me that a close connection between the

Kinetic Theory of Gases and the theory of ethereal vibrations

         SUGGESTED CONNEXION WITH GAS-THEORY                       225

in the spectrum might be verified mathematically by determining
the equations of the above-mentioned curves of intensity from a
large number of measurements of ordinates.

     For, in the Kinetic Theory, it is proved that the number of

molecules of the gas which are moving about with velocities >x
and < x + dx is proportional to

where a is the mean velocity of the molecules (the gas being

supposed homogeneous).              y = a?e~x'/a',  its shape  is some

    Now if we construct the curve
what as in the following figure --

             MN

and this figure is extremely like the pictures of the curves of

intensities of light and heat which one sees in the books. The

maximum ordinate corresponds (as is a priori natural) to the

mean velocity, and the number of molecules moving with velocities

> 0M< ON is represented by the little rectangle MNQP.

   IThere are many considerations connected with this curve of

velocities which, think, would throw light on the nature of the
Ifvibrations both in solid bodies and in gases.
                                                    we assume that x

above has actually only values somewhere in the neighbourhood

of a, it strikes me that the fact of linear spectra in gases might

be explained.

   I shall be much obliged if you will let me know whether

your extensive work on this subject will furnish me with the
Irequired information, or direct me to some source whence can
Iobtain it.
             am, dear Sir, yours truly,

                                    GEO. M. MINCHIN.

Dear Sir,                                L. C. C, 18 Nov., 1878.

               The ratios of the light and of the heat at different

parts of the spectrum have certainly been determined numeri
cally from observation. They were so determined for light by
Fraunhofer. The results are given in his paper in the Munich

s. b i.                                                        15

226 CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR ACTIVE RADIATION

Transactions, in which he announced his discovery, or more

exactly, re-discovery, of the fixed lines of the spectrum. See

Vol. v. pp. 210 et seq. The intensity for heat also has been

measured, among others by Tyndall.

    I do not think the results can be applied in the way you
propose. It appears to be one of the mysterious properties of the

ether that it lets through solid matter without the excitement

of luminous vibrations, or of vibrations of the same kind. For

the production of such vibrations, it appears to be necessary that

two portions of matter should be influencing each other's motion,

be they two distinct molecules in what is spoken of as a collision,

or be they portions of one and the same complex molecule. In

the latter we must include the molecules, as we know them,

of the so-called elementary bodies. A transparent gas requires

an extremely high temperature to be luminous, a temperature far

above that at which a solid metal would be brilliantly luminous.

Yet according to theory the molecules of the former are moving

about more freely than those of the latter. Take again a blow

pipe bead of say microcosmic salt. This will emit no sensible light

when the platinum wire which holds it is nevertheless at a strong

red or it may be at a white heat. It ought not to be so, were the

motion of the molecules in the ether the only thing required for

the production of light. Yours truly  G. G. STOKES.

Cavendish Chair; Lord RAYLEIGH.

On the death of Prof. Clerk Maxwell in the Autumn of 1879,

the adequate continuation of the new departure which he had

initiated and superintended, in the building and equipment of the

Cavendish Laboratory, became a subject of anxious concern in the

University of Cambridge. It was felt that every effort should be

made to obtain the services of either Sir W. Thomson or Lord

Rayleigh, as head of the Laboratory. At an early stage it had

become known that the former would not be able to break up his

life-long connexion with Glasgow: thus effort was concentrated ou

inducing Lord Rayleigh to offer himself to the suffrages of the

Senate, to whom the selection belonged. As in the previous case
of Maxwell, and in others, it devolved on Prof. Stokes to be the

means of communication.  The following letter was accompanied
by a statement :--

        THE SUCCESSION TO CLERK MAXWELL AT CAMBRIDGE 227

" We the undersigned members of the Senate of the University

of Cambridge, whose names are on the Electoral Roll, are of

opinion that in the probable event of the re-establishment of the

Professorship of Experimental Physics, which has been terminated

by the lamented death of Professor Clerk Maxwell, it would tend

greatly to the advance of Physical Science and to the advantage
                                                                     "
of the  University  that Lord  Rayleigh  should occupy  the  chair
                                                                    :

signed by 125 members of the Senate, practically amounting to
the whole of the official part of the University.

Dear Lord Rayleigh,            Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

                                          18 November, 1879.

                   When we were speaking last week about a successor
to Maxwell, it never occurred to me to look on you as a possible

occupant of the chair. Some of your friends however here have
thought that you might be induced to accept it ; and the enclosed
memorial will show how acceptable your consent would be.

    In the Grace establishing the Professorship, Feb. 9, 1871, it

was enacted that the Professorship should terminate with the

tenure of office of the Professor first elected, unless the University
should decide by Grace of the Senate that the Professorship should

be continued.

    In the Reporter of to-day appears the following Grace which is

to be offered to the Senate next Thursday :
     " That the Professorship of Experimental Physics, established

by Grace of the Senate, Feb. 9, 1871, be continued, subject to the

regulations then enacted so far as they are now applicable."

The regulations laid down by Grace of the Senate on Feb. 9,

1871, declared:

    " It shall be the principal duty of the Professor to teach and

illustrate the laws of Heat, Electricity and Magnetism, to apply

himself to the advancement of the knowledge of such subjects, and

promote their study in the University."

IThey further required 18 weeks' residence and a course of
lectures in each of two terms at least.  mention these as you

may have left your copy of the Ordinationes at the office of the
ICommission, and might wish to refer to it.
                                             do not think it

worth while to mention the other regulations, which are of minor

consequence.

                                                             15--2

228 THE CAVENDISH PROFESSORSHIP OF PHYSICS

I have now put you in possession of the principal facts of the
I Icase.
      will only say in conclusion that should be greatly

pleased to hear that you were disposed to look favourably on the

proposal, and the paper enclosed will show how widely that feeling

Iis shared.  remain, dear Lord Rayleigh, yours sincerely,

                                           G. G. STOKES.

                         Terling Place, Witham, Essex.

Dear Prof. Stokes,               Dec. 1/79.

             After much consideration I have made up my mind to

stand for the Professorship of Experimental Physics, feeling unable

Ito resist a request such as that which you forwarded to me*. can

only hope that my friends are right in their view as to my qualifi

cations for the office.

                         Yours very sincerely,

                                           RAYLEIGH.

Dear Prof. Stokes,                                   Dec. 1/79.

             Sidgwick looked at Lensfield Housef, but we conclude

      is

                        I it
                                 I

                                                                                it,
from his report that there are not enough rooms in though the

lawn  attractive. We had heard of the house in St Peter's

Terrace, and think that would    suit.     longer to retain                                      the
     This being the case, think  ought no

refusal of Lensfield House.

             With thanks, Yours very sincerely,

                                               RAYLEIGH.

The following letter from Prof. Ketteler, of Bonn, whose

theoretical and experimental work has been in the forefront in

advancing the theory of the dispersion of light,                                                 of interest
is

  t
           a
               a
                                         a
                                                                ;

                                                                                             is
for the history of the progress of optical science.

     * In letter from Henry Sidgwick (Life, p. 342) to his sister, from Terling
Place, May 29, 1879, passage occurs: "As for other news, we are just now
anxious about Rayleigh's coming to Cambridge.... He has not yet decided. It is
rather wrench to give up leisure and the comforts of a country house unless one

    quite sure that one's duty to society requires it."

     Lord Rayleigh held the chair, residing in Cambridge during term, for four years.
        Next to Lensfield Cottage afterwards and still the residence of Dr and Mrs

Laurence Humphry.

PHYSICAL THEORY OF OPTICAL REFRACTION        229

Sehr geehrter Herr!  Bonn der 16 Juni 1880.

                   Der Unterzeichnete erlaubte sich schon seit einer

 Reihe von Jahren, Ihnen dann und wann Separatabdrücke seiner
 optischen Arbeiten zugehen zu lassen. Diesmal giebt er sich
 die Ehre, die vier letzten von ihm publicirten Abhandlungen
gleichzeitig zu übersenden. Zwei weitere kurze Aufsätze :
" Constructionen zur anomalen Dispersion " und : " Theorie der
chromatischen Polarisation einer senkrecht zur Axe geschliffenen
dichroitischen Platte " sind unter der Presse.

      Da ich Sie, geehrtester Herr, in der optischen Wissenschaft
als hochstehende Autorität verehre, so wollen Sie es mir zu

gute halten, wenn ich der heutigen Sendung einige Worte an
Sie beifüge. Ich habe mich in meinen Arbeiten bemüht, die
theoretische Optik auf Grundlage der Annahme des Zusammen
schwingens der Aether- und Körpertheilchen umzubauen und
insbesondere die Gesetze der Spiegelung und Brechung an und
in den absorbirenden Mitteln zu erforschen. Meines Erachtens
habe ich die Aufgabe für die isotropen Mittel ziemlich vollständig
und für die anisotropen wenigstens ausreichend gelöst. Zu bear
beiten bliebe daher nur noch die Rotationspolarisation, indess
wird eine Theorie derselben, wie ich meine, erst nach weiterer

experimenteller Untersuchung absorbirender drehender Sub
stanzen Aussicht auf Erfolg haben.

     Am ausführlichsten verbreiten sich meine Arbeiten über

Metall- und Total-Reflexion und über anomale Dispersion. Be
züglich der letzteren dürfte es mir gelungen sein, die früheren
Ansichten Boussinesq's, Strutt's, Sellmeier's und Helmholtz's
glücklich zu einem einheitlichen Ganzen zu verschmelzen. Die

Integration der bezüglichen Bewegungsgleichungen giebt dann
Beziehungen, die ich als das Haupt- und Grundgesetz der ganzen
Dioptrik betrachte. Verbindet man dasselbe mit den von mir
umgeformten Uebergangsbedingungen des Lichtes und unter
Zuziehung des Incompressibilitätsprincips, so erhält man die
Amplituden und Phasen nicht bloss der gespiegelten, sondern
auch der gebrochenen Welle und damit insbesondere die Gesetze
der sogenannten Metallreflexion, die übrigens mit den früheren,
wohl als empirisch zu bezeichnenden Formeln Mac-Cullagh's und
Cauchy's übereinstimmen. Wenn sich freilich in unerwarteter

und überraschender Weise herausstellte, dass der Refractions-
wie der AbsorptionscoefiBcient der absorbirenden Mittel mit dem

230 OPTICAL THEORY

Einfallswinkel veränderlich ist, so wird dieser Umstand leider
gerade für die Aufnahme und Anerkennung der Theorie ein
arges Hinderniss abgeben. Um so mehr musste mich daher die
Wahrnehmung erfreuen, dass die von mir aufgestellten allgemeinen
Formeln die Fresnel'schen Gesetze der Totalreflexion als einen
speciellen Grenzfall umfassen, da ja eben der "streifende Strahl"
derselben, wie längst thatsächlich anerkannt wird, nach Refraction
und Extinction vom Incidenzwinkel abhängt.

      Leider wird meinen Arbeiten zur Zeit noch die Anerkennung
versagt; man behandelt sie wie so manche Eintagsproducte, die
auf diesem Gebiete neuerdings namentlich mit Maxwell'schen
Ideen herumphantasiren. Die meisten Celebritäten stehen zudem

bekanntlich jetzt der Optik fern, und was insbesondere die Auf

nahme Deutscher Arbeiten in Frankreich betrifft, so ist dieselbe
seit 1870 noch immer sehr erschwert.

      Vielleicht, hochgeehrter Herr, darf ich die Hoffnung hegen,
dass namentlich Sie meinen theoretischen Resultaten voll und
lückhaltlos zustimmen. Wäre das wirklich der Fall, so dürfte
ich mir wohl die dringliche Bitte gestatten, Sie möchten gütigst bei
etwa sich darbietendem Anlass, etwa in einer der gelehrten Körper
schaften Ihres Landes, auf meine Arbeiten aufmerksam machen.
Sollte es sich empfehlen, die Separatabdrücke derselben etwa der
Royal Society vorzulegen, so würde ich gern erbotig sein, eine
mögligst vollständige Zusammenstellung derselben einschliesslich
der von mir herausgegebenen Werke : " Astronomische Undu-
lationstheorie oder die Lehre von der Aberration des Lichtes.
Bonn 1873 " und : " Beobachtungen über die Farbenzerstreuung
der Gase. Bonn 1865 " zu Ihrer geneigten Disposition zu stellen.

      Indem ich mir die Ehre erbitte, Ihnen auch meine bevorste
henden Publicationen übermitteln zu dürfen, verharre ich mit

vorzüglicher Hochachtung als

                          Ew. Hochwohlgeboren, ganz ergebenster,

                                           E. KETTELER, Professor.

                     Prof. OSBORNE REYNOLDS.

     The following letters relate to the researches of Prof. 0. Reynolds.
In the earlier work on gas-theory, he and Prof. Clerk Maxwell
proved to be engaged in the same field ; though they benefited
by each other's work, they were not able to come to an agreement
on general principles.

THEORY OF FORMATION OF EDDIES                               231

                                           Fallowfield,

My dear Sir,                               6 Nov. 1879.

            IThank you for your letter. Of course ever since saw
Iyou have been expecting the sad intelligence [of the death of

Clerk Maxwell]. I was talking to Dr Joule on Tuesday night

when he was almost cross with me for saying that there appeared

Ito be no hope.
        quite agree with what you say as to the proper course to be

Itaken with my paper or letter, whichever it may turn out to be.

    When you write next will you kindly tell me if am right in

supposing that the matter in a preliminary communication in the
Proceedings may be taken up again and more amply dealt with in

a final communication ?

    I have been experimenting now for a long time on the actual

motion of water-- photography, vortex rings, &c. --and I have still
Imore that want to do before communicating the results. But
Ilast spring arrived at what seems to me to be the theoretical
Iexplanation of the formation of eddies, and should like to com
Imunicate this shortly without waiting till have worked up all
Ithe rest. What have done is to show that elements having

rotational motion must, according to the dynamical theory, remain

and accumulate in certain positions with respect to the solid

surface against which the fluid is moving. The positions which

Ithe reasoning assigns for the accumulations agree with those at
which the eddies and vortices are formed.  think 1 have thus

solved the puzzle of the formation of vortex rings, and completed
the proof that the resistance encountered by solids, other than
skin resistance, is to be explained by the accumulation of eddies
in their rear, as you suggested in 1843.

              Believe me, yours sincerely,

                        OSBORNE REYNOLDS.

Dear Professor Stokes,                     16 March, 1880.

Thank you for your letter and the comments on my
I IIpaper.
think that the right course is to publish my letter.
As I pointed out when last wrote about it, should like my

Iletter to appear as having been written before Prof. Maxwell's

death -- it was written before was aware of his extreme illness

and on the moment of my first receiving his paper. This requires

232 DISCUSSIONS ON THEORY OF THE RADIOMETER

that the date should remain unaltered, and so the alteration you
have made in the first sentence will not stand, for this makes it

appear that the letter was written after Maxwell's death.

    I think that the fact that Maxwell's paper has been published

removes the objection which you have raised against this sentence

Ias it originally stood.
         have nothing to urge against your second alteration, at all

events if you were to add a line to your comments stating that
Prof. Maxwell was Referee --which statement appears to me to
be on all accounts desirable. However this I leave to your

judgement.

My dear Dr Stokes,                                April 25th, 1883.

Thank you very much for your letter and the criticisms
I Iwhich it contains.
am very sorry that have so badly expressed

my meaning.

    I had no intention whatever of laying down the conditions of
Idynamical similarity, although now see that Art. 6 not only

Ibears this construction but really fails to express what meant.
I shall be glad to adopt any means by which this may be

remedied.
     The " evidence " referred to in that article is not evidence that

(as I put it)

                         lpU/(i = (an arbitrary constant)

represents a condition of dynamical similarity, but evidence that,

as this constant varies, for some particular value the dynamical

condition underwent a critical change, which might be a change
Ifrom a condition of stability to one of instability.
                                                       have referred

to two terms as though they were the only two terms in the

equations; but this was an oversight and not intended.
     Taking cylindrical motion parallel to the plane of xy, the

equation of motion becomes on eliminating p

_d%                            d£ df        ^y8v
                                            p
                                dt dx dy          of such  equations
                                          member
IWhat meant was that the right-hand

consists of two sets of terms

     df . d?                   £7-'

          THE CRITERION FOR TURBULENT MOTION IN FLUIDS 233

Consequently if the effect of one of these sets of terms is for
stability and the other for instability, or roughly if one is positive

and the other negative, there must be some particular value of
IpU/fi for which dtydt will change sign ; or, taking d^/dt to represent
the eddying motion, any small eddy disturbance would diminish up
to this particular value and then increase.

    It was this evidence of a critical value for, what may well be

Icalled, the parameter of dynamical similarity, that referred to
Ias having been " overlooked,"-- and the critical values, for have

shown there are two, both of which are determined with more or

Iless exactness, which considered as two new physical constants.

Of course these constants are contained in the equations of motion,
but it seems that they are none the less new since the integrations
necessary for their determination have not yet been effected.

      My first intention was to include the mathematical and physical

investigation in my paper, and I wrote the introduction with that

Iview ; but finding my time running short decided to include only

the experimental, and in cutting down the reference to the mathe

Imatical portion cut out rather too much.
   IWill you kindly suggest what course should take ?

     The following statement was made by Sir George Stokes as
President of the Royal Society in presenting a Royal Medal to
Prof. Osborne Reynolds on Nov. 30, 1888.

    "A Royal Medal has been awarded to Professor Osborne

Reynolds for his investigations in mathematical and experi
mental physics, and on the application of scientific theory to

engineering.
      " Professor Reynolds was among the first to refer the repulsion

exhibited in that remarkable instrument of Mr Crookes's, the
radiometer, to a change in the molecular impact of the rarefied
gas, consequent upon the slight change of temperature of the

moveable body due to radiation incident upon it; and in an

important paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for
1879, he deduced from theoretical considerations the conclusion
that similar phenomena might be expected to be observed in
bodies surrounded by a gas of comparatively large density,
provided their surfaces were very small. He verified this anti
cipation by producing on silk fibres, surrounded by hydrogen
at the atmospheric pressure, impulsions similar to those which

234 DIMENSIONAL RELATIONS IN EDDYING MOTION

in a high vacuum affect the relatively large disks of the radio

meter.

    " In an important paper published in the Philosophical Trans

actions for 1883, he has given an account of an investigation,
both theoretical and experimental, of the circumstances which
determine whether the motion of water shall be direct or sinuous,
or, in other words, regular and stable, or else eddying and unstable.
The dimensions of the terms in the equations of motion of a fluid
when viscosity is taken into account involve, as had been pointed
out*, the conditions of dynamical similarity in geometrically similar
systems in which the motion is regular; but when the motion
becomes eddying it seemed no longer to be amenable to mathe
matical treatment. But Professor Reynolds has shown that the
same conditions of similarity hold good, as to the average effect,
even when the motion is of the eddying kind; and moreover that

if in one system the motion is on the border between steady and
eddying, in another system it will also be on the border, provided

the system satisfies the above conditions of dynamical as well as
geometrical similarity. This is a matter of great practical import
ance, because the resistance to the flow of water in channels and
conduits usually depends mainly on the formation of eddies; and
though we cannot determine mathematically the actual resistance,
yet the application of the above proposition leads to a formula for
the flow, in which there is a most material reduction in the number
of constants for the determination of which we are obliged to have
recourse to experiment.

   I" There are various other investigations of Professor Reynolds's

which time would not allow me to enter into, and therefore

merely mention his investigation of the relation between rolling
friction and the distortion produced by the rolling body on the
surface on which it rests, that of the effect of the change of
temperature with height above the surface of the ground on the
audibility of sounds, and his explanation of the effect of lubrication
as depending on the viscosity of the lubricant."

      * By Prof. Stokes himself in 1850 in his Memoir on Pendulums; cf. Math, and
Phys. Papers, Vol. in. p. 17. The subject was further developed with weighty
applications to balloons (1873), winds, waves, and clouds (1886-90) by Helmholtz.

VISCOSITIES OF HIGHLY RAREFIED GASES                               235

19, Lady Barn Road, Fallowfield, Manchester.

Dear Sir George,                             March 31, 1902.

IThank you very much for the third volume which am

very pleased to have, not only for itself but also on account of the

donor. Your visit was a great pleasure to us, and we hope you

were none the worse after your expeditions.

With our kind regards, Yours sincerely,
                                      OSBORNE REYNOLDS.

VISCOSITY OF GASES.

     The following letters relate to Prof. Stokes' reduction of
Crookes' experiments on the rate of decay of oscillation of a mica
plate in very high vacua. The presumption expressed in the
first letter that nothing quantitative could come out of this mode
of experimentation was on the face of it not unreasonable ; but

an examination of Prof. Stokes' masterly discussion* shows that in

fact more elaborate appliances might really have been a hindrance
rather than an aid. The important memoir by Kundt and Warburg
was translated in Phil. Mag. 1875.

Geehrter Herr !   Strassburg in Elsass.
                                   d. 26 Marz, 1881.

                   Aus einer der letzten Nummern der Nature ersehe

ich, dass Sie sich für Untersuchungen über Reibung in den
Gasen auch jetzt noch in hohem Grade interessiren, indem Sie

aus den Versuchen des Hr Crookes die Reibungscoefficienten

berechnen.

     Ich erlaube mir daher Sie darauf aufmerksam zu machen,

dass bereits 1875 vom Herrn Warburg und mir sehr ausführliche
Untersuchungen über Reibung und Wärmeleitung verdünnter
Gase angestellt sind. Dieselben sind nicht bloss viel umfassender
als die des Herrn Crookes, indem dieselben bereits alle von

letzterem gefundenen Resultate enthalten, sondern unterscheiden
sich auch wesentlich dadurch von denen des Herrn Crookes, dass

sie so ausgeführt sind, dass sie eine strenge Berechnung zulassen.
Die Untersuchungen finden sich :

* Phil. Tran». 1881, Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. pp. 100-110.

236 SURFACE GLIDING SUPERVENES IN HIGH VACUA

    Poggendorffs Annalen, Bd. CLv. pp. 337 -- 365, 525 -- 550,
clvi. pp. 177--211, 1875.

     Ich erlaube mir, Ihnen durch die Post Separatabzüge der
betreffenden Abhandlungen zu zusenden.

                                Hochachtungsvoll ergebenst,

                                                        A. KUNDT,

                                                                   Professor der Physik.

Sehr geehrter Herr!   Strassbdrg in Elsass. 16/4. 81.

                 Gestatten Sie mir, Ihnen meinen besten Dank für

Ihre ausführliche Mittheilung vom 29 Marz auszusprechen. Ich
habe Ihr Schreiben auch Herrn Professor Warburg, welcher mit

mir die Untersuchung über Reibung und Wärmeleitung ausführte,

zugesandt.

     Wenn die Versuche des Herrn Crookes auch nach einer

andern Methode als die unsern ausgeführt sind, und wenn bei
den Reibungsversuchen das Evacuiren der Apparate von Herrn
Crookes auch etwas weiter getrieben ist, als von uns, so ist
doch unzweifelhaft von uns -- wie ein näherer Einblick in unsere

Abhandlungen Ihnen gezeigt haben wird --die Abnahme der

Reibung eines Gases mit Zunahme der Verdünnung nicht bloss
experimentell nachgewiesen, sondern auch die Theorie der
Erscheinung aus der Gastheorie, das Auftreten der Gleitung,
etc. etc., bereits vor Jahren entwickelt. Und wie Sie selbst

schreiben :

     Consists the chief interest of Mr Crookes' experiments in
tracing the falling off of the damping effects of the gas, when
excessive exhaustions are reached.

Entschuldigen Sie, wenn ich für heute mich mit dieser kurzen

Erwiederung begnüge.

Eine ausführliche Darlegung der Resultate unserer Unter

suchungen, gegenüber denen des Herrn Crookes, würde ich lieber

nur in Gemeinschaft mit Herrn Warburg geben, mit dem ich

gemeinschaftlich die betreffenden Arbeiten ausführte. Letzterer

ist aber seit einigen Jahren nicht mehr in Strassburg, und mithin

ein gemeinschaftlicher Schreiben zur Zeit wenigstens nicht

möglich.  Mit der Versicherung ausgezeichneter

                      Hochachtung ergebenst,

                                               A. KUNDT.

INFLUENCE OF AURORAS ON MAGNETIC NEEDLE                     237

Letters from Dr JOHN RAE, F.R.S.

                                                                         14 April, 1881.

I have much pleasure in replying to your note of yesterday's

date on the subject of the Aurora *.

    In 1846-7 I wintered at Repulse Bay and again in 1853-4 at

the same place, on the west side of Hudson's Bay in latitude
66° 32' North, longitude 86° 56' W., variation of compass 62° 50'

Iwest, dip or declination of needle 88° 12'.
     On the last occasion did not pay particular attention to the

aurora as the displays were few and unimportant -- but on the first

visit (1846-7) I find recorded 39 appearances of the aurora from

September to February inclusive, say six months -- these displays

were never fine and sometimes very faint, always of a pale yellow

or straw-colour, generally in the form of an arch to the magnetic

south and not at a great height; sometimes there were streaks

or beams of the same colour described pointing towards the

zenith, these were generally seen in a southern direction. The

movements of both forms were seldom if ever varied.

The magnetic needle suspended by a filament of silk in a

snow-hut was never visibly affected by these aurorae.

   I may mention that there was water uncovered by ice, owing

to rapid currents during the whole winter, in the direction of

the magnetic south, about 30 or 40 miles from winter quarters.

    At Fort Confidence, on the shores of Great Bear Lake, latitude

66°54'N., longitude 118° 49' W., variation of compass 48°30'E.,

Iwhere wintered with Sir John Richardson in 1848-9, the move

ments of the aurora were watched with great care and attention.

We had a number of fine displays of the flashing, rapidly moving

and variously coloured aurora, which you appropriately term

"flickering," and it was these that acted so powerfully on the

suspended magnetic needle. These aurorae were usually seen

towards the magnetic north, and they were generally at a greater

altitude than the others, sometimes as high as the zenith.
I may mention that both Indians and Eskimos assert that the
Ibright, rapidly moving aurorae produce sound.
                                                shall be happy

to answer any other questions.

     * Cf. Prof. Stokes' introductory lecture on Solar Physics, delivered at South
Kensington, April 6, 1881, on behalf of the Committee on Solar Research, and
reported in Nature, Vol. xxiv. pp. 595-8 and 613-8.

238 PHENOMENA OF EXPANSION IN ARCTIC ICE

                           22nd October, 1881.

   I duly received your letter of to-day's date on the subject of

Glaciers, and regret that I cannot answer either of the two

questions you ask.

    Unfortunately the lands near to where I wintered in the

Arctic are neither high enough nor steep enough to have glaciers
of any kind, ''thick or thin," and there was no opportunity of

studying the subject.
     My own idea is that Arctic glaciers must have a downward

I Imotion more or less rapid during the whole year, summer and
winter.  believe the alternation of heat and cold --or should
rather say of temperature --would of itself cause motion, especially

near the upper surface.

We know that ice, two or three feet or more thick, contracts

very considerably in a few hours by a sudden fall of 15 or 20
Idegrees of temperature.
                           have found cracks in the ice on Lake
Winnipeg three or four feet wide formed by this cause --during a
single night -- almost stopping our sledge journey ; this gap soon

freezes up. Then the weather gets milder, the ice expands, and

with the new additional formation, is too large for the lake, and

is forced up into ridges.

         1 = Cracks formed by contraction caused by cold.

        USE OF TYPEWRITER  239

     This process goes on, at every cold snap* alternating with
milder weather.

   I find on looking over some of my journals that during the

winter months -- November to April inclusive --we had during

each month two or more alternating short intervals of colder and
milder weather, each of which visibly affected the ice on the

Ilakes in the manner have described.

                                                                               lst November, 1881.

    I thank you much for your letter, telling me of " Moseley's
theory " of ice or glacier movement, of which I certainly had

never heard.

     There was a curious case of lake-ice movement (perhaps there
are many instances of the same kind) observed in Canada, which
may not have come under your notice.

    A long, rather narrow and shallow lake interfered with the
making a straight road or railway (I forget which). To obviate

the difficulty a line of piles was driven into the mud across the
lake, rather nearer one end than the other, on these a road was

constructed.

      Before the end of winter the posts were so much displaced or
injured by ice movement that the road had to be given up. This
damage took place before the breaking of the ice, and as there

Iwas little or no current, must have been caused by contraction

and expansion, such as mentioned in my former letter.

Some time before 1880, owing to increasing difficulty in

writing, Prof. Stokes took to using a typewriter, with great

advantage to his correspondents and much satisfaction to himself.
I" have now had this machine for several years. Some weeks
Iago tried to run a race with myself, writing down a passage
I knew by heart at first with the machine, and then with the
I Ipen.
        found that with the machine could get through a given

amount of matter in about 70 per cent, of the time required for

the pen. Besides, writing with the pen is laborious, whereas

writing with the machine is rather an amusement than other

wise."

* " Cold-snap," an American term, meaning a rather sudden increase of cold.

240 RELATION OF SUN-SPOTS TO SOLAR RADIATION

                     To Prof. S. P. LANGLEY*.

Dear Sir,            Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,
                                  27 April, 1881.

The importance to man of solar radiation is too well
Ifknown to require me to dwell upon it.
                                         there be reason to

suspect that the amount of radiation is variable, an investigation

of the nature and laws of its variation is not merely a question

of deep scientific interest, but may prove to have very important

practical bearings.

Now that which seems to me to be by far the most probable

view of the nature of sun-spots leads to the expectation that

Iwhen they abound radiation is more copious than on the average,
and when they are absent less copious.  do not regard the spots

themselves as the cause of increased radiation, rather the reverse,

but as being a sequel of a condition of activity, of which they

form the most easily observed manifestation, and which is of

such a nature as to be accompanied by increased radiation.

Of course a change of radiation must tell upon the meteoro

logy of the Earth. But the problem of the Earth's meteorology

Iis one of such extreme complexity that do not think that we

can directly connect such things as temperature of the air, height

of barometer, rainfall, and so forth, with solar radiation, in such

a manner as to make out variations of the latter from variations

of the former.

    All, it seems to me, that we can do in this way is to fall
back on the general principle that if there be a system, however

complicated, which is acted on by a disturbing cause, and the

latter be subject to a periodic variation, the disturbed system
will show a variation of similar period. From observations on

the disturbed system continued for a sufficient length of time

     * The absolute measurements of solar radiation by Prof. Langley, whose death
has recently been so great a loss to science, began in 1880 by the use of his then
newly invented bolometer, and were continued for many years at both high and
low levels; among the many marks of appreciation of the results, the award of the
Rumford Medal of the Royal Society may here be mentioned. Cf. the memorial
notice by C. G. Abbot, in Attrophysical Journal, May, 1906. The great importance
attached to actinometry by Prof. Stokes, and the labours he undertook in order to
evolve trustworthy instruments of observation, have already been noticed in con
nexion with the Meteorological Council.

                PROSPECTS OF HIGH-LEVEL ACTINOMETRY                               241

we may infer the existence and length of period, and likewise

the epoch, of a periodic disturbance, if such there be. From a

periodic disturbance we may infer the existence of a periodic

disturbing cause, of which the length of the period may be thus

ascertained, but not the epoch. Hence, even if the periodicity of

a change in the amount of solar radiation were more regular than

we have reason to think that it              great while must elapse
                             it if it
before we could make out in this way the existence and lengthis,
                                                a
of period of such a change, while we should remain in ignoranceit
                                                        is
of the epoch.

The most hopeful way, seems to me, for arriving at some

knowledge of the variations, any, in the amount of solar radia

tion, by the employment of some form of actinometer. But for
a
         is isthe employment of such an instrument          of great importance

to get rid as far as may be of the haze and dust which are

contained in the lower portions of the atmosphere of the Earth, --

in fact, to make the observations in as elevated a locality as

reasonably may be.      think    very probable that in this way
                a

                     I
direct evidence may ultimately be obtained of a variation in the

amount of solar radiation.                                  I  attach

    It with view to a study of solar radiation that

so much importance to a good elevation. But besides the study

of direct radiation, the meteorological conditions at a high ele

vation are also of great interest, especiallya              observations at such

                                                if
station are combined with others at comparatively low level,

taken at a place not far off in a lateral direction.

                I   am, dear Sir, yours sincerely,

                                               G. G. STOKES.

                To WARREN DE LA RUE, F.R.S.

Dear Mr De La Rue*,                                         30 June, 1881.

                It seems to me that the only thing that can be

done in free balloon    towards the measurement of atmospheric
electricity -- but      thing which there would be much interest
in doing-- this
a

   is
           : it

                   is
                          a
                                                                    ;a
                                                                              is
There would be no difficulty in letting rope of half a mile

or so in length hang down from the balloon indeed that often

* A long series of letters from Mr Warren de la Rue (1855-1885) exists.

S. b. I.                                                       16

242 ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY FROM BALLOONS

done as a matter of aerial navigation. This rope might have
belonging to it a thin copper wire covered with gutta-percha or
india-rubber. This wire is connected above with one pair of

quadrants, and with one coating of the Leyden-jar or other

condenser, or with one pole of the battery of numerous small

elements, according as a condenser or battery is used*. The

other pair of quadrants is connected with the second coating of

the condenser or second pole of the battery. The copper wire

is connected below with some form of collector. Water would

Ifreeze; and besides, a supply of water, and the tube to lead it
down to the bottom of the wire, would weigh too much.   think

the best form of collector would be a brush of long, very fine

wires. A spirit flame, fed by a supply below, might compromise

the safety of the aeronaut ; for he would probably want to draw

up the rope, and then the flame might come in contact with

escaping gas. Connect the car with the needle.

Or, what would probably be more convenient, connect the car

and one coating or pole with one pair of quadrants, the other

coating or pole with the other pair, and the insulated wire with

the needle.

    I have written to Sir William Thomson to ask him what he

thought would be the best form of condenser collector.

The wire must not be used in thundery weather, and even in

ordinary weather half-a-mile might be too great a length to begin

with, for fear of any accident.

     In 1872, the subject of the protection of the harbour of Madras

occupied a great deal of his attention as a member of the Govern

mental Committee to consider the question, and led to much

experimenting (see p. 32). A long and patient correspondence

with the Engineer of the harbour that had been demolished by

the waves, who was an old schoolfellow, still exists.

To W. PARKES, Esq., C.E.

                                 1 Victoria Buildings, Hunstanton.

                                                                                      4 September, 1882.

I got Stevenson's book on Harbours out of the University

ILibrary, and read it all with the exception of some details which
did not concern me.  was much interested by it.

* In this arrangement the condenser or battery would have to be insulated.

ACTION OF BREAKING WAVES ON STRUCTURES         243

   I do not for a moment deny what you call the impulsive

action of the moving water when its motion is checked or altered.

IBut do altogether deny that the existence of such an action

entails the abandonment of the fundamental property of a
fluid that the pressure, while varying from point to point, is at
any point alike in all directions, a consequence of which is that
the pressure is normal to the surface. Your ideas about an
oblique action of the obliquely descending wave seemed to me
to involve an abandonment of this fundamental principle.

    What would actually take place if a wave were to descend
obliquely in the manner you drew, is this: --the direction of

motion would be rapidly deflected, and the motion itself a good
deal checked. This would entail a considerable augmentation
of pressure about the part of the block on which the water
descended. This great increase of pressure is of brief duration,
though not by any means so brief as those to which the term
"impulse" is commonly applied. But this pressure remains

normal to the surface, and consequently has no tendency to
upset the block.

     Had the block been so shaped as to present a sort of parapet
on the harbour side, the case would have been altered. The

checking of the horizontal motion would have produced a con

siderable pressure, increasing from the seaward side towards the

Iside of the parapet-- speak it will be seen of an imaginary

structure which an engineer would be careful not to make -- and

this pressure, acting horizontally against the side of the parapet,
would tend to upset the block into the harbour. The little

roughnesses of the block may act as such parapets, but they
are too insignificant to be taken into account.

    As to the additional wall you propose, why should it not be

bonded to its neighbour in the manner you propose for the two

existing walls? or if the necessity of providing for settlement

should forbid this, then by chains, or at least bars formed of two

or three links, in lieu of railway bars ? Of course they would cost

more, but I should suppose that the cost would be a very in

Isignificant fraction of the cost of the repair as a whole.

       remain here till Saturday week.

                                        16--2

244 DESIGN FOR BONDING OF HARBOUR WALL

To Sir John HAWKSHAW, C.E., F.R.S.

                       Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

                                       4 August, 1882.
I enclose you, or rather send you on this sheet, a roughly
Icopied drawing of the system suggested for what you may call
Isliding bond.
                  should explain that the angles chosen and the

proportion of length to breadth are not the result of any calcula

tion, but were merely taken as representing something like what

seemed suitable.

     The breadth of a pier may take in any number, greater than
one, of half breadths of a block. The figure below takes in five.

IOn the next leaf have inked in four only. The latter is most

nearly analogous to Mr Parkes's wall.

   IOf course different patterns of keying might be suggested.

The one have drawn is perhaps the simplest and best.

The piles of blocks stand like basaltic columns, so that while

bond is preserved, there is no interference with the principle of
independent settlement, to which Mr Parkes seemed to attach so

much importance.

My dear Spottiswoode,                  22 May, 1882.

I have sent in a short paper* to the Royal Society con

taining a possible explanation of a photographic phenomenon

Isuggested to me by an observation made about solar phosphori,

not containing anything new in principle, but in a form to suggest

the photographic application, which was not suggested when

I made the experiment, not at all a new one, in a pure spectrum.
   I asked Captain Abney whether an explanation had been given

of the photographic phenomenon, and he mentioned to me an

Iexplanation, which he told me was commonly received. From

the language, partly involving a theory which do not share, in

Iwhich he expressed himself, did not at first think the common
Iexplanation was likely to be correct. But when stripped the

explanation of the theoretical language, and ascended to what

I suppose are the facts, it struck me as very likely to be the true

explanation. Still, Captain Abney thinks my explanation a possible

one, and proposes "after my paper is read" to examine the thing

experimentally.

     * Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. pp. 117-- 124, where Sir W. Abney's explana
tion is given.

THE COMMITTEE ON SOLAR PHYSICS  245

                                            ACTINOMETRY.

      The Government Committee on Solar Physics was instituted
 in the early eighties, in connexion with the Solar Physics Ob
 servatory established at South Kensington, under the direction of
 Prof. Norman Lockyer, to promote insight and investigation into
 the problems connected with the nature and changes of the
Solar Radiation, by which all physical activity on this Earth is
ultimately determined. Prof. Stokes felt it to be his duty to
accede to the request that he should become a member of this
Committee : he became its Chairman, and the guiding spirit in
its work, which occupied a great deal of his time for many years.
One of the first problems taken up at his instigation was the
improvement of methods of measuring and recording the direct

intensity of solar radiation, and its variation from time to time.

There is a long correspondence with Balfour Stewart from 1882 to
1888 on the construction and testing of actinometers designed by
the latter. Stokes had a keen view of the importance of the

subject, and was very sanguine that important results would come
out of it*. His energy may be learned from the published Reports
of the Solar Physics Committee, extracts from which are repro
duced in Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. pp. 125 -- 139, and in
Vol. II. of the present collection.

     In 1891-2 he was engaged in a prolonged correspondence with

H. F. Blanford, F.R.S., the Meteorologist of the Government of
India, who was then in this country conducting experiments with
Violle's type of actinometer, with the object of testing its re
liability for use by ordinary non-expert observers. These letters,
which would amount to about 30 pages of print, evolve a sort of

treatise on the objects to be aimed at, and the defects to be

avoided, in obtaining a continuous measure of the total Solar
activity as received at the Earth. Though Balfour Stewart's
second type of instrument, fully analyzed as to its principles and
performance by Sir George Stokes in a report to the British

Association in 1872 f, had worked satisfactorily, and though
electric differential methods of easier application have since been

successfully elaborated by Angstrom and others, these considera
tions must still repay attention.

      · Cf. supra, p. 241.

   t " On the best methods of measuring the direct intensity of Solar Radiation,"

Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. pp. 243--253.

246 MEASUREMENT OF SOLAR RADIATION

    A series of promising tests of the second Stewart actinometer
was made by Prof. H. McLeod, F.R.S. at Coopers Hill and con
tinued by Mr W. E. Wilson, F.R.S., in 1896, at his observatory at

Daramona, Westmeath, with Stokes' active advice and cooperation.
     After a period of intermission, activity in the subject has now

revived. The Royal Society has appointed a Committee, with
Prof. Callendar as Chairman, to whom the income of their Gunning
Fund has been assigned, to work out reliable self-recording methods

of observations such as may be put into extensive operation in the
meteorological services of Great Britain and India. The Inter
national Union for Solar Research, organized about the same

time by Prof. Hale and having Prof. Schuster as Chairman of
Committee, is also promoting determinations on the basis of

Angstrom's instrument.

My dear Dr Schuster,                22 Jan. 1884.

            I had intended to have written to you a few words

relative to your letter in reply to my enquiries about the Eclipse

Report.

   I never took my theory of the possible effect of a difference of

radiation from the sun, according to its state, as possibly occasioning

electric discharges constituting the aurora, as being more than
a more or less plausible conjecture. Still, it is not so easily to be

disposed of by considering the smallness of any change in the

total radiation as we receive it at the surface of the earth, or
even on a high mountain. A mere increase of total radiation
would have little effect. For no effect would be produced by

radiations with respect to which the air was perfectly transparent.
Now, it is very transparent, not merely with regard to the violet,

but to rays of higher refrangibility for some considerable way

beyond....

            Theory of Lubrication.

     The new light thrown on the principles of the lubrication of
machinery by the results of the late Mr Beauchamp Tower's
experiments, conducted about 1883-4 on behalf of the Institution

of Civil Engineers, naturally claimed Prof. Stokes' interest and
attention. In his Presidential Address to the British Association,

IMontreal, Aug. 1884 (Scientific Papers, Vol. ii. p. 344), Lord Ray-

leigh independently mentioned this subject. "We may, believe,

THEORY OF LUBRICATION OF JOURNALS                                          247

expect from Prof. Stokes a further elucidation of the processes in

volved." See also the investigation of Osborne Reynolds, Phil.
Trans., 1886. The letter which follows is the only record of

Prof. Stokes' investigation that has been found.

To BEAUCHAMP TOWER, M. Inst. C.E.

Dear Sir,                                   21 April, 1884.

      I An investigation submitted to me by Mr Walter Browne,

which believe is going to be published, called my attention to

your interesting report on friction experiments in the November

number of the Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical

Engineers. I thought I would try what would be the results to

which we should be conducted by the application of the known

equations of motion of a viscous fluid, which in the present case

are very much simplified, ^since the inertia of the lubricant does

not sensibly come into account.

     My investigations lead me to some numerical calculations

I Iwhich have not worked out; nor have time for it at present, as

my lectures are close at hand. A good deal of light, however,

Iseems to be thrown upon the results of the experiments -- mean,

on the causes of what was observed. Thus, the considerable

pressure in the film of oil under the brass comes out. It appears

that the point of nearest approach of the surfaces is by no means
directly under the point of bearing,--as I may call
                                 if                      that              the

                                                     it,
                                                                      is,
point where the line of the resultant weight cuts the surface, --but

considerably in advance of that. Thus we suppose the journal

to be going round in the direction of the hands of a watch, whereas
the point of bearing will be at the hour-figure XII, the point of

nearest approach of the surfaces will be away towards the hour-

figure ill; don't say so far away asm. Hence when the direction
is a is I
of rotation changed, the point of nearest approach   is  shifted alto

gether to the other side of the hour-figure XII. Hence when the

journal has been revolving for some time in one direction, so that

the metals get worn to fit, so that they are no longer in contact

here and there, but separated by a film of oil, and the friction

thereby reduced, --on now reversing the rotation they come in

contact in new place, and have to wear themselves to fit before

the friction reduced to its normal amount.

248 THEORETICAL SUGGESTIONS ON LUBRICATION

My theory explains, not only the greater facility of lubricating

a crank than a journal, which was mentioned and explained in the

paper or discussion, but also the greater facility of lubricating the

axle of the quadrant lever of a pump, which was mentioned but

not explained.

   I am disposed to think that your syphon lubricator leaves

nothing to be desired in point of lubrication, and that the reason

why a higher friction was obtained with it than with the oil bath

was, not a defect in the system of lubrication, but the cutting
Iaway of the brass. For I am led to regard the side portions of
the brass as very important.  have not however as yet worked
this out, though I see the way to do it. The calculations however
Iwould take more time than can give at present.

   I Ithought it well to inform you of what had been doing, in

case you should be going on with your experiments. For in

carrying out the experiments it is well to have any suggestions

that theory may indicate.

There must have been considerable generation of heat in the

film, and the journal probably got hotter than the oil in the bath.

Might it not be well to get a pit drilled in the axis of the journal

deep enough to hold the bulb and a little of the stem of a small

thermometer?

   I thought it well to communicate to you these preliminary
Iindications of theory, as cannot at present work the thing fully

out on account of my lectures.

                         I am, dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                              G. G. STOKES.

           From Prof. E. WIEDEMANN.

                                                        Erlangen.

Dear Sir,                     18 July, 1887.

               Please accept first my best thanks for your so very kind

letters.

   I should like to observe that it is not a solution in glycerine

itself that showed me phosphorescence, but one in gelatine added
with glycerine. Experiments with gelatine and water gave no

Isure results, as the borders dried more quickly than the interior ;

and was not sure if the observed phosphorescence did not come

            FLUORESCENCE OF METALLIC VAPOURS                 249

from the former. By an addition of glycerine this difficulty is

avoided.

     The experiments on the infra-red have been made by Becquerel,

Ibut he has not tried the same substances as myself. These have

from their anomalous dispersion a special interest.

   I am now very busy at work about fluorescence and phos
I Iphorescence. As soon as have got results shall take the liberty

of giving notice of them to you, who have laid the foundations for
us younger workers in this chapter.

                     I am, dear Sir, yours most obedient,

                                                      E. WIEDEMANN.

Dear Professor Wiedemann,                    31 Dec., 1895.

                     I write to thank you and your colleague

Mr Schmidt for several most interesting papers on fluorescence,

the last of them, on the fluorescence of the vapours of potassium

and sodium, in some respects the most interesting of all, not only
for its very great importance in relation to astrophysics, but

also for its bearing on the theory of fluorescence. I wrote to
IMr Lockyer to ask him if he had seen the last, saying that

regarded it as of great importance in relation to solar physics.

He telegraphed to me, asking me for the reference, saying that he

had looked into the Annalen, but could find no paper with that

title. IYou were so good as to send me two copies, so answered

his letter, sending him one.

But the earlier papers you sent me are also of very great
Iinterest.
            had often thought that perhaps something interesting

might come out of the examination of a fluorescent substance in

Ithe gaseous form, if it could be obtained in such a form without

the use of too high a temperature ; but feared that in most cases

the substance would be decomposed, or that the temperature

required to volatilise it might, even without decomposition, be

unfavourable to fluorescence, as is the case, for instance, with a

bead of microcosmic salt (phosphate of soda and ammonia) con
taining a little sesqui-oxide of uranium, which when taken out of

the jet of flame from a blowpipe is not fluorescent, but becomes
Ivery strongly so on cooling. From accounts
                                             had read of the
behaviour of the substance, I thought that perhaps diethylo-

phenylamine might give a chance, but it is not a substance to be

250 FLUORESCENCE OF GASES

Iobtained in commerce.  certainly had no idea that so many

Isubstances as you mention would show fluorescence in the gaseous

condition. Nor should ever have imagined that complex organic

Isubstances would have sustained an electric discharge without
being immediately decomposed. Nor should  have imagined

that such a chemically simple substance as potassium or sodium

Iin the gaseous state would have shown fluorescence.

        need perhaps hardly say that Kirchhoffs law as to the

equivalence of emission and absorption is only established for the

case in which you have the same temperature all round, and

matter all round sufficiently thick or opaque to prevent radiation

from passing through it. It does not necessarily hold good when,

as in experiments with fluorescence, the radiation comes in within

a certain solid angle, but emission takes place in all directions.
     P.S. -- 1895 is just out : a happy new year to you.

Hochgeehrter Herr!                        10 Januar 1896.

                   Haben Sie zunächst den allerherzlichsten Dank für

Ihre so freundlichen Zeilen. Dass die Resultate gerade Ihr
Interesse erregt haben, ist für Dr Schmidt und mich von hohem

Wert.

     Es scheint, als ob sich allgemein der Satz aufstellen lässt :
Jeder Körper fluoresciert, sobald er nur hinreichend absorbiert

und dafür gesorgt wird, dass die Dämpfung innerhalb seiner
Moleküle hinlänglich klein ist.

     Bei einer grossen Zahl anorganischer Substanzen ist uns der
Nachweis der Fluorescenz gelungen, indem wir sie in festen
Körpern lösten, so bei Mangansulfat. Einem Schüler von mir
ist derselbe Nachweis für Eisensulfat, Nickelsulfat u.a.m. geglückt.
Herr Dr Schmidt wird in einer demnächst erscheinenden Arbeit
zeigen, dass man dasselbe Ziel bei festen Lösungen organischer
Substanzen erreichen kann.

     Durch diese Nachweise ist dann die Fluorescenz aus dem

einer nur vereinzelt auftretenden Erscheinung zu einer ganz
allgemeinen geworden, die nur durch sekundäre Umstände ver
hindert wird, unter gewöhnlichen Verhältnissen zu Tage zu
treten.

    Mir scheint überhaupt, als ob die Durchforschung der von

mir als Luminescenz zusammengefassten Strahlungserscheinungen

FLUORESCENT SPECTRA  251

gegenüber der reinen Temperaturstrahlung immer mehr in den
Vordergrund treten muss. Die letztere stellt einen idealen
Grenzfall dar.

    Versuche über die Fluorescenz des Na, K Dampfes, solche

über Electro-Luminescenz an diesen Dämpfen, am Cd, Zn, Hg

Dampf lehrten uns übrigens, dass selbst bei einatomigen Gasen
der Leuchtmechanismus ein weit complicierterer ist, als man
gewöhnlich annimmt.

      Auch unter dem Einfluss von Entladungen erhält man bei
Natrium* und Kalium continuierliche Spectren in grün respl. rot.
Beim Quecksilber treten 4 Spectren auf. Bei Zink und Cadmium

scheinen ein Linien -- ein Banden--und ein continuierliches vor

handen zu sein.

     Wir können im Allgemeinen die Bedingungen für das
Auftreten dieser Spectren aufstellen. Dem Banden-Spectrum
entspricht stets relativ viel Dampf (der Druck beträgt aber nur
wenige Millimeter) und mittelstarker Energie-Zufuhr.

     Beim Hg Dampf scheint ausserdem bei bestimmter Art der

Anregung der Leuchtenergie-Inhalt, d. h. der auf innere Bewegung
enkommende Anteil der Energie, ein relativ grosser Bruchteil der
gesammten Energie zu sein. Es steht dies in einem gewissen
Widerspruch zu den Folgerungen der Kinetischen Gastheorie.

      Eine Erklärungsmöglichkeit scheint mir in der Annahme zu

liegen, dass die absorbierten Strahlen zunächst schnell gedämpfte
Schwingungen im Molekül hervorrufen, die eventuell sekundär

zu langsam gedämpften Veranlassung geben. Das Molekül wäre
mit einem Lecher'schen Drahtsystem zur Erzeugung electrischer

Resonanzschwingungen zu vergleichen.

     Vielleicht darf ich noch erwähnen, dass uns unsere Unter

suchungen auf einen noch wenig beachteten Spectraltypus geführt
haben, der aus einem continuierlichen Band besteht, in dem

einzelne Emmissions Minima hervortreten. Er findet sich vor

Allem bei Verbindungsspectren, von denen wir infolge eines
einfachen Kunstgriffes eine ganze Anzahl in Entladungsröhren
untersuchen konnten. Ein junger Engländer aus Oxford, Herr
Jones, soll einen Teil dieser Versuche weiterführen. Indem ich

Ihre gütigen Neujahrswunsche auf das beste erwidere verbleibend

                               Hochachtungsvoll Ihr ergebenst,
                                                          E. WIEDEMANN.

    * Cf. however the recent advances by R. W. Wood, Phil. Mag. 1905.

252 INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS BUREAU

                    Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

Dear Mr Grubb,                      27 July, 1887.

I do not know whether you have had much to say

to measures of length or weight of extreme precision, your

measures being mostly angular. Perhaps, however, when you

were in Paris for the Conference about Astronomical Photography

you may have come across something about the Comiti Inter

nationale des Poids et Mesures....

Now the point is this. A few years ago England joined the

Comité, paying a lump sum of about £1500 in lieu of back

expenses, and an annual subscription of £318 according to the

tariff, a subscription which, in a few years, would be likely to be

halved when the initial work of the establishment was done, and

the maintenance would consequently become less expensive. For

this England has the right of getting comparisons of standards

made at the establishment with all the accuracy that can be

secured, and of purchasing standard metres or kilogrammes. Now

with a view to retrenchment the Government are, or had been,

thinking of retiring. England would then be shut out from the

use of the office, or rather establishment, for comparing such

standards as might be required, or from purchasing verified

standards.

     Of course we have a Standards Office of our own, but it is in

a makeshift sort of building, and the appliances, especially those

for securing a constant temperature, are by no means such as can

be supplied at the Breteuil establishment.

   If from your own experience, or independently of your own

experience, you should have formed a distinct opinion as to the

desirableness or inutility of England's continuing to belong to the

Comite, I should feel obliged if you would kindly let me have

the benefit of it.                  I am, &c.,

                                    G. G. STOKES.

    In the year 1888 Prof. Stokes officiated in a capacity then

novel, as "independent reporter on experiments made in con
formity with the order of the High Court of Justice" in the
matter of the patent case, Edison v. Holland, involving the con
struction of filaments for incandescent electric lamps. After

PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPLORATION OF NEBULAE                         253

witnessing experiments conducted by both sides in laboratories
selected by them, Prof. Stokes drew up a lengthy and detailed
report for the Court, which was incorporated in the official docu
ments of the suit.

Dr ISAAC ROBERTS, F.R.S., on Photography of Nebulae.

              Kennessee, Maghull, near Liverpool.

My dear Sir,  15 February, 1889.

As soon as the clouds will permit I will try a few

experiments with the telescope in order to prove the correctness

of your inference as to the cause of the diffraction effects by
the plate holder and supports, and will then send you the

proofs.

    I am sending for your acceptance three enlarged photographs

of nebulae in Orion, that you may see the effects of different
exposures in the development of the nebulosity. The one dated
4th inst. with exposure of 3h 25m throws much new light upon the
extensions in space of this nebula, and it is now seen that the
three nebulae M 42 and 43 and L1180 either form one vast

I Inebula or that separate nebulae are overlapping each other.
   inferred by a photograph which took in Nov. 1886 (see paper
in parcel) that this extension would probably be shown to exist,

and the February photo supplies the evidence that it is so.

                                                      Yours very truly,

                                                     ISAAC ROBERTS.

To Dr WILLIAM POLE, F.R.S.

              COuRTOWN, NEAR GoREY, IRELANd.

My dear Sir,                              Aug. 22nd, 1889.

              *»**

           It is a curious question how far to you a colour is more

and more wanting in illumination, according as to us it is more

and more red. I think your colour- top experiments will enable

a normal-eyed person to decide, by trying whether your matches,
while to a normal-eyed person of very different colours, are yet

matches to us as regards intensity, i.e. illumination. It will be

254 DEFINITION OF PRIMARY COLOUR SENSATIONS

difficult for us to judge on account of the differences of colour.

I Iam sending for a colour-top to try, as did not bring mine here

with me.

    It would be well to put in the proof from whom you got the

colour-top (Mr Bryson, of Edinburgh ?); because the value of your
colour-top experiments depends in some measure upon their being

reproducible, and we could not trust to the identity of coloured

papers obtained from different sources.

There can be no doubt whatsoever that blue and yellow

(i.e. what to us are blue and yellow) make white, i.e. corresponding
to a given very good blue, there can be found a very good yellow
which, mixed with it in proper proportion, will make white. Of

course it is not every blue and yellow which by their mixture

will give white ; the nearest approach to white will be either

a very dilute red or a very dilute green, according to the original
Ihues. But cannot agree with you in your inference (Art. lo-)
that if this be so there must be four primary colours ; or rather
I should agree with you or not according to the sense in which
Ifthe expression " primary colours " is understood.
                                                     you use the
Iterm in Maxwell's sense, then think your conclusion invalid,

and for this reason, that you assume blue and yellow to be two

of the primaries, whereas we have no means of knowing what two

at least of the three primaries are ; for the phenomena of colour
blindness render it very highly probable that one of the primaries

                       I
                                          is
                                                          is,

                                                       I
is the red, which to you is invisible ; that   that the fullest red

of that hue which we can produce the primary red plus white.

But you mean by primary colours standard colours selected
if

to a certain extent (as believe) conventionally, then agree
with you that we require four, in order to describe with sufficient

readiness all other colours as mixtures of them.

      What you say about the apparent change of hue of pinks

(in Art. 19 H) renders an additional experiment highly desirable.
The result got by laying on thinly on white paper pigment,
                                                     a
which thickly laid on gives a crimson, not strictly the mixturea
                          is
                                 a

                                           is
of the crimson with white. The following experiment would show

whether the observed result anything more than the common,

almost universal, phenomenon of change of hue with change

in the thickness of the coloured medium looked through.

Having chosen a crimson pigment which when laid on more

and more thinly gives  a  pink (to you almost neutral), passing

           THEIR RELATIVE INTENSITIES PROBABLY VARIABLE 255

through the strict neutral from dull yellow to dull blue, paint the
colour full (at least fully enough to give a dirty yellow), and then
see whether the hue changes to dull blue by what is strictly
mixture with white. The mixture may be obtained by combining
a crimson and white disk on the colour-top, successively diminish
ing the crimson sector, or by reflection at and transmission through
a plate of glass, varying the inclination, &c.

     The result, whatever it be, of thus strictly mixing crimson
with white ought to be mentioned.

                      I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,

                                                               G. G. STOKES.

                        L. C. C, 4 Feb. 1892.

Dear Captain Abney,

                 If in normal vision there are three fundamental

sensations of colour, X, Y, Z, and if in a colour-blind person one
of these, Z, is wanting, while the remaining sensations X, Y are
the same as normal, and if we could draw curves representing for

each sensation the distribution in the spectrum, we might at first
sight be disposed to say, since the two sensations which the C.B. has

are identical with two out of the three which are normal, the curves
Xfor and Y in the C.B. would agree with the curves for the same
Isensations in the N.E. person. ...But
                                        think a priori con

siderations show that most probably this is not true, unless as

a sort of rough approximation. Light must be absorbed in order

to produce the sensation of vision, and the most probable ex

planation of the mode of stimulation of the nerves of vision
is that there are three different substances, having different modes

of absorption in passing along the spectrum, the result of the

absorption of light by which is to stimulate the nerves which

excite the three fundamental sensations respectively. Now as thez it,
light travels on in the place where the absorption takes place,

all three substances absorb but in different proportions, according

to the part of the spectrum. Call the substances x, z. In one
                                        y,
place (P) in the spectrum might absorb feebly or not at all,y
                                                      Q
Pwhile at another place (Q) z might absorb powerfully. At then

the removal of would leave the absorptions by x and the same
   z
        Q
as before, but at the removal of would leave more light forz

Px and to absorb, hence the ratio of the ordinates at and for
y

256 GIFFORD LECTURES AT EDINBURGH

Xthe curve, and similarly for the Y curve, might very well be

altered by the removal of z. Hence it is probable that neither

the X curve nor the Y curve would be the same (considering only

the ratio of the ordinates for different parts of the spectrum) for
C.B. as for N.E. This may easily be illustrated by conceiving
how light would be absorbed by a mixture of an ammoniacal
solution of a copper salt with chromate of ammonia, and taking
the total absorption by each constituent of the mixture as the
analogue of the stimulating effect of light for one kind of nerves,
and then considering how the curves of absorption for either
constituent would be affected by the removal of the other

constituent.
     We have no right whatever to assume, nor is it probably true,

that the same luminosity is produced by the expenditure of the
same amount of radiant energy of given refrangibility, whether it

be expended in the stimulation of sensation X or For Z. Yours, &c.

After considerable hesitation Prof. Stokes accepted in 1890

the office of Gifford Lecturer on Natural Theology in the University
of Edinburgh for the period 1890 -- 92. His scruples find expres

sion in the preface to his published volumes of lectures, and are

referred to in the following letter from the Principal of the

University of Edinburgh.               13 May, 1890.

    Dear Sir George,

IThank you very much for your letter.  quite under
Istood the matter as you say ; but, as mentioned to Prof. Tait,
I was still anxious for such a definite acceptance as your letter

now conveys.              Yours very truly,

                                       W. MUIR.

Leave-taking of Royal Society ; from Presidential Address,

                                        Nov. 30, 1890.

The proceedings of to-day bring to an end my long tenure

Iof office in the Royal Society, which has extended now over

thirty-six years, during the last five of which have held the
Ihonourable office of your President.
                                       am deeply sensible of the
Ikindness which have always experienced from the Fellows, and

INVESTIGATION OF LIGHTHOUSE ILLUMINANTS      257

of the indulgence with which they have overlooked my deficiencies,

due in part to the pressure of other work. It cannot be without

Ia strong feeling of regret that come to the close of an official
I Iconnexion with the Society that has now extended over full half

my life. But feel that it is time that should make way for

Iothers, and that should not wait for those infirmities which

advancing years so often bring in their train ; besides which there
are personal reasons which led me to request the members of the
Council not to vote for my nomination for re-election as your
President.

     And now it only remains to me, as virtually my last official
act as your President, to perform the pleasing duty of delivering
the medals, which the Society has to award, to the respective
recipients of those honours.

           Lighthouse Illumination.

     The following letters refer to a Report, made by Sir G. Stokes
to the Board of Trade, on some controversial matters dealt with
by the Trinity House Report on Lighthouse Illuminants.

           33 to 36 Capel Street, Dublin.

Dear Sir,  27 Feb. 1891.

I write to ask you to be so kind as to enable me to

correct a mistake which has got into the minds of some of my

friends with respect to your report on the Trinity House South

Foreland experiments. You were asked by the Board of Trade to

report whether the results arrived at by the Trinity House as

stated in their report were justified by the record of the experi

ments contained therein. Inasmuch as in your report you advised

that gas might be used with advantage in certain cases, and the

Trinity House made no such recommendation, your report

answered in the negative the question to which the Board of

Trade asked you to reply ; but you also stated that for specially

Iimportant sea lights, the experiments showed that electricity

offers the greatest advantage. This, as understood, was merely

quoting the words of the Trinity House, and in effect saying

that the record of the experiments bore out their conclusions in

this respect; but the notion has got abroad that you and your

colleagues yourselves made experiments and tested the electric

s. b. i.                                 17

258 GAS VERSUS ELECTRIC LIGHT IN FOG

light against other lights in foggy weather, and as the result

of these experiments gave your opinion that the electric light
Iwas the best light for lighthouses in foggy weather.
                                                       have
pointed out to some of my friends that although I implored the

Board of Trade to ask you to make these experiments they would

not consent and you never made any such investigation, and that

Iunless you had personally done so was quite sure you would not

make any pronouncement on the subject.

   IIn the interests of truth and fair play will you kindly send me

a line to say that am right in this respect.

Yours truly,

       JOHN R. WIGHAM.

   I said that you were only giving your opinion as to how far

the record of the Trinity House report justified its conclusion, and

not giving any opinion as to the experiments themselves, and
that my opinion (which of course has nothing to do with the
matter) was that had you made such an investigation you would
have pronounced against the electric light, my opinion being
formed not only because the experiments at South Foreland were

to my own knowledge incomplete and inadequate, and really
pointed in that direction, but because my experience has been
that the electric light in fog is much inferior to gas.

     The extraordinarily foggy weather which has prevailed in

London during the past winter has given remarkable evidence
of the uselessness of the electric light in fog. You yourself have

probably noticed that while during the dense fogs we have had,
the electric lights were like farthing candles, the generally
diffused glow of a number of gas-lights in shop windows and

Rother places did give a certain amount of useful illumination.

                                                               J. W.

                                                              L. C. C, 28 Feb. 1891.

     We made no experiments of our own on the relative efficiency
of the electric light and gas in fog; we judged by what we found
in the report, united of course with anything that we might

Ihappen to know of our own knowledge bearing on the subject.

        do not think that any conclusion in this respect can be
drawn from their relative behaviour in a London fog, into which
smoke so largely enters. In thinking of any possible future
experiments to be economically carried on, it often struck me

          IMPORTANT CHEMICAL EFFECTS OF IMPURITIES                  259

that while they might be near some town or village, for the sake
of a gas supply, it was indispensable that the town should be

quite a small one, so as not to furnish any amount of smoke
worth mentioning.

    In haze the electric light is far more cut down than that of
gas or oil, as is mentioned in the report itself ; but it does not

appear that in dense fog there is any great difference, provided
the fog be clean.

          Investigations in Optical Chemistry.

My dear Sir,                9 Fitzroy Square, Dec. 2, 1857.

           Many thanks for your note.
You are quite right in reluctantly admitting the identity of

the three substances in question by the deportment of the sub

stances with ether alone. It is extraordinary how the presence

of a small amount of impurity often alters the characters of a

substance. Satisfactorily the question can be solved only by the

preparation of the bodies in a state of purity, by their ultimate

analysis and by a careful comparison of the characters of the

bodies thus individualised.

    This is almost more than a physicist would undertake I fear,
and I would therefore advise you to bring the subject before

the Chemical Society in the form which it has at present, and

suggestively stating the optical observations which you have
made and which will give very considerable assistance to any

Chemist, actually engaged in the inquiry of these substances, or

Iinclined to take up their study.

       am sorry that I am unable to take the matter in hand

myself, but my leisure is very limited and the perfect chemical

elucidations of the subject may require weeks and even months.

The sooner you send your notice to the Chemical Society the

better*.

                            Yours very sincerely,

G. G. Stokes, Esq., F.R.S.                          A. W. HOFMANN.

* There are three communications ' On the existence of a second crystallisable
J.substance (Paviin) in the bark of the horse-chestnut,' Q.
                                                             Chem. Soc, 1859;
J.'Note on Paviin,' Q. Chem. Soc, 1860; 'On the optical characters of Purpurine
J.and Alizarine,' appended to a paper by Dr E. Schunck, Q.
                                                             Chem. Soc., 1860.

See Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. iv. pp. 112--126.

                                                             17--2

260 DECOMPOSITION PRODUCTS OF CHLOROPHYLL

                  Kersal, Manchester.

Dear Sir George,  8th August, 1891.

                  Accept my best thanks for your kind letter of the

I3rd inst. Having obtained my MS. from the Royal Society

Ihave suppressed the passage marked by you on p. 13 and sub

stituted one, in which state, as you suggest, that you had
informed me that you had found phyllocyanin and phylloxanthin

Ito be derived from blue and yellow chlorophyll respectively*.

It is possible, think, that the body with one band in the green

is the first product derived from yellow chlorophyll, and that my

phylloxanthin is formed by the further action of the acid on the

Ifirst product.
        agree with you that the difficulty experienced in obtaining

these substances in a state of purity arises from the presence

of fat.

   IOn referring to my paper find that I do not speak of crys

tallising phylloxanthin, but say on the contrary that it is almost
Ialways amorphous even under the microscope.
                                              believe if quite

pure it would crystallise in brown needles. In my letter to you

I used the word crystallise inadvertently.
   I think you are right in supposing that the change seen when

green leaves are treated with boiling water is due to the presence

of a minute quantity of acid, which acts on the chlorophyll and

causes decomposition.

   I believe that by the prolonged action of hydrochloric acid

phyllocyanin undergoes some change.

                                  I am, yours very truly,

                  EDW. SCHUNCK.

    * E. Schunck, " Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll, No. IV." Roy.
Soc. Proc, June 16, 1891, pp. 302 -- 317; cf. p. 311. " In a written communication
which Sir G. Stokes has kindly addressed to me, he informs me that he has
satisfied himself that by decomposition with acids blue chlorophyll yields phyllo
cyanin, whereas yellow chlorophyll gives phylloxanthin. This interesting fact affords
a striking confirmation of the views held by him regarding the complex nature of
chlorophyll. "

     In the early period of fluorescence there was much correspondence between
Prof. Stokes and Dr Schunck on the analysis by this means of organic bodies.

CONDITIONS OF FORMATION OF CHLOROPHYLL  261

                                                                              30 July, 1891.

    Dear Lord Rayleigh,

              I have to thank you for your note of the 26th inst.

informing me that my paper on chlorophyll, pt. 4, will be published
in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, also for the Report of

ISir G. Stokes and a letter from him accompanying it. Having

read Sir G. Stokes' remarks and critique, think it would be
well for me to see the MS. again before it is sent to the printers,

Iso that may have an opportunity of making some alterations

or additions, as the case may be, in accordance with the suggestions
of Sir G. Stokes.

   I think it would be desirable in the interests of science, if

Sir G. Stokes would embody his remarks and suggestions, which
are of very great value, in a " Note," or still better in a separate
communication which should set forth his views, not only on my
experiments, but on the subject in general, a subject on which
his researches have thrown so much light.

                               I am, yours very truly,

                                                         EDW. SCHUNCK.

     The following memorandum has been found among Sir G.
Stokes' papers.

According to Dr MacNab, plants containing green chlorophyll

grains, when placed in darkness, partial or complete, change colour

from the destruction of the chlorophyll. Sachs says-- Text Book
of Botany, page 669 -- that in the leaves of rapidly growing an-
Ifgiosperms the absorption and disappearance of the chlorophyll
takes place in a few days.  the temperature be high, he adds,

cactus stems with slow growth and the... of solaginella remain

green for months in the dark.

    It is probably true also of conifers, as they have been kept

in the dark during the winter months without injury, as at Berlin

where they were protected by mats, &c.

   IfSachs says, page 665, " the temperature is sufficiently high

the green colouring substance is formed in the cotyledons of

conifers, and in the leaves of ferns as well as under the influence

of light.... The formation of the green colouring matter in the

cotyledons of angiosperms does require light, but in both cases

it ceases in a low temperature."

262 SUPERIOR VISIBILITY OF BLUE RAYS

     The following letters, kindly communicated through Prof.
Sir G. H. Darwin, are part of a correspondence with Rev. Canon
Russell, Geashill Rectory, King's County, who drew Prof. Stokes'
attention to an appearance as of a luminous vapour rising from
some flowers, which, after insolation, have been taken into the dark.

Dear Canon Russell,  4, Windsor Terrace, Malahide.

                                         25 Sept. 1891.

             IThe marigolds arrived this morning by the morning's

post. It was a bright sunny morning, and put them in a tumbler

of water and placed it on a window-sill facing the South. About

I12 or 1 the sky became overcast, and took the tumbler into
a room in which I had closed the shutters. I could not see

Ianything of the nature of a luminous vapour, nor any moving

lights. But saw one thing which perhaps is what you refer to,

Ithough it is only a conjecture that it may. When the room was

nearly but not quite dark, saw certain parts of the flower

appearing as if they were faintly luminous. This was not seen

Iwhen the room was perfectly dark, nor when went first into the

room. In that case it was not seen till the eyes had got sensitive

Iby remaining in darkness for a little time.

      do not know whether what I saw is the thing you describe,
Ibut the origin of what saw is plain euough. It depends on the

enormously different sensitiveness of the eye to rays of high
and low refrangibility. Suppose you start with high and low rays
of about the same intensity as far as the eye can judge, and then

reduce them both enormously, but in the same proportion. The

high rays will be seen long, long after the low ones cease to be

visible. In order that the eye should have full sensitiveness for
these rays of high refrangibility, it must be given some rest in
darkness or near darkness, after it has been exposed to light of

common intensity.

      The yellow and orange petals absorb the more refrangible part
of the spectrum. But some petals are paler, approaching some
what to white. Hence, when the flower as a whole is viewed in

a room nearly but not quite dark, the orange and full yellow petals
are not seen. But the petals or parts of petals which approach to
white reflect no inconsiderable portion of the blue rays. Hence

              VISION ENFEEBLED IN VERY WEAK LIGHT             263

these are seen by the sensitive eye, though the other flowers, or
the rest of the flower, appear dark.

The evening light absorbs the rays of high refrangibility, more

so a great deal (in proportion to the rays of low refrangibility)

than the rays of the sun when low, or than the rays of a lamp or

candle. Hence the faint evening light would be specially favour

able for the exhibition of the phenomenon if it really be what
I have suggested.
   I always felt a difficulty about the phenomenon  not being

seen in perfect darkness, supposing its origin to be a luminous

vapour.

I If from my description you have reason to think that what

  have described is not the same thing that you saw, it would be

well not to quote my letter, as it would be only misleading.  But
I Iwhether what
              saw is the same as what you mentioned,             do

not know.

              Yours sincerely,

              G. G. STOKES.

                                                                                                        27 Sept. 1891.

I Igot your letter to-night, and will write a few lines in reply

before going to bed.                            by such a very

   I thought that you would hardly be deceived
Isimple thing as that which mentioned....

     Your inability to see it in perfect darkness seems fatal to my
theory, unless it can be explained in this way :-- the luminosity is

presumably from the description very faint, and in perfect darkness

there is nothing by which you can guide the axes of the eyes as to

where to look. Thus not merely is the point of the field, where

the luminosity would come, unknown, but the luminosity would be

reduced to half intensity. For the chances are that the axes of

the two eyes converge to a nearer or more distant point, so that

the luminous spot, if it were bright enough, would be seen double,

as the images would fall on non-corresponding points of the two

retinas. Thus instead of one faint image you would have two, in

different parts of the apparent field, and the intensity would be
divided between them, and might then become too faint to be

seen at all.

264 VARIOUS SCIENTIFIC CORRESPONDENCE

    In the period 1881-4 there was considerable correspondence

with Mr D. E. Hughes in relation to the experimental papers on
magnetism which he was then communicating to the Royal
Society.

    From 1876 to 1884 there is a correspondence with Sir J.

Conroy relating to his investigations on metallic reflexion and
the absorption of quasi- metallic substances*.

    In 1891 there was correspondence with Dr 0. Wiener re
garding his experiments on stationary light waves, and their
bearing on the direction of the vibration in polarized light.

Among other things, experimenting by means of fluorescence was
suggested, which was carried out independently at a later period
by Nernst and Drude at Gottingen.

     To this time also belongs a correspondence with Dr V. Schumann
on the discovery by the latter of a further ultra-violet expansion
of the spectra of gases, to which air is not transparent.

    In these and otber cases, only the letters to Prof. Stokes are

available.

The following letter from Prof. Arthur Smithells, F.R.S., is

included here by his permission. During the same year (1892),
to which he refers, Prof. Stokes was much interested in the

spectroscopic investigations carried on by his colleague Prof.
Liveing, at Cambridge.

              The University, Leeds.

Dear Larmor,  July 6, 1905.

Certainly you may publish any of Stokes' letters to me.
I have been intending for long past to re-read his letters and
Iselect some of the more interesting ones for you.
                                                    will do so

within the next few days. Meanwhile it may perhaps be of

Iservice to you if tell you the following facts.

In 1892, a propos of some publications of mine about hydro

carbon flames, a correspondence took place between Sir G. Stokes

and Prof. Armstrong, and this was subsequently published by

Prof. Armstrong in the Proceedings of the Chemical Society f. In

one of the letters Stokes had suggested that the much disputed

"Swan spectrum" of hydrocarbon flames was, in view of my

* For a theoretical discussion, see R. C. Maclaurin, Roy. Soc. Proc., 1906.

t Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. p. 233.

THE MECHANISM OF RADIATION IN GASES                 265

Iexperiments, probably due to carbon monoxide.      was at that

time but poorly versed in the literature of spectrum analysis, but

I had got the idea that gaseous spectra were much more likely

to be due to disturbances occurring during the formation and

decomposition of molecules than to purely thermal actions, and
I had concluded that the Swan spectrum was due to the formation

Iof carbon monoxide. Although did not know Stokes personally
Iat that time, ventured to write and submit to him my views on
Ithe genesis of spectra.
                          received an immediate reply, and a long

correspondence ensued, which lasted in fact almost to the time of
Ihis death.
             also had a considerable number of long talks with

him on the subject. He was of opinion that chemical combination

was a source of spectra, inasmuch as the new-born molecule (as
he was fond of calling it) would be in a state of special agitation ;

but he firmly believed that heat alone could produce gaseous

spectra*. When in 1892 E. Pringsheim sought to prove that all

line spectra in flames were due to chemical action, he read the

papers with eagerness, but he repudiated the conclusions with
Iequal warmth.
                endeavoured to defend the Pringsheim view,
Iwhich accorded with my own, and made a great many experi

Iments, many of them suggested by Stokes, to test the question.

  tried a long time with sodium to see if the vapour gave the
D absorption when chemical action was excluded. He took great
interest in this and continually made suggestions. At the same

time he interested himself in all the other work we were doing

about the spectra of compounds (compounds of copper and gold)

Iand especially about the Swan spectrum. Indeed found it

difficult to keep up my end of the correspondence.

Stokes considered the fact that most gases cannot be made to

glow thermally as merely the reciprocal of the fact that they do

not absorb appreciably, and he suggested to me to use iodine

vapour and nitrogen peroxide, both of which gave a positive

result. So far as iodine is concerned this had been previously
Iobserved by Salet.
                     kept Stokes very fully informed of the work

on the Swan spectrum, and his advice was as valuable as it was

profuse. He considered the evidence connecting this spectrum

     [* His view seems however to have fluctuated : see supra, p. 94, in which he
probably means that purely thermal collisions, such as occur among the molecules

of perfect gases, are too soft to excite radiation to a sensible degree ; and tbat gases

are absorbers and therefore also radiators, of intensity depending on the surrounding

temperature in the sense of the general theory of exchanges (the thin Fraunhofer
lines having a different origin) only when they are imperfect.]

266 PERSONAL TRIBUTE

with carbon monoxide to be in the end quite convincing, and in

Ione of his last letters he says he is sure shall live to see the day

when my view (which was more justly his view) will be generally

accepted.

My relations with Stokes constitute one of the great ex

periences of my life. He seemed to me both intellectually and

morally to tower above other men, and to be free of all pettiness
of mind or character. He was willing to lend his time and his

talents without stint to anyone whom he deemed an honest

worker, and the only thing he seemed to exact in return was that

Ithere should be no fuss or effusiveness of acknowledgement.   In

the union of greatness with modesty can only name Bunsen as

his equal. Though in conversation he gave little sign of having

Iany interest but science, had many opportunities of discerning

Imore human feelings; and of the extent and manner of his personal

kindness to me should find it difficult to speak adequately.
What Stokes did for his generation can hardly be estimated. As

one of a multitude I should like gratefully and affectionately to

lay a stone upon his cairn.

                             Yours sincerely,

                                    ARTHUR SMITHELLS.

     The following partial draft of a letter does not reveal the name

of his correspondent. It is addressed from Prof. Tait's house.

My dear Sir,                 8, Belorave Crescent, Edinburgh.
                                             19 July, 1893.

             I will begin a letter to you now, and expect to continue
it from time to time. I will say nothing at present about your

solution, but confine myself to some general considerations relating

to jets. I will confine myself to the case you have taken up--

that of motion (steady) in two dimensions without external forces
Iacting.
           will also suppose, as you have done, that the jet is

symmetrical with respect to its axis. Naturally some of the ideas

will have a wider application.            The same identical

   July 20. I did not get far yesterday.

problem frequently presents itself in totally different physical

applications. In our problem, whether we think of the stream as
walled in part and free in part or as walled the whole way, the

stream function has two constant values at the boundary and at

     CONSTITUTION OF A FREE JET OF LIQUID             267

the axis; and we may figure to the mind a conducting solid of the

same form as the fluid, and having constant permanent tempera

tures at the boundary and at the axis. The intermediate stream

lines may then be replaced by isothermals. It will be convenient

to think of an infinite number of stream lines so spaced that the

flux across one interval between line and line is the same as that

for another, and consequently at a distance in the jet the lines

are equidistant and parallel. Call the fluid between two con

secutive lines a filament. In the free part of the boundary (in
the case in which some part is free, i.e. in the case of a jet) the

external filament may be of uniform thickness from minus infinity

(i.e. infinitely far in the jet) to the mouth ; for the pressure being
constant, the velocity must be also constant. Now if there be a

gentle swelling, as you have drawn in one of your figures, the

filaments in the swollen part must be thickened, as we see still

more readily if we think of the stream lines as isothermals, which

violates the condition of the external filament being of uniform

thickness throughout the free part. And even if we supposed

that the external filament preserved its uniform thickness, and

that it was only as we went inwards that the thickness increased,

still that would not do. For it is easy to prove that at the free

boundary dp/dn, n being measured along the normal, equals

DV2/R, D being the density, V the whole velocity, and R the
radius of curvature, the pressure decreasing inwards. But this

would demand that the filaments should get thinner as we go in,

whereas they get thicker. And if we say that the first filament

is of normal thickness, that the same as at infinity, then as we
     it

                                       is,
                                                     is,

                                      I

                                                                                                                            a
go in they at first get thinner, then after passing through the

normal thickness get thicker than normal well before we reach

the axis, that evidently would imply such a bizarre alteration of

thickness as could only occur near the mouth, not at a little

distance, where the motion would have got regular. In the same

way  may be shown that we cannot have a long contraction

followed by widening out again.         think suffice to show the
     These general considerations will

general character of jets.
     First, suppose that the vessel has an orifice like the end of

trumpet inverted, that with the broader end directed inwards,

and such that the tangent at the mouth has still a very consider

able inclination to the axis. Or suppose that the...

268 AWARD OF COPLEY MEDAL

    After giving up active administration at the Royal Society, on

retirement from the office of President in 1890, Sir George Stokes
continued to give his assistance for two years as Member of
Council and Vice-President. After his final withdrawal, the

Council was not slow to adopt on the first opportunity the obvious
course of proposing him for the Copley Medal, the highest award
that the Society confers. The congenial duty fell to his suc
cessor in the Presidency, and lifelong friend, Lord Kelvin, on the
next anniversary, Nov. 30, 1903, to present to him the Medal,
after adverting to his scientific achievements in the following

terms *.

   I" In presenting the Copley Medal to Sir George Stokes feel

that no 'statement of claim' is needed. Nevertheless, it is

interesting to recall to memory something of the great work that

he has done in mathematical and physical science. Fifty-two

years ago he took up the subject of fluid motion, with mathematical

power amply capable to advance on the lines of Lagrange, Fourier,

Cauchy, Poisson, in the splendid nineteenth century ' physical

mathematics,' invented and founded by those great men; and

with a wholly original genius for discovery in properties of real

matter, which enhanced the superlative beauty of the mathematical

problems by fresh views deep into the constitution of matter.

    "In the purely mathematical part of his hydro-dynamical

subject, he advanced from the ' infinitely small ' waves of Cauchy

and  Poisson to deep-sea waves of such considerable steepnesses
and  lengths and heights as are seen in nature -- on water
500  fathoms deep, or more -- after a severe gale far away from

land ; and he has shown how to carry on his mode of solution

right up to breaking waves at sea and tidal bores in shallow

water.

     " His enunciations and solutions for motion of viscous fluids,
-- rich with applications to natural phenomena, the distance of

audibility of sound, the suspension of clouds in the air, the subsi

dence of ripples on a pond and of waves on the ocean after the

cessation of wind; and rich in aids to scientific investigation,
as in the theory of the pendulum in air -- have added to hydro

dynamics a previously unknown province, in which the exceeding

difficulty of the mathematical work deserves every capable effort

          * Roy. Soc. Proc, Vol. liv. pp. 389--391.

            LORD KELVIN'S APPRECIATION OF HIS WORK         269

to advance' on account of the vast practical and scientific

               it,

                                         '
importance of the issues.
     " His instability of the motion of a viscous fluid, in the

neighbourhood of a solid, gives the key to the scientific mystery

of turbulent motion in practical hydraulics, and in wind blowing

over solid earth the hearing of sounds in the direction of the
;
                    ;
wind which are inaudible at equal distances in the contrary

direction the flow of water in rivers, culverts, and water-supply

pipes; the 'skin-resistance' of ships, the scientific consideration

of which has done so much to make 22 knots a proper speed for

travelling by sea.
     " Of true dynamical science in all these subjects Stokes' early

work was the beginning. It also first gave true views as to that

very important practical subject, the rigidity, and the resistance

against compression, of solids views which would be false  if
                                            ;
                                               '                a

majority of votes in the scientific world of 1893 could decide

between truth and error.
     " In optics and the undulatory theory of light, Stokes has been

the teacher and guide of his contemporaries. His Report to the

British Association in 1862, On Double Refraction,' showed

with perfect accuracy and clearness the outstanding difficulties,

but called special attention to the door which Green had opened
for escape from them. That Report has given the starting

impulse and essential information for nearly all that has been

done for the subject in England since its publication.
     " By his own experimental and mathematical work on the

polarisation of light by a grating, and of the light of the blue

;

      by
           it
                  is

                                                                                                               '

                                                                                           a

                                                                                                                                                                       '
sky his experimental investigation of epipolic dispersion

(or 'fluorescence'); and, perhaps more than all, by his accurate
measuring work, from which he drew an exceedingly rigorous
verification of the accuracy of Huygens' geometrical construction

for the double refraction of Iceland spar, Sir George Stokes has

done much to make the Undulatory Theory of Light sure and
            -- a codification of laws divined by Huygens and
strong as

Fresnel. But he has done more than this. He has not merely

left to mathematicians and speculative physicists   desperate

problem to find the dynamical explanation of those laws. He has

given (perhaps only in conversation) what seems to me certainly
the true clue to the dynamics of the Undulatory Theory of Light,

by pointing out that we must look not merely, or not at all, to

270 THEORY OF THE RONTGEN RAYS

change of shape of the portion of ether within a wave-length in
the motion constituting light, but also, or altogether, to its
absolute rotation*, for explaining the efficient force."

     The final years of the century were marked by the announce
ment of far-reaching discoveries in Physics in which Sir George
Stokes naturally showed deep interest, especially as he had closely
pondered over the phenomena of the electric discharge in vacuum
tubes for many years, in connexion with Sir W. Crookes' investi
gations. Selections from a long correspondence on this subject
will appear below. On the announcement of the discovery of
the Rontgen rays Stokes was not long in making up his mind
that the hypothesis of longitudinal aethereal vibrations, which
had been broached for their explanation, must be excluded. His
well-known explanation, that they differ from ordinary light in
being excited by pulses entirely irregular, like 'hedge-fire' on a
target as distinct from regular volleys, was unfolded to the

Cambridge Philosophical Society on Nov. 9, 1896f. It was

further elaborated in the Wilde Lecture delivered to the Literary

and Philosophical Society of Manchester on July 2, 1897 ; and

Prof. Lamb has recently recalled (in conversation) the force and
enthusiasm of his extempore exposition, the published report
having been drawn up subsequently from shorthand notes taken
during the lecture. The theory indeed raises questions regarding

the degree of regularity, if any, that is to be assigned to ordinary

light such as steady temperature-radiation, which cannot yet
be regarded as entirely settled. The distinctness and force of
Sir G. Stokes' convictions on these matters is illustrated in the
following note + communicated to the French Academy, June 26,
1897, which was overlooked in the collection of his scientific

papers.

     " Les Comptes rendus du 5 juillet 1897 contiennent (p. 17), une
Note ou M. G. de Metz d6crit une experience dont le resultat,
suivant lui, ne peut etre expliqué que par l'une ou l'autre de ces
deux hypotheses: ou dans un vide extreme les rayons X sont
capables de deviation magnetique, ou les rayons cathodiques

     * The most telling justification of this outcome of MacCullagh's ideas, by means
of a model of a rotational aether, described first in Comptes Rendus, 1889, is due to
Lord Kelvin himself.

    t Malh, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. p. 256 and p. 258.

     } Comptes Rendus, Vol. 125, pp. 216--218.

NATURE OF THE CATHODE RAYS  271

peuvent traverser la paroi en verre d'un tube de Crookes. Je

ne crois pas qu'aucun des termes de cette alternative contienne
l'explication exacte, et je demande à l'Académie la permission de
lui soumettre ce que j'estime être la théorie vraie du phénomène.

     " Tout tend à prouver que les rayons X sont une agitation de

l'éther, et l'on peut regarder aujourd'hui comme pratiquement
établi que cette agitation est transversale. Si ces rayons sont une
agitation de l'éther, supposer qu'ils sont capables de déviation
magnétique prête le flanc à de très grandes difficultés théoriques ;

je ne sache pas d'ailleurs qu'une telle déviation ait été expéri

mentalement démontrée dans aucun cas. Quant aux soi-disant

rayons cathodiques, il me paraît absolument évident que ce ne

sont pas du tout de vrais rayons, mais bien des courants de

molécules chargées d'électricité, projetés par la cathode. Il y

aurait sans doute une grande difficulté dans cette manière de

 voir si nous étions obligés de supposer ces molécules capables
de passer à travers la paroi en verre d'un tube de Crookes,

d'autant plus que, Crookes lui-même l'a montré il y a déjà

 longtemps*, les rayons cathodiques sont arrêtés par une mince
pellicule de verre, de quartz ou de mica. Mais il n'est nullement
nécessaire d'avoir recours à cette supposition pour expliquer les

résultats obtenus par M. de Metz. Il me semble évident que les

 phénomènes qui se présentent dans les hauts degrés de vide sont
de la nature de ceux qui ont été étudiés par MM. Spottiswoode

et Moulton sous le nom de relief-effect f. Les deux masses d'air

 extrêmement raréfié, situées respectivement dans le tube de
 Crookes et dans le tube cylindrique, constituent les deux arma

 tures d'une bouteille de Leyde, dont le diélectrique est formé
 par la portion de la paroi du tube de Crookes, limitée au contour

du tube cylindrique. A chaque décharge de la bobine d'induction,

 un torrent de molécules électrisées négativement est projeté
 contre l'anti-cathode ou la première surface du diélectrique,

 laquelle communique sa charge, ou une bonne partie de sa
 charge, soit directement à l'anode, soit, en premier lieu, à quel
 que autre partie de la surface interne du tube de Crookes.
 Toute charge momentanée de la première surface du diélectrique

 agit inductivement sur le contenu du tube cylindrique, et produit
 réciproquement une décharge entre la seconde surface du diélec

      * Crookes, Philosophical Transactions for 1879, p. 150.

     t Spottiswoode et Moulton, Philosophical Transactions for 1879, p. 177.

 272 PENETRATION BY THE CATHODE RAYS

trique et le cylindre d'aluminium relié à la terre; et, dans cette
phase de décharge réciproque, où la seconde surface agit comme
cathode, les molécules sont projetées de cette seconde surface
exactement comme de la cathode du tube de Crookes, et elles

affectent de même un écran au platinocyanure de baryum.
      " Bien que, comme j'en suis pleinement convaincu et comme,

j'imagine, le pensent la plupart des physiciens, les rayons catho

diques et les rayons X soient de nature complètement différente,

ils sont également capables d'affecter une plaque photographique
ou d'exciter la fluorescence d'un écran couvert de platinocyanure
de baryum. Cela admis, les résultats obtenus par M. de Metz
trouveront une explication très simple. Lorsque l'air à l'intérieur
du tube cylindrique était à la pression atmosphérique ou seule
ment à un degré de vide modéré, la fluorescence observée sur
l'écran était due aux rayons X. Car, ainsi que Lenard* l'a
montré, les rayons cathodiques, à supposer qu'ils existent, seraient
promptement arrêtés par l'air et ne pourraient par conséquent
atteindre l'écran. En conséquence, les rayons produisant la
fluorescence étaient trouvés insensibles à l'aimant. D'autre part,
à un vide élevé, les rayons cathodiques, constitués par les molé
cules que projetait la surface rendue cathode par induction,
étaient capables d'atteindre l'écran ; et, comme ils étaient à même
d'exciter une fluorescence beaucoup plus intense que les rayons X,
l'effet observé était principalement dû aux rayons cathodiques;
et, par conséquent, les rayons excitants étaient trouvés susceptibles
de déviation par l'aimant.

     " En présentant cette explication, je tiens à me garder contre
la pensée qui pourrait m'être attribuée d'expliquer de la même
façon l'apparition de rayons cathodiques venant de la seconde
surface d'une plaque d'aluminium dont la première surface reçoit
des rayons cathodiques. Dans ce cas, le processus est probable
ment plus direct et présente, je suis porté à le penser, quelque

analogie avec l'électrolyse."

    In 1898 Mr A. Hilger, the optician, essayed the difficult task

of the construction of Prof. Michelson's echelon transmission
grating, then recently invented, and there is a series of his letters
to Prof. Stokes asking for directions and reporting progress.

In the second letter on Sept. 24 he writes, " I cannot tell you

                      * Lenard, Wiedemann's Annalen, Vol. 51, p. 225 ; 1894.

ACTIVITY IN PRESERVATION OF NATURAL SCENERY                  273

Ihow much I am obliged to you for the trouble you have taken
in this matter.     had written at least half a dozen letters

but without results, even some without reply." Since then

Mr Hilger and his successors have occupied a foremost place in

the construction of these delicate instruments, and most of the

powerful echelons now in use in Europe and even in America

have been produced by them.

The pleasure felt by Prof. Stokes in beautiful natural sur

roundings moved him to public action on various occasions. When

a suggestion was made to abolish the rivulet which runs down by
the side of the footpath in Trumpington Street, he was active in

dissent. At the Hills Road end of Lensfield Road a beautiful

poplar tree, now, unfortunately, docked from age, stood out in the
footway : a proposal to remove it called forth a protest in the

form of a circular of which the following constituted the pre

liminary portion of the draft :

    " A scheme has for some time been in motion pleading for

certain improvements (as they are called) in this Road to which it

would be well to draw the attention of the inhabitants.
I I" In common as know with many others,
                                                 have often been

struck with the beauty of this Road in walking from Downing
Terrace towards the Hills Road. The eye rests on a beautiful

line of plantation on the right, while the grounds of Downing lie

on the left. Short as the road  iIs,

                                                                 it
                                                                                    is
                                cannot but regard as one of

the ornaments of the Town. The fine poplar tree at the corner

also a highly ornamental object as seen from St Andrew's Street

and elsewhere...."

       CAMBRIDGE JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

For fifty years Sir George Gabriel Stokes had held the

appointment of Lucasian Professor of Mathematics, and the event

was officially celebrated by the University in the first week in

June, 1899. The feelings which prompted the University of

Cambridge to organize this signal mark of respect are set forth
in an article contributed by Prof. J.
       i. is                                     Thomson to the Daily
                           is

                                             J.
Chronicle at the beginning of the celebration.

   " It to real students of science, and to them perhaps alone,

that Stokes's work known. When difficulties have to be over

come, when the subject seems obscure and uncertain, they turn

s. b.                                                    18

274 REASONS PROMPTING THE JUBILEE CELEBRATION

to Stokes's writings, certain that if he has dealt with the subject

at all it will have become clearer and more definite by passing
                  It is impossible in a brief sketch to give
through his mind

any adequate idea of Stokes's contributions to science. His earliest

researches were on hydrodynamics, in which subject he opened up

entirely new regions. In optics he has --to quote the words used

by Lord Kelvin when presenting him with the Copley Medal, the
highest honor British science has to bestow --been the teacher

and guide of his contemporaries  His papers, besides being

remarkable for the value of the results they obtain, are models

of scientific exposition, 'perfect in form and unassailable in

accuracy.'

     " In Stokes there is that rare but effective combination of the

highest mathematical powers and the greatest experimental skill,
and some of his greatest triumphs have been due to this com
bination. With simple apparatus (his experiments were mainly
done at a time when physical laboratories hardly existed in this

country) he has solved some of the most crucial questions in

physical optics, and the simplicity and success of the experiments
with which he illustrates his lectures are a source of unfailing

delight to his audience. In this combination of qualities he

resembles his great predecessor Newton, between whose career

and his there are many striking coincidences
     " No notice of Sir George's life could leave unmentioned the

unsparing help and encouragement he has throughout his long

career given to younger men ; many most important researches

made by others have owed their inception to his suggestions, and

their completion to his encouragement.
     " We may well congratulate ourselves on the prosperity of

Natural Philosophy in this country, as within three years we
have celebrated the jubilees of two such men as Lord Kelvin

and Sir George Stokes."
     Distinguished men of science, and representatives of Uni

versities and other learned bodies at home and abroad, to the

number of about one hundred and fifty, participated in the
celebration, which commenced with a conversazione in the Fitz-

william Museum on the Thursday evening.

     On the Thursday afternoon the annual Rede Lecture had
been delivered in the Senate House by M. Alfred Cornu, of the

Institute of France, who announced as his subject "La Theorie

REDE LECTURE BY M. CORNU  275

des Ondes Lumineuses : son influence sur la Physique moderne."
After alluding to the marvellous material results that had arisen
in modern times from patient and profound study of the laws
of natural phenomena, M. Cornu introduced his discourse as

follows.

      " De là une série de questions qui s'imposent à l'attention de

tous. A quelle occasion le goût de la Philosophie naturelle, si

chère aux philosophes de l'Antiquité, abandonnée pendant des
siècles, a-t-il pu renaître et se développer ? Quelles ont été les
phases de son développement ? Comment ont apparu ces notions
nouvelles qui ont si profondément modifié nos idées sur le mé
canisme des forces de la Nature ? Enfin, quelle est la voie féconde
qui, insensiblement, nous conduit à d'admirables généralisations,
conformément au plan grandiose entrevu par les fondateurs de la

Physique moderne ?
     Telles sont les questions que je me propose, comme physicien,

d'examiner devant vous : c'est un sujet un peu abstrait, je dirai
même un peu sévère ; mais nul autre ne m'a paru plus digne
d'attirer votre attention, à la fête que l'Université de Cambridge
célèbre aujourd'hui, pour honorer le cinquantenaire du professorat
de Sir George-Gabriel Stokes, qui, dans sa belle carrière, a pré
cisément touché d'une main magistrale aux problèmes les plus
profitables à l'avancement de la Philosophie naturelle.

      Ce sujet d'autant mieux a sa place ici qu'en citant les noms
des grands esprits qui ont le plus fait pour la Science, nous
trouverons ceux qui honorent le plus l'Université de Cambridge,
ses professeurs ou ses élèves, Sir Isaac Newton, Thomas Young,
George Green, Sir George Airy, Lord Kelvin, Clerk Maxwell, Lord
Rayleigh; et le souvenir de gloire qui se perpétue à travers les
siècles jusqu'au temps présent rehaussera l'éclat de cette belle

cérémonie."

      After a masterly sketch of the development of optical science
from Descartes and Newton onward to Stokes and Maxwell and
Hertz, he concluded with these words,

     "Mais, je m'arrête, Messieurs; je sens que j'ai assumé une
tâche trop lourde en essayant de vous énumérer toutes les richesses
que les ondes à vibrations transversales concentrent aujourd'hui

dans nos mains.

                                                                                                     18--2

276 APPRECIATION BY M. CORNU

    J'ai dit, en commençant, que l'Optique me paraissait être la

Science directrice de la Physique moderne.
     Si quelque doute a pu s'élever dans votre esprit, j'espère que

cette impression s'est effacée pour faire place à un sentiment de
surprise et d'admiration en voyant tout ce que l'étude de la
lumière a apporté d'idées nouvelles sur le mécanisme des forces de
la Nature.

     Elle a ramené insensiblement à la conception cartésienne
d'un milieu unique remplissant l'espace, siège des phénomènes
électriques, magnétiques et lumineux ; elle laisse entrevoir que ce
milieu est le dépositaire de l'énergie répandue dans le monde
matériel, le véhicule nécessaire de toutes les forces, l'origine même

de la gravitation universelle.
     Voilà l'oeuvre accomplie par l'Optique ; c'est peut-être la plus

grande chose du siècle !
     L'étude des propriétés des ondes envisagées sous tous leurs

aspects est donc, à l'heure actuelle, la voie véritablement féconde.
     C'est celle qu'a suivie, dans sa double carrière de géomètre et

de physicien, Sir George Stokes, à qui nous allons rendre un
hommage si touchant et si mérité. Tous ses beaux travaux, aussi
bien en Hydrodynamique qu'en Optique théorique ou expéri
mentale, se rapportent précisément aux transformations que les
divers milieux font subir aux ondes qui les traversent. Dans les

phénomènes variés qu'il a découverts ou analysés, mouvement des
fluides, diffraction, interférences, fluorescence, rayons Rontgen,
l'idée directrice que je vous signale est toujours visible, et c'est
ce qui fait l'harmonieuse unité de la vie scientifique de Sir George

Stokes.

      Que l'Université de Cambridge soit fière de sa chaire Lucasi-
enne de Physique mathématique, car, depuis Sir Isaac Newton
jusqu'à Sir George Stokes, elle contribue pour une part glorieuse
aux progrès de la Philosophie naturelle."

      Those who had the privilege of attending will not forget the
grace and charm of M. Cornu's prelection. Their recollection will
be tinged with profound regret that so soon afterwards, in April,
1902, his brilliant career was fated to come to an end; the
melancholy privilege was reserved for Sir George Stokes to
formally move the Cambridge Philosophical Society to record
their feelings of deep loss on the death of an Honorary Member
closely bound to Cambridge by many ties.

EARLY PRIVATE EXPERIMENTING                                  277

     The reception was held by the Vice-Chancellor on behalf of the

University at the Fitzwilliam Museum, in the evening. A few

minutes after ten o'clock the ceremony of presenting marble busts
of Sir George Stokes, the work of Mr Hamo Thornycroft, R.A., was

proceeded with in the central gallery. A temporary platform had

been provided, on which seats were taken by the Vice-Chancellor,

Prof. Sir George Stokes, Lord Kelvin, and the Rev. C. H. Prior,

who represented Pembroke College.

Lord Kelvin, addressing the company, said* that they had met

for a celebration of a great man and of Natural Philosophy in
the University of Cambridge --Natural Philosophy in the broadest

sense of the term, of which foundations had been laid by Sir

George Stokes that would render the nineteenth century memor

able in future centuries. Sir George Stokes commenced as an

undergraduate in Pembroke College : his first experimental work

was made when he was a junior Fellow. He (Lord Kelvin) well

remembered that in Pembroke College there were no physical

laboratories; and the first physical laboratory in European Uni
versities, he believed -- certainly in these islands-- was in Sir

George Stokes' rooms, which he occupied as a junior Fellow about

the years 1840 to 1843. Sir George there commenced experi
Ifments on the properties of matter.
                                      he were asked what was

Sir George Stokes's province, he would say, Natural Philosophy in

the broadest and widest sense of the term. Sir George Stokes
Ifhad not interpreted dynamical theory in any narrow sense.
                                                             they

considered the condition of Natural Philosophy in 1840, and in the

present year, they might form some idea of how vast had been the

results that had accrued in his life's work. Lord Kelvin pointed

out that Sir George Stokes had the courage and spirit to attack

subjects absolutely at the limits of the range of the mathematics

of that time. Sound, light, elasticity, as mathematical problems

on the one hand and properties of matter on the other, were the

studies of Sir George Stokes ; and the results of his efforts had

been of splendid benefit to the world of science. Elasticity of

solids Sir George Stokes put on its right footing. When he

reflected on his own early progress, he was led to recall the great

kindness shown to himself, and the great value which his inter

     * For the speeches, which were not printed in the official Order of Proceedings

(University Reporter, or Introduction to special volume of Camb. Phil. Soc. Memoirs),
acknowledgment is due to the reports in the Cambridge Chronicle.

278 UNVEILING OF PORTRAIT BUSTS

course with Sir George Stokes had been to him through life.
Whenever a mathematical difficulty occurred he used to say to
himself, " Ask Stokes what he thinks of it." He got an answer,

if an answer was possible; he was told, at all events, if it was

unanswerable. He felt that in his undergraduate days, and he
felt it more now. Lord Kelvin alluded to the valuable work of

Sir George Stokes with respect to the suspension of clouds, based
as he said on irrefragable mathematics. To Sir George Stokes

belonged the distinction of having foreseen, in lectures if not in

print, the grand principles of spectrum analysis. His published
papers contained but a small part of the work he had done for
science. All workers in science in the University of Cambridge,
all the communicators of papers to the Royal Society during the
thirty years he was Secretary and the five years he was President,
would agree with him in saying that Sir George Stokes had
published in his own name but a very small part of the good he
had done to the world. How many beginners in researches had
been helped by Stokes : he had counselled them how to obtain

more knowledge, and he had helped them to secure results.
Consider then the debt of gratitude due to him, not only for what
he had published himself but for what he had done for others.
His published papers and the discoveries contained therein had
produced a monument more enduring than marble. But, still, they
would like to have a marble monument, a tangible and visible sign
for the men who knew Sir George Stokes and the work he had
done, and for future ages; and, therefore, he felt it a great privilege

indeed to be allowed to unveil the two busts, one designed by the
subscribers for the University of Cambridge and the other for
Pembroke College. He had the honour to ask the Vice-Chancellor
to accept one of the busts for the University of Cambridge, and
to ask Mr Prior to accept the other bust for Pembroke College.
He was no judge of the art of sculpture, but he believed any
work of Mr Thornycroft was certain to be a masterpiece of art.

In that respect he did not venture to express an opinion, but he
did say that each bust was an excellent likeness of Sir George
Stokes, and if it was like Sir George Stokes it was something like

one of the best things that existed in the world.

    The Vice-Chancellor, Dr A. Hill, Master of Downing College,
expressed thanks on behalf of the University, and Mr Prior on

behalf of Pembroke College.

PRESENTATION OF ADDRESSES  279

     Brilliant weather favoured the proceedings on the Friday,
when the formal celebration of Sir George Gabriel Stokes' jubilee

as Lucasian Professor passed off with great dignity and success.
      The Vice-Chancellor presided at a Congregation in the Senate

House at eleven o'clock, when the representatives of learned
Societies in all parts of the world presented formal Addresses
of congratulation to Sir George Stokes. Abbreviated contents

of some of them are printed as an Appendix.
     Sir George Stokes, on rising to respond, received an ovation.

He quietly expressed his thanks for the great honour they had

done him in coming to that celebration. It was an event which

he never could have expected. But when the proposal was made

to him by the Council of the Senate, he thought, although he felt
unworthy of so great an honour, that it was his duty to accept the
invitation. As he looked back on his long life, he must say, in

spite of the flattering addresses that had been presented to him,
that he ought to have worked a good deal harder. Bat perhaps it
was because he had not done so, that he was there before them

that day in excellent health. Perhaps it would be well that those
who worked at physical subjects should avoid overworking. He

assured them he felt deeply grateful for the manner in which they

had honoured him.

      The Vice-Chancellor entertained upwards of four hundred

guests at luncheon in Downing College. At a quarter to three
another Congregation was held in the Senate House, which was
again filled in every part. The Chancellor, the Duke of Devonshire,
entered the building with Sir George Stokes; and in the procession
were the Vice-Chancellor accompanied by the Registrary, Dr Jebb
and Sir John Gorst, representatives of the University in Parlia
ment, the Bishop of Ely, the Bishop of Bristol, Lord Lister, Lord
Kelvin, Lord Rayleigh, the Heads of Houses, Doctors, Professors,
Proctors, and other University officers. Then followed those

delegates from the various countries who had been selected as
recipients of Honorary Degrees to mark the occasion : Marie
Alfred Cornu, Jean Gaston Darboux, Albert Abraham Michelson,

Magnus Gustav Mittag-Leffler, Georg Hermann Quincke, Woldemar

Voigt.

      The following Address, as approved by the Senate, and sealed
with the University seal, was read by the Public Orator, Dr Sandys,
and presented to Sir George Gabriel Stokes by the Chancellor.

280 ADDRESS FROM UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE

                                       Baronetto insigni

                                  Georgio Gabrieli Stokes

                         Iuris et Scientiarum Doctori

                      Regiae Societatis quondam Praesidi

          Scientiae Mathematicae per annos quinquaginta inter

                                Cantabrigienses Professori

                                       S. P. D.

                               Universitas Cantabrigiensis.

     Quod per annos quinquaginta inter nosmet ipsos Professoris
munus tam praeclare ornavisti, et tibi, vir venerabilis, et nobis
ipsis vehementer gratulamur. Iuvat vitam tam longam, tam
serenam, tot studiorum fructibus maturis felicem, tot tantisque
honoribus illustrem, tanta morum modestia et benignitate in-
signem, hodie paulisper contemplari. Anno eodem, quo Regina
nostra Victoria insularum nostrarum solio et sceptro potita est,
ipse eodem aetatis anno Newtoni nostri Universitatem iuvenis
petisti, Newtoni cathedram postea per decem lustra ornaturus,
Newtoni exemplum et in Senatu Britannico et in Societate Regia
ante oculos habiturus, Newtoni vestigia in scientiarum terminis
proferendis pressurus et ingenii tanti imaginem etiam nostro in
saeculo praesentem redditurus. Olim studiorum mathematicorum
e certamine laurea prima reportata, postea (ne plura commemore-
mus) primum aquae et immotae et turbatae rationes, quae
hydrostatica et hydrodynamica nominantur, subtilissime exami-
nasti; deiude vel aquae vel aeris fluctibus corporum motus
paulatim tardatos minutissime perpendisti; lucis denique leges
obscuras ingenii tui lumine luculenter illustrasti. Idem etiam
scientiae mathematicae in puro quodam caelo diu vixisti, atque
hominum e controversiis procul remotus, sapientiae quasi in
templo quodam sereno per vitam totam securus habitasti. In
posterum autem famam diuturnam tibi propterea praesertim
auguramur, quod, in inventis tuis pervulgandis perquam cautus et
consideratus, nihil praeproperum, nihil immaturum, nihil temporis
cursu postea obsolefactum, sed omnia matura et perfecta, omnia
omnibus numeris absoluta, protulisti. Talia propter merita non
modo in insulis nostris doctrinae sedes septem te doctorem honoris
causa nominaverunt, sed etiam exterae gentes honoribus eximiis
certatim cumulaverunt. Hodie eodem doctoris titulo studiorum

PRESENTATION OF MEMORIAL AND ARAGO MEDALS   281

tuorum socios nonnullos exteris e gentibus ad nos advectos, et

ipsorum et tuum in honorem, velut exempli causa, libenter

ornamus. In perpetuum denique observantiae nostrae et re-

verentiae testimonium, in honorem alumni diu a nobis dilecti et

ab aliis nomismate honorifico non uno donati, ipsi nomisma novum

cudendum curavimus. In honore nostro novo in te primum con-

ferendo, inter vitae ante actae gratulationes, tibi omnia prospera

etiam in posterum exoptamus. Vale.

    Datum in Senaculo               s--\.
                                    ( LS^J
mensis Iunii die secundo
     A. S. mdcccxcix.

     The Chancellor then, in the name of the University, said he
had the pleasure and the honour of presenting to Sir George
Stokes a gold medal, struck in commemoration of the distin

guished services which, during the period of fifty years, he had

rendered to the University, especially in the advancement of those

sciences in the study of which, since the days of his illustrious
predecessor Newton, Cambridge had held an honourable pre
eminence. The Duke next announced that M. Cornu and M.

Becquerel had requested permission to present a medal of the

highest scientific renown.
     M. Cornu, in the name of the Physical Section of the Institute

of France, presented to Sir George Stokes the Arago medal, which
had been ordered to be struck for this occasion, as a testimony of
the high estimation in which the Academy held his valuable and
important work, and to perpetuate the memory of his jubilee.

282 FOREIGN MEMBER OF BERLIN ACADEMY

    Sir George Stokes said he was aware that his own Uni

versity were going to present him with a medal, and he need not

express the deep gratitude he felt for that distinguishing mark of
their approbation. He wished he were more worthy of it. But
he was not aware until M. Cornu rose that he was about to be

honoured also by the French Institute with the medal just placed
in his hands. He requested M. Cornu to convey to his confrhres
his acute sense of the honour which the Academy of Sciences

had conferred on him.

     The ceremony of conferring the honorary Degrees then followed,
the recipients being introduced to the Chancellor by the Public
Orator in Latin speeches describing their achievements.

    At the close of these proceedings there was a garden party

at Pembroke College ; and in the evening the University enter
tained the delegates at dinner in the Hall of Trinity College,
under the presidency of the Chancellor.

     The congratulations of the Berlin Academy took the form of
the election of Sir George Stokes as a Foreign Member, as the
following letter testifies.

KOnigliche Akademie der Wissenschaften.

                    Berlin, den 29 Mai 1899.

HOCHGEEHRTER HERR,

Herr Kohlrausch, der den Wunsch hatte, Ihnen unser

Diplom als auswartiges Mitglied, die hochste Ehrenbezeugung
unserer Akademie, persönlich zu uberreichen, ist im letzten

Augenblick durch Krankheit zuruckgehalten worden. Er wird
seinen Besuch spater ausfiihren. Wir aber fiigen unserem

Diplom die allerherzlichsten Gluckwünsche zu Ihrem Jubilaum

zu.

                   In ausgezeichneter Hochachtung,
                                                         DIELS,

                                vorsitzender Secretar
                    der Koniglich Preussischen Akademie

                                 der Wissenschaften.

    It was natural that the Cambridge Philosophical Society

should mark their gratitude to their distinguished Fellow, whose

work had been one of the great ornaments of their Transactions, in

some special manner. A proposal was set on foot to prepare a

CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY'S MEMOIRS  283

special volume of Memoirs, which should be presented to Prof.
Stokes on the occasion of his Jubilee, and should also form

Vol. xviii of their Transactions.  Accordingly a magnificent

quarto volume of nearly 500 pages, with plates, containing 22

284 FOREIGN ASSOCIATE OF FRENCH ACADEMY

memoirs, by Fellows of the Society and some of the Honorary

Members in other countries, was published in 1900, with a

portrait frontispiece here reproduced, and with the following

dedication :  In honorem

              Georgii Gabrielis Stokes

              Physicam et Mathematicam

              apud Cantabrigienses

              iam quinquaginta annos profitentis

     Two of the following letters convey congratulations from some
of Sir George Stokes' distinguished friends in the French

Academy of Sciences on his election as one of the eight Foreign
Associates, which it had been hoped to arrange to coincide with
his Jubilee. After them are printed letters conveying congratu
lations, from M. Becquerel's father and from M. Cornu, on the

earlier occasion of his election as Correspondent in 1879.

Très honoré Confrère,     Paris, le 26 février 1900.

                  J'avais appris quelques jours avant votre élection,
par Mr Poincaré, qui avait passé quelques jours à Londres, le
malheur qui vous a frappé, il y a deux mois*.

     Nous avons tous été très attristés de votre chagrin, et nous

espérons que le témoignage d'estime et d'admiration, que notre
Académie vous a donné, adoucira un peu l'amertume de votre

grande et juste tristesse.
     Absent de Paris pendant quelques jours, à cause d'un deuil de

famille, je n'ai pas pu répondre plus tôt à votre si aimable lettre,
ni assister hier à la Séance de l'Académie. Mais je suis sûr que,
suivant l'usage traditionnel, le Bureau de l'Académie vous aura
officiellement annoncé votre élection par une lettre des Secrétaires

perpétuels.

     Mr Joseph Bertrand est en le moment fort malade et sa

signature n'aura peut-être pas figuré au bas de la lettre : nous

sommes extrêmement inquiet de sa santé. Ses forces déclinent

chaque jour. On craint que ce soit l'effet d'un cancer du foie.

Veuillez agréer, je vous prie, illustre et très honoré Confrère,

l'expression de mon respectueux dévouement.                            A. CORNU.
                                          * The death of Lady Stokes.

LETTERS FROM FRENCH CONFRÈRES                             285

                          Paris, 9, rue de Grenelle,

Très honoré Confrère,     le 1er mai 1901.

Je vous suis bien reconnaissant, au milieu de votre

douleur personnelle, d'avoir pris la peine de m'adresser une

lettre aussi émue à l'occasion de la mort de mon pauvre frère.
Vous avez bien voulu rappeler qu'aux fêtes de votre Jubilé c'est

moi qui ai eu l'honneur de vous offrir au nom de l'Académie des

Sciences la Médaille Arago, témoignage bien sincère de l'admira

tion que nos confrères portent à vos travaux.

    Je vois que vous êtes bien entouré d'affections, puisque vous

êtes allé vivre au milieu de la famille de Madame Humphry

votre fille, dans une résidence contigue avec celle que vous avez

habitée pendant de longues années avec la compagne que vous

pleurez. Ce doit être pour vous une consolation bien douce.

    J'ai tardé quelques jours à répondre à votre lettre, ayant été

un peu détourné de mes occupations ordinaires par les tristes

circonstances que je viens de traverser: j'ai d'ailleurs attendu
d'avoir pu faire au Secrétariat de l'Institut les rectifications

d'adresse que vous avez bien voulu me communiquer.
     Veuillez agréer, je vous prie, très honoré Confrère, l'expression

de mes sentiments de respect et d'admiration.

                                               A. CORNU.

Cher et vénéré Confrère,  Paris, 20 février, 1900.

                  En vous nommant hier notre Associé à l'Académie

des Sciences, nous avons voulu affirmer une fois de plus notre
admiration pour votre belle vie scientifique.

     J'avais demandé que cette distinction coïncidât avec les fêtes
inoubliables de Cambridge ; les circonstances ne l'ont pas permis
à cette époque, et je suis très heureux de voir réalisé aujourd'hui

l'hommage qui nous tenions à vous rendre.

    J'ai appris à l'Académie, avec une grande tristesse, le deuil cruel
qui vous avait frappé cet hiver ; je tiens à vous dire combien

Madame Becquerel et moi nous prenons part à votre chagrin.
      Veuillez agréer, cher et vénéré Confrère, l'expression respec

tueuse de mes sentiments de haute considération.

                                            HENRI BECQUEREL.

286 LETTERS TO M. BECQUEREL

                                Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

Dear Monsieur Becquerel,        5 April, 1899.

           I am informed that you have accepted the invitation

Iwhich you have received to the celebration of the Jubilee of my
professorship.  write to ask if you will do me the honour to

come to my house, along with Madame Becquerel, if she accom

panies you, so that you and madame may be our guests on that

occasion.

Lady Stokes is far from strong, but she will do what she can

to make the visit of Madame Becquerel agreeable. We neither

Iof us are in the habit of speaking French, but hope we may be

able to speak it sufficiently well to make ourselves understood.

I have a pleasing recollection of the kind way in which you

received me during the celebration of the centenary of the
Institute of France.

                I remain with the highest esteem,

                                Yours very faithfully,

                                G. G. STOKES.

                                Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

Dear       M. Becquerel,                    22 July, 1899.
           On my return
                          from  ILondon found the           beautifully

bound address, composed in such gratifying terms, which was
presented to me by the Academie des Sciences de l'lnstitut de

France and signed by you as their delegate.

    It is many years now since the Academy did me the honour

Iof electing me a Corresponding Member, since which time have

regularly received the Comptes Rendus as they were published.

It was quite a surprise to me to receive at the hands of

M. Cornu during the celebration of the Jubilee, the Arago

Medal which the Academy have done me the great honour of

Iawarding to me.
         requested M. Cornu to convey to his colleagues my most

sincere thanks for that mark of their appreciation of my humble
Iservices towards promoting the progress of science.
                                                            should

wish however to express through you my thanks to them in a

more formal manner.

          EARLIER FRENCH ACADEMIC CONGRATULATIONS               287

   IPermit me, M. Becquerel, to mention the great interest have

felt in your own remarkable researches in subjects in which we

Ihave both been engaged, and to express the high esteem with

which subscribe myself,

                                       Your friend and colleague,
                                                               G. G. STOKES.

The letters referring to the earlier occasion are as follows :

Mon cher Monsieur,             Paris, 57, rue Cuvier,
                                     le 10 juin 1879.

             Vous avez été élu hier correspondant de l'Académie

des Sciences de l'Institut de France dans la section de physique,

et j'ai eu grand plaisir de pouvoir y contribuer et de faire con

naître vos importants travaux. Je m'empresse de vous adresser

mes félicitations bien sincères et de vous prier de vouloir bien

agréer l'assurance de mes sentiments les plus distingués et

dévoués.                 EDMOND BECQUEREL.

                               Paris, le 9 juin 1879.

Cher et très honoré Monsieur,

             Je veux être un des premiers à vous annoncer que

l'Académie des Sciences vient de vous élire Correspondant de

la Section de Physique par 44 voix (sur 51 votants).

    Il y a bien des années que vous étiez désigné : à cette époque

vous auriez été honoré par cette élection : aujourd'hui c'est vous

qui honorez l'Académie.

Veuillez donc agréer, je vous prie, cher et très honoré Monsieur,

avec l'expression de mes félicitations celle de mon respectueux

dévouement.                    A. CORNU.

                         Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

Dear Dr Larmor,                4 July, 1900.

             I write to return you and the Council of the

Cambridge Philosophical Society my best thanks for the

beautifully bound and got-up volume which the Society did

me the honour to put together in commemoration of the jubilee
                      IAs look on so many of those junior to
of my professorship.

288 CONGRATULATIONS BY TELEGRAM

Ime going above my head in mathematics and physics, cannot

help feeling my unworthiness of all the honour that has been

done me.
ITo pass to another subject.
                              got some time ago a post
Icard asking whether could attend a meeting at your rooms

relative to Section A at the Bradford meeting of the British

Association.
II have not decided whether
                              shall go to the Bradford
Imeeting, but think it rather probable that I may. If the
Imeeting is only for those who are going,
                                           am disqualified.
IBut intend to be in Cambridge on the 7th ; and if my going
Ishould be of any use, am ready to attend on knowing the

hour.         Yours very truly,

                              G. G. STOKES.

     Telegrams of congratulation reached Sir George Stokes on the
day of the Jubilee festival in great numbers : the following are
selected at random as of public interest.

Congratulations and good wishes from friends and admirers in
              Van der Meulen, Dibbits, Franchimont, Julius,
Holland.      Kamerlingh Onnes, W. Kafieyn, Kluyver,

              KOSTER, LOBBRY DE BRUYN, LORENTZ, MAC-

              Gillivray, Mulder, Rauwenhoff, E. F. van
              der Sande Bakhuysen, Schoute, Sissingh,

              VAN DER WAALS, ZAAIJER, ZeEMAN.

Congratulations and best wishes.

                                            Pickering, Massachusetts.

     Dem altberühmten Physiker gratulirt in herzlicher und denk-

barer Ergebenheit die junge Collegin, die Physikalisch Technische
Reichsanstalt, mit dem schmerzlichen Bedauern dass plotzliche
Erkrankung micb gehindert hat die Gliickwilnsche der Akademie
der Wissenschaften und der Reichsanstalt iniindlich rechtzeitig
zu uberbringen. Hoffe ich, Hochverehrter Herr Jubilar, dass Sie
dies gestatten wollen, wenn ich nachtraglich darum bitten werde.

                                                                                KOHLRAUSCH.

     Quoique absent, mon esprit est avec vous et prend une vive
part aux manifestations dont votre nom illustre est l'objet.

                                      General Ferrero, LL.D., Milan.

            PERSONAL CONGRATULATIONS FROM ABROAD      289

     Die Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften sendet die
warmsten Glückwünsche ihrem Ehrenmitgliede.

                                                                                 Suess, Wien.

Dem verehrten Altmeister sendet die warmsten Gliickwünsche

das Physikalisch-Chemische Institvit zu Leipzig.

                                                  Ostwald.

     Ich gestatte mir Ihnen ein Zeichen meiner ganz besonderen
Werthschatzung und meiner Theilnahme an Ihrem Jubelfest

zu senden.                     ROntgen, Würzburg.

Congratulate you most warmly.

            Royal Society, New South Wales, Australia.

     Best congratulations and wishes to Sir George Stokes.

                         Sir Charles Todd, Adelaide, S. Australia.
    To Prof. J. J. Thomson. -- Pray forward to Sir George Stokes

on fit occasion warmest and most respectful congratulations with
the regret of being prevented from personally bringing them.

                                                              P. Lenard, Kiel.

Herzlichste Glückwünsche dem grossen Gelehrten.

                                                         Ebert, München.

      Many letters of regret came from scientific men who could not
attend.

    Prof. Mascart was unable to leave Paris. " Je serai avec vous

de cceur en cette circonstance, et je m'associerai, a distance, aux

felicitations et aux vceux dont vous recevrez l'hommage de la part
de tous ceux qui apprecient l'importance de votre carriere scien-

tifique. Les relations personnelles que j'ai eu l'honneur d'avoir
avec vous, et la bienveillance que vous n'avez cessé de me

t^moigner, augmentent mes regrets d'absence."
     Dr E. Schar, Professor of Pharmacy and Toxicology, sends on

behalf of the Faculty of Mathematical and Natural Science of

IStrassburg, their congratulations. " have the more pleasure, as

Dean of our Faculty, to send you this document, as your researches

have thrown so much light on several departments of Pharma

ceutical and Physiological Chemistry."
     " Prof. Voigt " of Gottingen, who was present, " has the honour

of presenting to Sir George Stokes, with the most respectful con
gratulations for his Jubilee, some views of the place where C. F.
Gauss and W. Weber were living and working."

s. b. i.                                          19

290 EARLY WORK ON OPTICAL GLASS

Prof. L. Koenigsberger sent the warmest congratulations of his

Faculty at Heidelberg.

     Prof. G. Veronese, of Padua, writes from the Chamber of
Deputies, Rome : " vi giunga anche il modesto mio plauso per
l' opera vostra e il mio sincero augurio che siate conservato alla

scienza e alla famiglia ancora lungo tempo."

Prof. F. Lindemann regretted that his duties as Dean of the

Philosophical Faculty at Munich compelled his absence from the

festival.

   IProf. P. G. Tait writes: --"Though shall not be present at your

Jubilee, I am sure you will believe that my admiration of your

career is as great, and my best wishes as sincere, as can be felt or

expressed by any who may appear in person."

From Sir W. Huggins came a message that though to his very

Igreat regret he had to forego the pleasure of being present,

"during those days shall be nevertheless wholly with you in

spirit  No one will join more cordially..., for no one can have

a deeper appreciation of your great life-work for the advancement
of Science, not only directly, in the way of original investigation

and discovery and in your professional teaching, but in a thousand
indirect ways :-- amongst others by the encouragement and assist

ance you have always been so ready to give to other workers in

Science, and by your invaluable secretarial work for so many years

at the Royal Society."

    Among lifelong friends, Mr W. T. Kingsley* wrote from S. Kil-

Ivington Rectory: --"As cannot be present at your Jubilee and do
Inot want you to think you are forgotten,
                                              send you the two

Munich prisms that you did such good work with in old days,

when the far end of the spectrum came further and further into

view as the days grew longer.

     " Do you know what is the material in the Jena glass that

gives a nearly rational spectrum ; you used to think titanium was
Ithe only substance likely to do so.
                                      tried a telescope of Cooke's

last summer, and found it nearly perfect ; very little outstanding

colour even for an edge of the object-glass.

   I"The object-glass made for Sir R. Ball was finished, but not

mounted, so did not see how it performs.

   I" am all but stone deaf and have many other infirmities, but

on the whole have much to be thankful for
     " With my best love to Lady Stokes."

* Formerly Fellow of Sidney Sussex College, brother of Charles Kingsley.

REMINISCENCES OF EARLY LIFE                              291

IMr C. E. Douglass writes from Brighton :-- " ask for nothing

but that you be conscious of the kind and interested feeling with

Iwhich an old friend of 1841-2-3 regards the incident. fear that

we are now the only two who remain of the little party who used

Ito play at bowls in Pembroke garden, and once -- think you
Iwere with us --rowed down together to Ely to see the Cathedral.

You will understand my feeling as think of the many dear

friends who have passed away since that time, Woodford, Venables,

Power, Cayley, and others."

    Mr J. S. Hoare writes from the Rectory, Godstone, Surrey :--
I I" don't know that ever had the pleasure of speaking to you :

Ibut in 1846 had the honour of being examined by you... when
I was placed as sixth wrangler among a number of friends now,

alas, nearly all departed."

   From Mr W. M. Spence, formerly Fellow of Pembroke :-- " I am

very sorry to find myself unable to take part in person  From
the time when in 1870 I heard your lectures, onwards through the
lengthy time, nearly twenty years, when I was proud to be a Fellow
of Pembroke with you, I could not but feel an increasing admiration

Ifor your constant kindness and pleasantness to me, and am glad

to find this opportunity of expressing it. Others will speak more

fully of your capacities in other directions, but one who has sat

through many college meetings with you can speak better for

your kindly consideration for your juniors and their often crude

opinions."
     Congratulations arrived also from his confreres E. Picard and

H. Moissan, of the Institute of France ; from Prof. A. Brill, of
Tubingen ; from the Salters Company of London, of which Sir
George Stokes was an Honorary Member ; and from his native
village of Skreen.

     Finally, there came the following from Shrewsbury School :--

       Illustrissimo et venerando Baroneto Georgio Stokes
            Praepostores Regiae Scholae Salopiensis S. P. D.

     Tibi valde gratulamur omnes quod iam per quinquaginta
annos Cantabrigiae studiis mathematicis praefuisti.

     Nec dos soli : nam ab omnibus regiouibus Angliam sapientes
properant qui te maximis afficiant honoribus. Plurima de tua
beneficeutia et liberalitate eximia audivimus : pro qua te sup-

                                                                                                  19--2

292 HEREDITY CONTRASTED WITH INERTIA

plices rogamus ut a magistro nostro, cum sapientissimo tum
iucundissimo illo viro, impetres ut nobis ferias agere liceat. Hoc
quidem te maiore fiducia rogamus, quod complures causae hanc
scholam tibi caram coniuncte reddunt. Quae vero si feceris, nos
tibi semper grati erimus. Fac valeas. Dabam SalopieDsis
princeps Scholae,

                      Desmondus F. T. Coke, pro praepostoribus.

   Nonis Juniis.

(The following draft of a letter is dated the week of the Jubilee

                        celebration.)
                                 Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

Dear Sir,                                 6 June, 1899.

I meant to have written to you in reply to your letter
Iof May 20, to explain that meant no disrespect by my comparison
Iof " Egyptian Hieroglyphics."  do not recollect how I addressed

the letter, but the enclosure shows that an earlier letter failed to

reach its destination.

   I quite agree with you in the opinion you express, that in

biology we have need of special laws affecting organisms and not

represented in the inorganic world. I am not a biologist, and do

not know what the general opinion among biologists on that
Isubject may be.
                  should have supposed that those who imagine

that we want nothing more than the laws relating to the [injorganic

world were only a rather small minority.
I Iam not sure that understand you in what you said about
Iheredity and inertia.
                        understood you to mean that heredity

was to be accounted for by the physical law of inertia, applicable

Ito the inorganic world. In this could not agree with you. But

as nobody has been able thus to account for the law of heredity,

and as the assumption that it was thus to be accounted for is

illegitimate unless you assume that all the laws of the organic

world are merely results of the laws which hold good in the

Iinorganic world --an assumption which you repudiate, and think

rightly repudiate -- it seems to me very probable that I misunder

stood you, and that all you intended was to draw a sort of analogy
between the law of inertia in the inorganic world (though organised
matter is subject to it equally with inorganic) and a certain law
(that of heredity) belonging to the organic world. This of course

          RELATION OF RADIO-ACTIVITY TO TEMPERATURE                 293

would be a different thing altogether, and I should not object to

it,though confess that the analogy seems to me somewhat far
         it
fetched.
        II
                 I             Yours faithfully,

                    ID. Gordon Johnson, Esq.      G. G. STOKES.

For the part of the following correspondence which was written

by Sir George Stokes the Editor  indebted to the kindness of
                               it I it
M. Becquerel.                       I it is

Dear M. Becquerel,                                16 August, 1899.

               write to suggest an experiment, in case you should

be willing to try it, bearing on the nature of what we call
" Becquerel Rays."
                       think   due to you as the discoverer of

these rays, that should mention              first to you, but
                                                    it              you
                                                               if
think     not worth while to try can have           tried in the

Cavendish Laboratory here.

The theoretical ideas which entertain regarding the nature

of these rays lead me to think very probable that the efficiency

of a substance (suppose metallic uranium) which emits them

would depend very materially upon its temperature.               would
                                                  a

                                                              I
propose to use the time of discharge of charged gold leaf

electroscope while the leaves sink from the first to the second

of two chosen inclinations, as the indication of efficiency, and to

effect the discharges by a disk of metallic uranium, at one time

heated, at another time cooled. It might be heated about as

high as        will bear without risk of spoiling the surface by
          it it
oxidation, and cooled by a freezing mixture, or even, the resultit
                                                  it
of other experiments should seem to make                     if

                                                                          by

                                                                              it
                                                  desirable,     liquid

air. As you have shown that the effect of the uranium depends

on the action of the Becquerel rays on the intervening gas,

would probably be necessary to prevent as far as possible the

circulation of currents of convection, so as to make the experi

ments at different temperatures fairly comparable.  I  am inclined

to think probable that the uranium would be more efficient at

a higher than at a lower temperature, but as the effect of a high

temperature on air which had thus been rendered active would

probably be to make normal again, might be desirable not to
                               I

                                         it
heat the uranium as high as mentioned. These however are

precautions which can only be learned by experience.

294 RADIO-ACTIVITY UNAFFECTED BY PREVIOUS TREATMENT

   IYou may perhaps have noticed phenomena which indicate

that nothing is to be expected from the experiment have

Isuggested, or, even if this be not the case, it may not be con

venient to you to try the experiment. In that case should
feel obliged if you would kindly inform me; for then on the

Ifirst supposition would lay the thing aside, and on the second
I might have the experiment tried in Cambridge.

   I Iam not sure whether gave you a copy of my " Wilde
If ILecture " on the Rontgen rays when you were in Cambridge.

     not, shall be happy to send one.
                                                         Yours very truly,

                                 Le Croibic,

                                 25 août 1899.

Cher et vénéré Monsieur Stokes,

                 L'aimable lettre que vous m'avez fait l'honneur de
m ecrire m'est parvenue au Croisic où je suis depuis un mois, et
où je dois rester encore une huitaine de jours avant d'aller passer

six semaines à la campagne. Je ne retournerai à mon Laboratoire
que vers la fin d'octobre. C'est vous dire que je ne pourrai

reprendre avant cette époque les expériences dont vous avez

l'obligeance de me parler.

    II y a trois aus, au début de mes recherches sur le rayonnement

de l'uranium, guidé par l'idée que l'émission de ce corps pouvait
être une phosphorescence invisible, j'ai soumis l'uranium et ses

composés à des élévations de température diverses, puis à des

refroidissements ne dépassant pas -- 20° C, soit en les exposant en

même temps à la lumière solaire ou électrique, soit en les main
tenant à l'obscurité, et je n'ai constaté aucun changement

appréciable dans le rayonnement émis par ces corps revenus à
la température ordinaire. Mes autres expériences ainsi que celles
de Mr et Me Curie ont montré que pour l'uranium et les autres

corps radio-actifs, les diverses manipulations physiques ou chimiques
qu'on peut leur faire subir, n'altèrent pas leur pouvoir émissif

spécifique. Reste la question que vous me proposez si gracieuse
ment d'étudier, et qui est de reconnaître si l'émission dépend de
la température de ces corps.

    Il résulte de toutes les expériences que je connais, qu'aux

températures de l'hiver et de l'été dans les laboratoires, c'est à

OR BY PRESENT TEMPERATURE  295

dire, depuis quelques degrés centigrades au dessous de zéro
jusqu'à 20° à 30°, ni les actions photographiques, ni les mesures
de la conductibilité de l'air, n'ont manifesté aucune variation

notable dans l'émission des différents corps radio-actifs.

    Il y a deux ans j'avais enterpris la recherche de la mesure

de l'émission de l'uranium métallique à diverses températures,
mais je n'ai pas publié les résultats de mes expériences parce

qu'elles ne m'ont pas semblé concluantes, et que j'attendais le
moment où je pourrais reprendre cette étude en employant des

abaissements de température considérables. Je n'ai pas ici mes
cahiers d'expériences et je ne me souviens pas des mesures que j'ai
obtenues ; je vous les indiquerai quand je serai de retour à Paris.

Voici la disposition que j'avais employée : Une sphère d'uranium

métallique B, était suspendue par un fil fin de cuivre, bien isolé,
et relie à un électromètre de Hankel. La sphère d'uranium était
suspendue à l'intérieur d'un cylindre de cuivre G, que l'on pouvait
échauffer ou refroidir.

     Si le cylindre est électrisé, la sphère prend le potentiel du
cylindre en une ou deux minutes. Si le cylindre est en com
munication avec le sol et si l'on charge la sphère à des potentiels
déterminés, celle-ci se décharge et l'on peut suivre la vitesse de

déperdition de la charge à diverses températures. Je n'ai pu

opérer qu'entre les températures de + 100° et -- 20°, en entourant
alors le cylindre 6' d'un mélange réfrigérant. Les variations m'ont
paru attribuables aux variations de la conductibilité de l'air par

convection. A cette même époque j'avais montré que la décharge

des corps électrisés se faisait par l'intermédiaire des gaz ambiants,

296 RADIO-ACTIVITY AT LOW TEMPERATURES

et que la sphère d'uranium, placée dans le vide, ne se déchargeait

pas.
     Dans cette étude, j'avais pensé en outre pouvoir substituer

l'action photographique à l'observation de la conductibilité de
l'air, mais j'ai été arrêté dans cette voie par la difficulté d'échauffer

ou de refroidir les corps actifs, sans faire varier notablement la

température des plaques photographiques; car une élévation de

température modifie leurs propriétés, et aux très basses tempéra

tures les sels d'argent ne sont plus réduits par la lumière.
Si l'on avait constaté que l'action photographique de l'uranium
est nulle à la température de l'air liquide, il se pourrait que ce

résultat fût dû, non à l'absence de rayonnement de l'uranium,

mais à l'insensibilité de la plaque photographique à cette

température.

     Cette difficulté de faire la part des modifications des sources

radiantes, et celle des modifications des agents qui révèlent le
rayonnement, m'avait arrêté jusqu'ici, et je me propose le reprendre

la question cet hiver, maintenant que je puis avoir à Paris un peu
d'air liquide.

    Je vous suis très reconnaissant d'avoir eu l'amabilité de vous

adresser d'abord à moi, pour rechercher la solution de cette

importante question. Je compte m'y remettre dès que je serai

de retour à mon Laboratoire, mais je ne saurais avoir la prétention

de rester le seul à m'occuper de ce sujet ; et s'il vous est agréable

de faire faire les expériences sous vous yeux à Cambridge où
Mr Rutherford a déjà fait un très bon travail sur les corps
radiants, je serai le premier à applaudir au succès.

     Dans tous les cas, dès mon retour à Paris, je vous enverrai le

résumé des résultats inédits que j'ai obtenus il y a deux ans.
    Je vous remercie de l'offre que vous me faites de m'envoyer un

exemplaire de votre " Wilde lecture on the Rontgen rays." Je n'en

possède pas ; je serai très heureux de le recevoir et de méditer

sur les idées que vous avez émises au sujet de ce nouvel ordre de

phénomènes.

     De mon côté, j'ai obtenu avant de quitter Paris, d'assez belles

épreuves de mon expérience sur la dispersion anomale de la vapeur
de sodium, et je vous en envoie deux dans le cas où elles vous

intéresseraient.     occasion pour vous demander, au nom de
                     et au mien, de vouloir bien présenter nos
    Je saisis cette

Madame Becquerel

      EARLY GUESSES AS TO ITS NATURE                             297

respectueux hommages a Lady Stokes, et je vous prie d'agreer,

avec tous mes remerciements, l'expression de mes sentiments de
haute consideration et de respectueux denouement.

                                            HENRI BECQUEREL.

                         Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

Dear  M. Becquerel,                                4 Sep. 1899.

      I am very much     obliged to you for the                  interesting

photographs you kindly sent me of the anomalous dispersion of
Ivapour of sodium.  had seen mention of it in books, but I had
not any actual photograph in my possession until I received those

you sent.

    I thought it very probable that you had already made ex

periments on the effect (if any) of the temperature of the uranium
Ion its radio-activity.
                         was not aware however that you had
Iactually done so, nor could have been, since as you inform me
your results have not yet been published. It is hardly worth

Iwhile now to undertake the experiments suggested, which

hardly differ from those which you mention as having been already

tried. I had indeed contemplated trying greater differences of

temperatures, but you have already employed a difference of

120° C. which is considerable.

   IIt may be well that should explain the order of ideas which
Iled me (ignorant as naturally was of your as yet unpublished
Iresults) to propose the experiment. When first read of radio

activity, my thoughts naturally turned, as did yours, to a sort

of phosphorescence resulting from previous exposure. But your

subsequent communications to the Academy, which appeared in

the Comptes Relidus, showed me that the effect was a permanent

one, and must be otherwise explained. As to Rontgen rays, my

belief is that they consist in a vast succession of independent

"pulses" in the ether, each produced when a molecule (or ion, if

such it be) reached the anti-cathode. As the properties of the

Becquerel rays place them between the Rontgen rays and those

of ordinary light, we must suppose the former to consist of a vast

succession of series of vibrations in each of which the disturbance,

though beginning to be somewhat of the value of a regular

periodic disturbance, does not last long.

To fix ideas we may think of such a disturbance as would

be represented by a sine or cosine, multiplied by an exponential

298 SOURCE OF THE ENERGY OF RADIO-ACTIVITY

Iwith a negative index.     imagined the period to be probably

short, and regarded the phenomenon as analogous to Tyndall's
" Calorescence," only instead of the medium (uranium suppose)

Iwhich emits the rays being made active by an enormous con

centration of ethereal waves of low refrangibility, suppose the

source of activity to be the ethereal vibrations which are always
Igoing on at ordinary temperatures.
                                                              suppose the molecular

structure of the uranium (or other similar body) to be such that

a portion of the structure is capable of being thrown into agitation

of a, roughly speaking, independent kind by the movement of a

larger portion, which latter movement is excited and sustained

by the ethereal vibrations which emanate from the various bodies

in the environment*.

   IThe experiments contemplated were qualitative rather than

quantitative, and were such as could be made in quite a short

time. It does not seem desirable to engage in the more difficult

and laborious problem of obtaining quantitative results unless

preliminary qualitative experiments have shown that there is

really something that it is desirable to measure. It had occurred

to me that it would be desirable to guard, as well as conveniently
may be done, against the effect of currents of convection. But it

might perhaps be well to go a step further, and interpose a screen

of thin white paper between the plate which receives the radiation

[*
                                                          it

                                                         it,
and the uranium ball presented to                             so that the atmosphere

When these letters were written           had not yet been recognized that the

phenomenon of radio-activity discovered by M. Becquerel consisted largely of the

expulsion of cathode and other particles from the material, at enormous speed, in

addition to the emission of radiation.

When, after their discovery of radium, M. and Mmo Curie showed the very

copious emission of heat from it, one mode of explanation that was offered is

thrown into sharper relief by these remarks of Sir George Stokes.  was suggested
                                          /S
that the heat emittedA      in fact collected as energy of radiations incident on the
                        is                            fi
radium from the surrounding space and the mechanism of the collection might beis
                            :                                  It

as described above.       rise of temperature of the radium consequent on this wouldis
                                                                              is a
not violate Carnot's principle, provided the incident radiation belonged to a source
at higher temperature, --in the manner exemplified by the trapping of such radiation

by the glass of greenhouse. But the structure by virtue of which the radiant
a

energy in the course of being trapped ejects a and ions would be on such view

one peculiar to radio-active substances.

But in so far as has been verified that the emission of heat permanent, and
                     it

goes on in the dark, the alternative explanation, supported by Rutherford, has come

to be accepted, viz. that the kinetic energy of the a and particles intrinsic
energy of atomic disaggregation, -- being the main part thereof --and that as regards

those particles that are stopped in the substance of the radium this energy trans

formed into sensible heat exhibited by the radium itself.]

        MECHANISM OF FLUORESCENCE                           299

between the screen and the receiving plate may be always the
Isame except in so far as it is affected by the radiation.
                                                            am
Inearly sure (from memory) that am right in supposing that the

IBecquerel like the Rontgen rays pass pretty freely through thin
paper.  mentioned white paper rather than black with the view

of avoiding any significant warming of the paper by heat-radiation

from the ball, so as to prevent the air between the screen and

the receiving plate connected with the electroscope from being

warmed by contact with the paper; a thing which might still
further be prevented, only that it would probably be a superfluous

precaution, by causing a current of air to play against the outer

face of the screen.

    In connection with my ideas about the mode of disturbance in

the uranium molecule, which results in the emission of Becquerel

I Irays, will mention a phenomenon which noticed more than
I40 years ago, when was working with fluorescence. When a
little of salt of uranium was introduced into a blow-pipe bead, I

noticed that when the bead was thoroughly oxidised in the outer
flame, it glowed with a greenish light which recalled the colour of

the phosphorescent light of uranium glass, but when the oxidation

Iwas slightly incomplete, the glow had not this greenish colour.
  conjectured that when the uranium was in state of sesquioxide,
there was a molecular group vibrating in periods corresponding to
a considerable portion of the spectrum up to green inclusive, and

that this mode of vibration was more persistent than usual, the

molecular disturbance remaining roughly speaking isolated ; but

that whenever a small proportion of the uranium was present in

the state of proto-salt, the agitation of the sesquioxide group

passed away by being communicated to the protoxide group.

The phenomena of phosphorescence of uranium compounds

and of radio-activity of uranium itself, seem to point to the

existence of a molecular group which is roughly speaking isolated,

in the sense that vibrations going on in it are not very quickly
Icommunicated to the neighbouring structure*.
                                               have not de-

     [* In an addition to Math, and Phys. Papert, Vol. in. (1892), Prof. Stokes' views
reverted towards the notion of merely general degradation of the incident radiant

energy, analogous to what occurs when a body warmed by solar radiation emits
the energy as heat-waves : but recent observations by Wood, Morse and others,
as to the sharpness and definiteness of the fluorescent spectra, seem to be strongly
in favour of his earlier view, which as appears from this letter he never abandoned.

Prof. Stokes was there guided by an observation that as the fluorescent light faded

300 RADIATION FROM ELECTRIC ARC

scribed the glow-phenomenon in print, as it seemed too small a

matter.
IIf you should have left Le Croisic before this letter arrives,
I suppose it will be forwarded.  am sending my Wilde Lecture

by book-post. The style is rather colloquial; it was in fact

delivered ex tempore, and taken down by a shorthand writer.

Pray present my respects to Madame Becquerel and believe

me,
                                                  Yours very faithfully,

                                 G. G. STOKES.

     Early in 1900 Sir George Stokes published a letter in Nature
remarking on peculiar appearances shown on photographs of
electric lamps that had been sent to him. A suggestion followed
from Prof. R. W. Wood that he was familiar with similar appear
ances due to movement of the camera, but at first Sir George
Stokes thought that as the result of his inquiries such a cause was

excluded. It turned out however on trial that it was not so.

The paper referred to below appeared in Nature of date Mar. 23
but without the postscript, which may have been withdrawn in

correcting the proof.

                                 Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.

Dear Sir Norman [Lockyer],       26 March, 1900.

             I have been making some observations on an arc lamp

Iin the middle of Parker's Piece, using a hand mirror which

moved, a deep blue glass, and a pair of concave spectacles chosen

of such power as to give clearest vision of distant objects with

blue light. I require convex for reading, and for distant objects
my eyes are almost exactly right; I am merely what I may call

infinitesimally long sighted.

   I was able to see the discontinuity (shown in the photographs
Iby the beading) but what was not prepared for is plain from a
Icomparison of what saw with the photographs, namely, that by

very far the greater part of the actinic rays from the lamp come,

not from the incandescent poles, but from the gas inside the glass

globe which protects the poles from wind and from combustion.

   I think it would be worth while to add a P.S. to the short

it became redder : which however may be the analogue of his own result in the
theory of sound, that the same vibrator radiates short waves much more intensely
in proportion than long ones.]

                 VELOCITY OF WAVE-GROUPS                     301

Ipaper sent in for Nature, the object of which was to put on
Ithe white sheet.  enclose an addition if you think it worth

putting in.

                   Yours very truly,

                                      G. G. STOKES.

     The following letter from Prof. Horace Lamb forms part of
a correspondence that went on during the preparation of the
enlarged second edition of the Treatise on Hydrodynamics.

My dear Sir George Stokes,          EsKDALE, vid CARNFORTH.

                                          My 28, 1900.

             I quite agree that the formula c2 = gh (tan mh)|mh is
I' exact ' on the assumptions stated. The only limitation
                                                           see is

that mh (regarded as an angle) must be well within the first

quadrant. As regards the assumption (2) that at the outskirts
Ithe amplitude decreases in geometric progression, think it very
Iprobable, but
                 should be rather puzzled to give a decisive

mathematical reason for my faith*.
The remarks on the history of " group-velocity " are very
Iinteresting.
                 do not recall the formula you mention in Cauchy
Iand Poisson, but I have not the memoirs here.
                                                had for some

time been thinking that it would be worth while to study these

memoirs again by the light of group-velocity +. There is a hint in

Ia paper by Lord Kelvin, quoted on p. 380 of the Hydrodynamics.
If remember rightly, the solution for a limited initial disturbance

is that (subject to certain ranges of time and distance) the waves

Pfound at time t in the neighbourhood of any point are of such

length that the corresponding ^rroup-velocity would bring them in

Itime t from 0 (the origin of disturbance) to P. Probably the

formula you refer to (which must think be original) embodies

the same result.

    I recommended the subject lately to a Smith's Prize Candidate

Iwho was hard up for a subject for an Essay ; but fancy he chose

something else.
I Ilately wrote a small note (which   think I sent you) on

     * See Hydrodynamics, 1895, p. 421. The subject is the motion at the outskirts
of the solitary wave. The passage is reproduced in Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v.

p. 163, along with an extract from the letter to which this is a reply.

   t This intention was carried out in Prof. Lamb's Presidential Address to the

London Mathematical Society, published in their Proceedings for Nov. 1904.

302 THEORY OF CRYSTALLISATION OF ALLOYS

"group- velocity."* The phenomenon is often referred to as "well-
known " by observation, but Scott-Russell is the earliest writer

Iby whom have seen it mentioned

     With many thanks for your letter,
                                  am, Yours very faithfully,

                                                         HORACE LAMB.
                                               I
                                                                               ,f\

Prof. Stokes learned with great interest towards the end of his

life* of the recent development of metallurgy, based on microscopic

examination conjoined with the application of Gibbs' Law of

Phases, subject to which he had been introduced through the
      a
                                                    is
                                                                               a
experiments of Messrs Heycock and Neville at Cambridge, of which

some results formed the Bakeriau Lecture at the Royal Society

for 1903. The following letter                 taken from correspondence

of considerable extent.

                                                                                    Lensfield, Cambridge.

Dear Mr Neville,                                                                    16 April, 1902.

        The facts of the Cu-Sn series, so far as am acquainted
                                               is
with and have digested them, rather lead me to the original view
                                                  I a is
which entertained when first saw your joint work iu that  I
E

  C, I C
     II

                E,
                    D

                         C
                                        C

                                        I
series, mean that in your first paper on that series in the Phil.
Trans. This was that there are definite alloys, H (CuSn),

(Cu3 Sn), and (Cuo Sn), and that D formed by the union

of and  being Cu4 Sn or rather Cu8 Sn2.

      think that the halt at in cooling due to the crystallisation

of which takes place for a composition little richer in copper

than Cu5 Sn at the second freezing point.                                           think that the alloy

Cuo Sn has very strong crystallising (as distinguished from mere

solidifying) power, and that                   crystallises in very thin laminae,
      C

              I

                                     is

                                         it
the direction of which tends to be perpendicular to the gradient

of composition, mean the direction of most rapid variation of

composition. The uniformity of composition belonging to the

ingot when the whole                           molten and well stirred, disturbed in
                                                                                    is
                                                                                                     think
                                                                                           I
cooling by the separation of solids in cooling down to C.

that  crystallises in laminae, leaving mother liquid in the

intervals between them.

     * Manchester Memoirs, xliv. 1900; also Proc. Land. Math. Soc., I. 1904, p. 473.
        See also letters from Mr W. Froude, F.R.S., printed infra. Vol. n. p. 157.
         Cf. however his graphical representation of the relations of ternary alloys

contributed in 1891 to paper by Dr C. R. Alder Wright, F.R.S., Math, and Phys.

Papers, Vol. v. p. 226.
Jt

                                            a

GENERAL IMPRESSION OF CAREER  303

                    FINAL TRIBUTES.

      The incidents of the final years of his life have been recorded
 with authority in a previous chapter. His death on Feb. 1, 1902,
attracted wide attention, and many formal obituary notices of his
career were published. The notice in the London Standard,
speaking with knowledge, referred to the galaxy of mathematical
talent which appeared in Cambridge in the decade when Stokes
took his first degree (1841). The writer finally gave his impressions
of the man and his character.

     " In the previous year the Senior Wrangler was R. L. Ellis,
who, if health had permitted, would certainly have fulfilled his

friends' expectations, high as those were. The Second Wrangler
in the same year was Harvey Goodwin, in his middle age a great
moral and intellectual force in Cambridge, who died Bishop of
Carlisle. In 1842 Cayley, almost unrivalled for his mastery of
Pure Mathematics, was Senior Wrangler, and the next year
Adams, the astronomer, who was said to have distanced every
competitor in the examination, and discovered the planet Neptune
before he became a Master of Arts. These three men, each of

whom has left an enduring mark in his own department of
Mathematics, were afterwards teaching together in their University
as Professors. Again, in 1845, William Thomson, now Lord Kelvin,
was Second Wrangler and First Smith's Prizeman.

     " In person, Stokes was of middle height, rather strongly built,
with clear and sharply cut features, a faint smile often softening
his expression. Simplicity characterised his mode of living, as it
did the man. His taciturnity was proverbial, but he could express

himself well enough when he had to make a speech, and abstained
from words because he did not care to waste them. No one who

broached a favourite subject, or went to Stokes with a difficulty,
could complain that he grudged either pains or time. However

small might be the inquirer's knowledge, Stokes made things as
plain as was possible. Never was there the slightest assumption
of superiority, though he spoke decisively on matters which he
understood better than others. As the late Professor Tait once
said of him, ' Stokes has attacked many questions of the gravest

order of difficulty in pure mathematics, and has carried out
delicate and complex experimental researches of the highest
originality, alike with splendid success. But several of his

304 CAMBRIDGE MATHEMATICAL SCHOOL

greatest triumphs have been won in fields where progress demands
that these distinct and rarely associated powers be brought simul
taneously into action.' "

     On the day after his death, Feb. 2, the following special
leading article appeared in the Standard, which spoke with

obvious knowledge of his work at Cambridge and elsewhere :
     " By the death of Sir George Gabriel Stokes, in his eighty-

fourth year, Cambridge loses one of its most distinguished sons.
He was the last of that little group of Professors -- Stokes, Cayley,
Adams, and, for a shorter time, Maxwell -- who, during most of the

Victorian era, made their names and University familiar wherever

the higher Mathematics are studied. Others there were under

them, like Tait and Kelvin, but their work was not done in

Cambridge ; or like Lord Rayleigh, Maxwell's successor, whose

stay was much shorter than for its own sake the University

desired ; and the old legend of the Golden Bough is being

fulfilled at the present day by younger men. But, like Whewell

and Sedgwick in their day, that quaternion of intellectual strong

men was specially typical of Cambridge and its chief study.

Their University owes them much, yet a chance passer-by, looking
into their lecture-rooms, might have pronounced their work a

failure. Instead of an entranced throng of students, he might

have seen a class of half a dozen, but these would have represented

the very ablest young mathematicians, who were often not all

Undergraduates. To them the Professor was making clear some

of the most difficult subjects in physical mathematics, or feeding
them with the concentrated essence of his own researches. Stokes's

characteristics as a teacher --and the remark must not be limited
to the lecture-room --were lucidity and suggestiveness. He gave

those who listened to him the impression of having his subject

clear before him, and having seen through and beyond it to an

extent impossible to most men. Thus his work, both as a teacher

and as a pioneer, in more than one branch of physical mathematics,

never appealed to the crowd, but was appreciated at its true value

by those who were themselves in the front rank of scientific

investigators.  His chief laurels were won in the sphere of

physical optics; but the remarkable breadth and penetration of

his mind carried him, always with success, into subjects not less

difficult, which in some cases had but a remote connection with

               INTELLECTUAL FEATURES      305

his principal study. Here, again, the value of his services, owing
to his unobtrusive character and method of work, was little known

to the world at large. But when we turn over the volumes of the
Philosophical Transactions and the Proceedings of the Royal
Society, which he served for so many years continuously, first as
Secretary then as President, we discover how often authors thank

fully admit their debt to him for important criticisms and fruitful
suggestions. To the really able student, this man of few words

and reserved demeanour was at once a tonic and a stimulant.
But in his own University, and in a much wider circle, Stokes
had hardly less influence in educational than in scientific questions.

In these, as in all others, as was natural, his mathematical habit

disposed him to caution, but his grasp of truths was too great to
allow him to be an unreasonable obstructive. An aptitude for
business is often not a characteristic of a master in philosophical
studies, but the clearness of thought, calmness of judgment, and
tenacity of memory which won Stokes his scientific eminence
made him hardly less efficient as a member of a Committee.

In his own University it was rare to find one appointed to discuss

any matter of great importance of which he was not a member.
The same valuable qualities were conspicuous in his work as
Secretary to the Royal Society. Though he sat for a few years in
the House of Commons as one of the members for the University,

for the strife of Party politics he can never have greatly cared,
and he spoke only on questions upon which he was an expert.
But his influence, both on Cambridge and on many outside its
boundaries, will be felt for long years to come. Simple in habits,
strenuous in work, free from all taint of self-seeking, Stokes leaves
the example of his life as his legacy to those among whom it was

spent."

     And on the next day, Feb. 3, the Times in an equally
authoritative leading article summed up his career as follows :

" It is merely true, though it may sound paradoxical, to say

that there are men so great that their greatness is not readily

demonstrable.  Such a man was Sir George Gabriel Stokes,

whose death we chronicled yesterday. We may enumerate his

scientific papers, we may expatiate upon his work in optics or

hydrodynamics, we may dwell upon his masterly treatment of some

of the most abstruse problems of pure mathematics, yet only a select

s. b. i.                              20

306 SCIENTIFIC CHARACTER

body of experts can really understand how great he was in these

various directions, while possibly not all the experts understand how

much greater was the man than all his works. He presented the

rare combination of extraordinary penetration with extraordinary

breadth of intellect, producing a lucidity and completeness of treat

ment which masked the difficulties so triumphantly surmounted.
He saw his problems clearly, and he saw them whole ; the finish of

the solution and the apparent lightness of the effort tending to

hide from men's eyes the real magnitude of his achievement.

Yet the work given to the world in his name represents but a

small part of what he did for science. It is not too much to say

that for half a century he was more or less behind the best work

done by other men. Acknowledgments of indebtedness to Sir

George Stokes are common in the best scientific literature, and

private acknowledgments of help, stimulation, or pregnant sugges

tion are still more numerous. He was absolutely free from the

exclusiveness and the secretiveness which are sometimes met with

in men of science. He would no more have thought of disputing

about priority, or the authorship of an idea, than of writing a

report for a company promoter. It was enough for him that

science was being advanced, and his knowledge was always at the

command of any one who seemed able to carry on the work.

There were problems enough for him which no one else could

grapple with, and the derivative researches he was glad to assist
Itothers to make.
                   is impossible to calculate the influence of this

single-minded and generous aid freely given throughout a long
life; but that it must have been enormous will be most fully

conceded by the most eminent scientific workers of the age.

He was in the largest sense a great teacher, always inspiring and

suggestive to those who knew enough to avail themselves of his

commanding insight.
     " Thus the life work of Sir George Stokes is not to be sought

merely or chiefly in his direct contributions to science, valuable

and unique as these are. He was a vivifying influence ever

operating upon the plastic intellect of his time, and his work is

to be looked for in the minds he stimulated, helped, and directed.

It need hardly be said that to play this great part in the

intellectual life of his time a man must be great by character as

well as by intellect. Sir George Stokes was as remarkable for

simplicity and singleness of aim, for freedom from all personal

JUDGMENT IN PRACTICAL AFFAIRS                         307

ambitions and petty jealousies, as for the breadth and depth of
his intellectual equipment. He was a model of what every man
should be who aspires to be a high priest in the temple of nature.

It is sometimes supposed -- and instances in point may doubtless

be adduced -- that minds conversant with the higher mathematics
are unfit to deal with the more ordinary affairs of life. Sir George

Stokes was a living proof that if the mathematician be only big

enough his intellect will handle practical questions as easily and
as well as mathematical formulas. No man was more in request
for management of the ordinary business of his University or of

the Royal Society, none was a greater authority upon educational
questions in general, nor did any bring to the perplexities of

everyday business a sounder judgment or a more imperturbable
serenity. He had other speculations than those of pure science,

and he adhered to convictions which he commended and illustrated

by a life of unblemished integrity and nobility. A great man has
passed away from among us. Let us all in our several degrees

imitate so far as we may a splendid example of singleminded

devotion to great ideals."

     In the following week (Feb. 12), an enthusiastic tribute to his
scientific work by Lord Kelvin occupied the front place in Nature.
The following extracts will prove of interest, as additions to the
appreciations from Lord Kelvin already quoted :

     " Stokes ranged over the whole domain of natural philosophy in

his work and thought ; just one field --electricity --he looked upon

from outside, scarcely entering it. Hydrodynamics, elasticity of
solids and fluids, wave-motion in elastic solids and fluids, were all

exhaustively treated by his powerful and unerring mathematics.
     " Even pure mathematics of a highly transcendental kind has

been enriched by his penetrating genius ; witness his paper ' On
the Numerical Calculation of a Class of Definite Integrals and
Infinite Series*,' called forth by Airy's admirable paper on the

intensity of light in the neighbourhood of a caustic, practically
the theory of the rainbow. Prof. Miller had succeeded in observing
thirty out of an endless series of dark bands in a series of spurious
rainbows, for the determination of which Airy had given a tran

scendental equation and had calculated, of necessity most labori

     * Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. i. pp. 329--357.  From Camb. PhiU Soc,
March 11, 1850.                                                         20--2

 308 APPRECIATION BY LORD KELVIN

ously by aid of ten-figure logarithms, results giving only two of
those black bands. Stokes, by mathematical supersubtlety,
transformed Airy's integral into a form by which the light at
any point of any of those thirty bands, and any desired greater
number of them, could be calculated with but little labour, and

with greater and greater ease for the more and more distant
places where Airy's direct formula became more and more im
practicably laborious. He actually calculated fifty of the roots,
giving the positions of twenty black bands beyond the thirty seen
by Miller.

     " With Stokes, mathematics was the servant and assistant, not
the master. His guiding star in science was natural philosophy.
Sound, light, radiant heat, chemistry, were his fields of labour,
which he cultivated by studying properties of matter, with the
aid of experimental and mathematical investigation.

     " The greatest and most important of all the optical papers of
Stokes was communicated to the Royal Society on May 27, 1852,
under the title ' On the Change of the Refrangibility of Light*.'
In this paper his now well-known discovery of fluorescence is
described, according to which a fluorescent substance emits in all
directions from the course through it of a beam of homogeneous
light. The periods of analysed constituents of this fluorescent
light, in all Stokes's experiments, were found to be longer than

the period of the exciting incident light. But I believe fluorescent

light of shorter periods than the exciting light has been dis
covered in later times.

      "Stokes found that the fluorescence vanished very quickly after

cessation of the incident light. A beautiful supplement to his

investigation was made by Edmond Becquerel showing a per
sistence of the fluorescent light for short times, to be measured in
thousandths of a second, after the cessation of the exciting light.

     " Stokes's fundamental discovery of fluorescence is manifestly
of the deepest significance iu respect to the dynamics of waves,
and of intermolecular vibrations of ether excited by waves, and
causing fresh trains of waves to travel through the fluorescent
substance. The prismatic analysis of the fluorescent light for
any given period of incident light was investigated by Stokes for
a large number of substances in his first great paper on the
subject, and was followed up by further investigations by Stokes

                 * Phil. Trans, and Math, and Phyi. Papers, pp. 259--407.

SPECIAL ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF SCIENTIFIC HELP                        309

himself in later years, of which some of the results are given in
his paper ' On the Long Spectrum of the Electric Light ' (Phil.

Trans., June 19, 1862).
     " Stokes's scientific work and scientific thought is but partially

represented by his published writings. He gave generously and

freely of his treasures to all who were fortunate enough to have

opportunity of receiving from him. His teaching me the principles

Iof solar and stellar chemistry when we were walking about among

the colleges some time prior to 1852 (when vacated my Peter-

house fellowship to be no more in Cambridge for many years) is

but one example. Many authors of communications to the Royal

ISociety during the thirty years of his secretaryship remember,

Iam sure gratefully, the helpful and inspiring influence of his con
versations with them.  wish some of the students who have

followed his Lucasian lectures could publish to the world his
Opticae Lectiones ; it would be a fitting sequel to the ' Opticae
Lectiones ' of his predecessor in the Lucasian chair, Newton.

     " The world is poorer through his death, and we who knew him

feel the sorrow of bereavement."

This notice called forth a letter in Nature from a well-known

and distinguished chemist, as follows :

     " The eulogy of Stokes by Lord Kelvin, contributed to your
columns in terms so appropriately simple, a eulogy so sincere, as
we all know, and more authoritative than could be pronounced by
anyone else in the world, furnishes an incident that must impress

the minds of all true lovers of science. It is not my purpose to

Iintrude where have no business, but I do feel most keenly the

strong call there is to English men of science to see that the

hidden work of Stokes does not remain any longer concealed.

There is not the least doubt that his greatness and true worth

escaped the observation of contemporaries outside the circle of real

scientific workers, and there has been one conspicuous occasion quite

recently when the order of his merit has been signally ignored.

   I"About ten years ago the attention of Stokes was attracted to

some work in which was engaged, and this started a correspond
I Ience.
had no previous personal acquaintance with him, and

am sure he had no previous scientific acquaintance with me, but

notwithstanding this he immediately placed the vast powers of

his mind at my disposal, and assisted me with encouragement and

       310 DESIRABILITY OF A SCIENTIFIC BIOGRAPHY

advice that from my best friend would have been liberal in amount,

       whilst in value they could have been equalled from no other

Isource. The abundance, lucidity and punctuality of his corre
spondence were amazing.                 have had as many as three letters

from him in one day, and on a particular occasion a telegram in

addition, to say that he feared he had expressed himself in one of
Ithe letters with too much confidence.
                                                    was naturally not a little
proud of this connection with a great man, but if my pride had

tended to assume the form of vanity, that would have been frus
Itrated by the discovery
                             was ever afterwards making of the

apparently endless number of scientific workers who have received

       from Stokes the same unstinted help.

          I" wish, therefore, to express the hope that in any memoir of

       Stokes that is published there should be some attempt to gather

       the unostentatious testimony that would be so cheerfully given by

       those who are so much beholden to the great and good man who
       Ithas passed from among us.
                                                    seems to me to be at the least a

       duty to scientific history to help our posterity to see clearly that

       the order of Stokes's merit as a man and a philosopher was that of

       Faraday and Newton."                         Chemicus.

            MEMORIAL IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

       The funeral at Cambridge had been attended by weighty

       delegations from the learned Societies, who represented all that

       was best in the scientific life of Great Britain. Directly after

       wards the Royal Society resolved that the duty devolved onit ;
                                                           it,
       in response to  desire widely expressed, of consulting the
                       a
                                                 a
       University of Cambridge with a view to joint action in providing

       national memorial. This resulted in the issue of the following
a
      apreliminary circular.                        public Memorial to commemorate
            " The subject of providing

in fitting manner the scientific career of the late Sir George

       Gabriel Stokes has recently occupied the attention of the University

of Cambridge and of the Royal Society, on both of which bodies

he conferred distinction for so long a period by his labours and

a      joint Committee has been constituted in order to take the

matter into consideration and devise measures for carrying into

execution.

PREPARATIONS FOR A NATIONAL MEMORIAL  311

    "A preliminary meeting of this Committee was convened in

the rooms of the Royal Society, Burlington House, London, W.,
on Thursday, March 12, 1903, at 3 o'clock. There were present
The Duke of Devonshire, Chancellor of the University of Cam
bridge, Rev. Prof. Chase, President of Queens' College, Vice-
Chancellor, Prof. Sir Richard Jebb, M.P., Prof. G. H. Darwin,
Prof. Sir R. S. Ball, Prof. A. R. Forsyth, and Mr W. Burnside of
Pembroke College, as representatives of the University of Cam
bridge; and Sir W. Huggins, President of the Royal Society,
Lord Kelvin, Past President, Principal G. Carey Foster, Vice-
President, Mr A. B. Kempe, Treasurer, Sir Michael Foster and

Prof. J. Larmor, Secretaries, Dr T. E. Thorpe, Foreign Secretary,

Prof. G. D. Liveing, and Prof. A. E. H. Love, as representatives of

the Royal Society. Lord Rayleigh and Prof. J. J. Thomson were

unavoidably absent.

    " On the proposal of the President of the Royal Society,

the Chair was taken by the Duke OF Devonshire.
    "The following resolutions were adopted unanimously :--

    (I) Proposed by the President of the Royal Society,
seconded by the Vice-Chancellor of the University of

Cambridge,

            That it is desirable to place a Memorial of Sir George
       Gabriel Stokes in Westminster Abbey.

    (II) Proposed by Lord Kelvin, seconded by Prof. Sir Richard

Jebb, M.P.,

            That a joint letter, as now read in draft, be sent from the
       Chancellor of the University of Cambridge and the President
       of the Royal Society to the Dean of Westminster, requesting
       the authority of the Dean and Chapter to place a Memorial
       in the Abbey in the form of a Medallion relief portrait of
       Sir George Gabriel Stokes, of the same general character as
       the memorials of Charles Darwin and other scientific men
       now in the Abbey.

   (III) Proposed by Sir Michael Foster, seconded by Prin

cipal G. Carey Foster,
            That a Sub-Committee, consisting of the President of the

       Royal Society, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of
       Cambridge, the Treasurer of the Royal Society, Prof. Liveing,
      Prof. G. H. Darwin, Prof. Forsyth, and the Junior Secretary
       of the Royal Society, be constituted (in case the consent of

312 PORTRAIT MEDALLION IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY

the Dean and Chapter of Westminster is obtained) to send
out a circular inviting subscriptions for this purpose, to
Fellows of the Royal Society, and to Members of the
University of Cambridge, and to such other persons as they
may think fit : that the Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Cambridge and the Treasurer of the Royal Society be
requested to act as Treasurers, and that Prof. Forsyth and
the Junior Secretary of the Royal Society be requested to
act as Secretaries.

     That the Sub-Committee be empowered, in consultation
with the family of the late Sir George Gabriel Stokes and
with the Dean and Chapter of Westminster and such other
persons as they think fit, to take the initial steps for the
production of such a Memorial, and to report to a meeting
of the Subscribers to be summoned for a subsequent date.

     "We have now to report, on behalf of this Sub-Committee, that

in response to the letter above mentioned a reply was received

from the Dean of Westminster expressing his general assent to

the proposal and his willingness to take detailed plans into con

sideration. It has therefore been arranged by the Sub-Committee,

after consultation with the Dean of Westminster, that a commission
be offered to Mr Hamo Thornycroft, R.A. to execute a Medallion,

the material to be bronze and the head to be in high relief ; and
Mr Thornycroft has undertaken to proceed with the work.

     "Accordingly, we invite subscriptions towards placing a Memo
rial of the late Sir George Gabriel Stokes in Westminster Abbey of

the character above described. It is estimated that a sum of £400

will be required for this purpose. Subscriptions should be made
payable to Messrs Barclay & Co., Limited, Bankers, and should be
sent either to them at their Cambridge Branch or to the Treasurer
of the Royal Society. A preliminary list of subscribers is annexed.

            A. R. Forsyth I Secretaries to the

            J. Larmor  ) Sub-Committee.

May, 1903.

    All the arrangements were promptly carried out, and a meeting
was held on July 7, 1904, in the Jerusalem Chamber, Westminster

Abbey, to formally transfer the memorial to the custody of the

authorities of the Abbey. The following report is taken from the
official "Statement of Proceedings" issued by the University of
Cambridge and the Royal Society jointly.

       TRANSFERRED TO THE CUSTODY OF THE AUTHORITIES 313

                   Meeting at Westminster Abbey.

     The Memorial of the late Sir George Gabriel Stokes, which
has been erected in the North Aisle of the Choir of Westminster
Abbey, was unveiled on Thursday, July 7, 1904, by the Duke
of Devonshire, Chancellor of the University of Cambridge, and
formally transferred to the Authorities of the Abbey. The
ceremony was preceded by a meeting in the Jerusalem Chamber,
the invitations to which were sent out in the name of the Duke
of Devonshire and the President of the Royal Society, and were
confined with a few exceptions to the subscribers to the memorial.
This restriction was necessitated by the limited accommodation
both in the Jerusalem Chamber and in the part of the Abbey
where the memorial has been placed. The Dean of Westminster
presided ; and among those who accepted the invitation were the
Duke of Devonshire, Sir William Huggins (President of the Royal
Society), the American Ambassador, Lord Kelvin, Lord Salisbury,
Sir R. C. Jebb, M.P, Sir John Gorst, M.P., Mr Bryce, M.P., Sir
Arthur and Lady Stokes, Dr and Mrs L. Humphry, the Bishop
of Bristol, the Vice-Chancel lor of Cambridge University, the
Master of Trinity, the Dean of Christchurch, the Master of
St John's, the Mayor of Westminster, the Archdeacon of Taunton
and Mrs Askwith, Canon Duckworth, Bishop Welldon, Canon and
Mrs Beeching, Canon and Mrs Hensley Henson, Sir F. Bridge,
Mr and Mrs Adam Sedgwick, Mr Hamo Thornycroft, R.A., Mr Aldis
Wright, Mr A. P. Humphry, the Rev. W. F. Stokes, the Rev.
Gabriel Stokes, the Rev. Dr H. P. Stokes, Mr Marlborough Pryor,

the Rev. J. F. Bethune-Baker, Mr A. Hutchinson, Prof. G. Sims
Woodhead, Dr D. MacAlister, Mr S. Skinner, Mr J. Hora,

and the following Fellows of the Royal Society: Prof. Clifford

Allbutt, Prof. J. Attfield, Dr Shelford Bidwell, the Rev. Dr Bonney,

Principal Carey Foster, Sir W. Crookes, Prof. G. H. Darwin, Sir
James Dewar, Prof. H. B. Dixon, Dr E. Divers, Dr Dupre\ Dr F.
Elgar, Prof. Ewing, Sir Joseph Fayrer, General Festing, Prof.
Forsyth, Mr F. Galton, Mr Percy Gilchrist, the Rev. R. Harley,

Mr J. B. N. Hennessy, Mr C. T. Heycock, Mr W. H. Hudleston,
Prof. J. W. Judd, Mr A. B. Kempe, Prof. H. Lamb, Prof. J. Larmor,

Prof. G. D. Liveing, Sir Norman Lockyer, Major MacMahon,

Mr H. F. Newall, Sir Andrew Noble, Prof. J. Perry, Dr Isaac

314 MEETING IN JERUSALEM CHAMBER

Roberts, Dr E. J. Routh, Sir Arther Rücker, Sir B. Samuelson,
Dr R. H. Scott, Prof. J. J. Thomson, Dr T. E. Thorpe, Capt.

Tizard, R.N., Prof. F. T. Trouton and Mr W. C. D. Whetham.
     Dr Larmor, Secretary of the Royal Society, reported the

receipt of letters of apology from persons unable to attend.
Mr Balfour had accepted the invitation, but expressed a doubt
that engagements elsewhere might ultimately prevent his attend
ance. Lord Goschen regretted that it would not be possible for
him to attend. Lord Lister greatly regretted that he was unable
to be present. And among others from whom letters of regret
had been received were Sir Joseph Hooker, Sir Michael Foster,
the Earl of Belmore, Lord Avebury, Mr Chamberlain, the Bishops

of London, Rochester, Worcester, Wakefield, and Stepney, Lord
Justice Stirling, Sir E. Thornton, and the Master of Pembroke

College, Cambridge.

The Dean of Westminster said:

     My Lord Duke, My Lord High Steward, My Lords and
Gentlemen :

       We meet on one of those rare occasions, which must become

rarer still, unless further provision is presently made for the
reception of memorials of our most distinguished countrymen in
this place. When we shall have filled the vacant space next to
the medallion which we uncover to-day, it will be difficult to point
to other places on our crowded walls where such a tablet, small
as it                                            This is not the time to
dwell  is,  may    appropriately    be set up.  than reiterate a warning
        on   this                 do no more
                    subject. I

already given by my predecessor.

   IWe meet to give and receive the memorial of a great and good

man. Last year received a communication from the Duke of
Devonshire and Sir William Huggins, on behalf of a joint Com
mittee representing the University of Cambridge and the Royal
Society. This was a preliminary enquiry as to the possibility of
erecting a memorial in Westminster Abbey to Sir George Gabriel
Stokes. The application was rested upon "the high distinction
of Sir George Gabriel Stokes, which received remarkable testimony
from the entire scientific world at home and abroad, on the
occasion of the Jubilee of his professorship at Cambridge in the
year 1899, his enduring services to learning and in public affairs,
and his lofty personal character." The issue of that application
you will see to-day in the excellent portrait-medallion by Mr Hamo
Thornycroft. You will find that it is placed next to the memorial
of his life-long friend Professor Adams, and next but one to that
of Charles Darwin. The Cambridge calendar shows a unique trio

APPRECIATION BY THE DEAN OF WESTMINSTER                                         315

of Senior Wranglers  in three    successive     years: 1841, Stokes;
1842, Cayley; 1843,  Adams.                     age of Mathematical
                                 It was an
giants. We are honoured to-day by the presence of a great
survivor of that generation ; for Thomson, now Lord Kelvin, took

his degree in 1845. I could have wished that this memorial could
have borne a few descriptive words, like the epigrammatic sentence
on Adams's tablet, " Neptunum calculo monstravit." But our efforts
in this direction were baffled. No single achievement could be
named, typical of the whole of Stokes's work, which might give the
passer-by a keynote of his distinction. To emphasise a single
point would have been to depreciate his greatness, which was the
greatness of a master who held undisputed sway over some of the
most active intellects in the scientific world. He had the generosity
of greatness, and its humility ; and his work, which would have

added to his fame if he had published it himself, often lies beneath
the work of other men as the foundation of their securest results.

IIf Imight borrow another metaphor from a sacred source, believe
Ithat am justified in saying that some of the discoverers and of
the interpreters of
coveries have again  the  most   profoundly     imntoemreesnttingheamrdod"eran    dis
                     and  again  at a critical                                  voice

behind them saying, This is the way." His is the kind of greatness
which the world is slow to learn, but not slow to honour when it is
Ideclared on unimpeachable testimony. For such testimony
Ifearlessly appeal in this historic room to-day.  have said that

Ihe was good as well as great. The generosity and humility to

which have alluded belonged to both qualities at their highest.
His lofty character was the outcome of a Christian life. Like his
great confreres Cayley and Adams he was not only a firm believer
in the Christian revelation but also a godly and devout man. He
was bold in speculation on religious topics, and deeply interested
in the underlying harmonies of religion and science. Averse from
speaking, he gave a silent and impressive support to very many
of the good causes of religion and philanthropy. Perhaps no man
has ever sat silent on so many platforms. The cause which secured
his presence was visibly strengthened by the countenance of this
sober, peaceable, and conscientious son of the Church of England.

Sir William Huggins said :

     Mr Dean, My Lord Duke, My Lords and Gentlemen :

       It is my duty to state in a few words the part which the

Royal Society has taken in the promotion of this memorial, and
also the grounds on which the Royal Society considers Sir George
Stokes eminently worthy of the high public recognition of a place
within the adjoining Abbey. Sir George Stokes, during the fifty-
three years of his Fellowship, rendered the Royal Society ex
ceptional services. His labours were incessant on its behalf ; and
his noble example and the inspiration of his personal influence

316 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY

were strongly felt within the Society during the thirty-one years
that he acted as Secretary, and the five succeeding years
during which he presided over the Society. But, grateful as we
are to Sir George Stokes, it was not on account of the work
within the Society that the Royal Society considered it right to
take steps to secure a lasting public memorial to his memory, but
as a great man who had
fundamental discoveries  rendered signal services         to  his country  by
                           in physical science.               seemed to    us
                                                          It
fitting that we should be associated in this undertaking with the
University of Cambridge, which some four years before had
conferred upon Sir George Stokes the unusual honour of a festal
commemoration of his fifty years' Professorship, and struck a medal
as a memorial of the occasion. The University returned a favour
able answer to our suggestion ; a joint Committee was constituted,
and, in response to its application, permission was cordially granted
by the Dean of Westminster for the placing of this memorial in
the adjoining Abbey.
The studies of Sir George Stokes ranged through the whole
domain of physical science, and whatever he touched he illumined
and enriched with the penetration and power of his mind. But it
was in problems relating to optics and to aether that his mathe
matical work opened out new vistas in exact science, and laid
no small part of the foundation of the physical science of the
nineteenth century. Rich as were his discoveries in experimental
science, perhaps they were more than equalled by his masterly
advances in the application of mathematics to physics, which, in
the combination of technical skill and physical intuition,
models of the mathematical analysis of scientific questions.         remain

                                                                     It may
be said that his lucidity, and the perfection of form of his treatment
of scientific subjects, often masked the difficulties which he had

overcome, and so rendered less immediately obvious the greatness
of his achievements. As with his work, so with Sir George Stokes
himself, the completeness of his mastery perhaps to some extent
rendered less obvious and strong the impression which he made
upon the men of his time : in the same way as a great work of art
through its perfect symmetry and harmony may impress ordinary

beholders less strongly than a work that is of smaller merit. It may

be said that the distinguishing characteristic of Sir George Stokes
was the even balance of his powers, which left no one quality of
his mind unduly prominent. His extraordinary penetration was
associated with great  borfeajuddthgmoef nvt.iew,Ifanhde             in check by
remarkable soundness                                      was kept   was perhaps
                                                          erred, it
in the direction of excess of caution, which, it may be, occasionally
prevented his pushing home his investigations to their natural
conclusion. The influence of Sir George Stokes upon the mind
of his time was what it was because he was as great in character
as in intellect. He freely gave generous help to all who sought it.
Distinguished by simplicity of living, by pure honesty of purpose,

STATEMENT BY LORD KELVIN  317

by freedom from all the pettiness of personal ambition, he lived
nobly the strenuous life, and his name liveth evermore. Mr Dean,
it is on these grounds that the Royal Society considered Sir George
Stokes worthy of a memorial in our national shrine by the side of
those of Newton, Herschel, Darwin, Adams and Joule.

    Lord Kelvin said :
    In his scientific work and thought Stokes ranged over the

whole domain of natural knowledge. Hydrodynamics, elasticity
of solids and fluids, wave-motion in elastic solids and fluids, were
all exhaustively treated by his powerful and unerring mathematics.
Even in pure mathematics, he was recognised as a fruitful worker
by the whole scientific world. But with him mathematics was the
servant and assistant, not the master. His guiding star in science
was Natural Philosophy. Sound, light, radiant heat, chemistry,
were fields of labour which he cultivated by studying properties
of matter, with the aid of experimental and mathematical investi
gation. His earliest results, published in papers communicated to
the Cambridge Philosophical Society in 1842 and 1843, were
mathematical and experimental investigations in fluid motion,
and on the viscosity of fluids. From this he went on to the
elasticity of glass, iron, and other natural and artificial solids. He
thus laid the foundation of the whole modern science of elasticity,
involving as it does much thoroughly demonstrated, and brilliantly
illuminating, contradiction of views given to the world by great
mathematicians and experimenters, who had preceded him. One
of his most beautiful results was the theory of the suspension of
clouds, and the change through which they become rain. An
astonishing and beautiful application of this theory has been made
within the last few years in electrical researches carried out at

Cambridge under Professor J. J. Thomson and his brilliant

research-corps.

     While still occupied with his work on the physical properties
of fluids and elastic solids, he gave to the world, in 1850, a
magnificent paper on water-waves, containing a thoroughly original
and masterly investigation of a most difficult problem, the deter
mination of the motion of steep deep-sea waves. The greatest
mathematicians of Europe had previously been only able to
investigate waves of such gentle slope, and such slightly curved
surface, that they could scarcely be perceived by an unaided eye.
Stokes boldly attacked the problems of real ocean waves, and
found that the steepest possible of regular waves has a crest
of 120°, with a slope of 30° down from it before and behind;
an admirable triumph of mathematics !

     Great as was all that work on fluid motion, more than enough
for a lifetime of scientific research, Stokes' greatest province
was light and optics. Time forbids my speaking of this in detail

  318 STATEMENT BY LORD RAYLEIGH

  Iat present.             can only say in short that he gave overwhelmingly
  strong reason for believing that the vibrations of aether, constituting
  light polarized by reflection from water or glass or other transparent
  substance, are perpendicular to the plane of incidence and reflection.
  He laid the foundation for Lord Rayleigh's admirable theory of the
  blue sky. He discovered fluorescence, afterwards found by Edmond
  Becquerel to be continuous with phosphorescence, on which his
  father Antoine and he himself had worked so much, and which his

  son Henri has now found to be fundamentally connected with the
  marvellous optical properties of the radio-activity discovered

  by him.

    The scientific work and scientific thought of Sir George Stokes
  is but partially represented by his published writings. He gave
  generously and freely of his treasures to all who were fortunate
  enough to have opportunity of receiving from him. His teaching
  me the principles of solar and stellar chemistry when we were
                                       colleges some time
  wI avlakciantgedabmouyt   among the  fellowship to be no  prior  to  1852, when
                           Peterhouse                       more   in  Cambridge

  for many years, is but one example. Many authors of communica
  Itions to the Royal Society during the thirty years of his secretary

  ship remember, am sure gratefully, the helpful and inspiring
  influence of his conversations with them.

       For sixty years of my own life, from 1843 to 1903, 1 looked up
  to Stokes as my teacher, guide, and friend. His death was for me
  truly a bereavement.

    Lord Rayleigh said :

       That after what had fallen from the paramount authority,
  Lord Kelvin, it would not be necessary for him to say very much.
  IfLord Kelvin, although he had modestly disclaimed
it                                                                     could speak

                                              a

                                                                      it

                                                                                            a it,
                                                                                                            a

                                                                                                                                a
as  an equal and almost as a contemporary of Stokes.                    he  followed,
    would be as one who was in a very real sense his               pupil.
                                                                              It was
just 40 years since he, in common with most of the aspirants for
mathematical honours of the year, attended Stokes' lectures on

physical optics. It was delight to him, with his youthful scientific

enthusiasm, to learn from one who was so completely master of
his subject, and who was able to introduce into his lectures matter
fresh from the scientific anvil. Among the experiments he showed
them in that course was a fundamental one in physiology, now
very well known, on the spectrum of blood. Blood in its natural
condition showed, as was known to most of them, remarkable

Ifabsorption spectrum, two dark lines in the region of the green.

    that blood was subjected to the chemical influence of such
substance as a ferrous salt, which could deprive of oxygen, the
absorption spectrum was transformed, and instead of the two
separate bands in the green they found one single and more
diffuse and broad one. The experiment was shown to them, as

           TYPICAL INVESTIGATIONS                      319

undergraduates, before it was known, he believed, to the scientific
world, or to the Royal Society itself ; for it was in that year that
those results were first published. The appliances used were
always of the simplest ; and that was a lesson which many modern

enquirers might profit by, for elaborate    apparatus   was not always
required, and was even sometimes in       the way.
                                                       It was the same

with other things. Lord Kelvin had alluded to Stokes' great
discovery of Fluorescence. Well did he remember one of the
leading experiments on that subject, in which a solution of the
green colouring matter of leaves was made to glow, under the in
fluence of dark radiation, with intense and blood-red colour.
With regard to this influence of a beam of solar light the original
detection of the mere phenomenon was due to Brewster, but its
profound significance, extraordinary and unexpected as it was, was
first made out by the searching analysis of Stokes.

Lord Kelvin had alluded to Stokes' early anticipations on the

subject of what was now called Spectrum Analysis. Stokes was
always very modest upon this subject, and almost repudiated the

credit which Lord Kelvin and others wished to give him. All one
could say was that the thing lay between Lord Kelvin and Stokes.
The letters which passed between them in 1854, and which had
recently been published in the Collected Papers, showed plainly
enough that the ideas were     theIrte.migLhotrdbe,Keanlvdinwatosldliktehleymenhoeuggho,t
his inspirations from Stokes.
that he developed them ; but at any rate, between the two

correspondents they had the whole theory.

Optics, no doubt, was Stokes' greatest subject ; but in other
departments of physics they learnt much from him. There was
one short paper which was constantly in his own mind, when,
as scientific adviser to the Trinity House, he had opportunities
of observing the extraordinary vagaries of sound-signals as heard

from a distance. It was well known that the sound was less
easily heard up wind than down wind, but the explanation had
been a mystery. Stokes showed that it depended not so much
upon the wind in general, but upon the fact that a wind usually
blew more powerfully overhead than it did at the surface of the
ground. In consequence of this, a sound wave proceeding outward,
which would naturally progress in a vertical plane, was diverted
out of that plane ; in proceeding up wind, the upper parts of the
wave were retarded more than the lower part, and thus the
           of the propagation was diverted
direction                                   upwards and so passed
overhead.    It was only in about a page    of print that Stokes
developed his view, but there it was for all to understand. There
was another problem connected with acoustics to which his own

attention had been a good deal given. Solid bodies vibrated
without much change of volume, and in consequence of that,
while some parts of the surface were advancing others were

320 STATEMENT BY THE VICE-CHANCELLOR OF CAMBRIDGE

receding. Considered as sources of sound, the various parts of

                might be                      usually as contributing as much
               negative.                      at once that there must be great
Ifthe surface             Itrefgoallrodweedd
                     all these positive and negative sources were
positive as
interference.

situated close to the neighbourhood of the same point they would
neutralise one another; it was only because that condition was

not fulfilled that we got any sound whatever. It is known that
the sound of a bell vibrating in a jar is largely stifled when most
of the air is pumped out of the jar: and it was the remarkable
observation made by Sir John Leslie that it is still more stifled
when the partial vacuum is replaced by hydrogen that directed
attention to this subject. Stokes found the key in the more

rapid propagation of disturbance in hydrogen, which allowed the

positive and negative sources above mentioned more completely
to counteract each other; and of this principle he made far-

reaching applications.

     Stokes' papers dealt mainly with mathematics and physics.
Sometimes one read a paper belonging to that department of
science in which one failed to find anything either of mathematical

interest or of physical interest. In Stokes' papers he need not say

Ifone or other interest was ever present, and very often both.

    they reviewed his work they must conclude, he thought, that
in hydrodynamics and in optics his achievements were fundamental.
Instinct amounting to genius, and accuracy of workmanship, were
everywhere apparent ; in scarcely a single instance, as the Dean
had said, had his advances failed to lead in a right direction.

It gave him pleasure to express, even though feebly, the almost

unbounded admiration which, for more than forty years, he had
felt for Sir George Stokes, especially of course as a physicist, but
also, perhaps, not much less as a citizen and as a man.

     The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge (Rev.
Dr Chase*) said:

    The President of the Royal Society, Lord Kelvin, and Lord
Rayleigh have now with singular felicity and with fullness of
knowledge and authority, borne their testimony to the great and
permanent worth      of the  contribution which Sir George Stokes
made to science.             of course, because it is universally ac
                     It is,
knowledged that he held a unique position in the very front rank
of scientific men, that you, Mr Dean, have felt able so readily
to accede to the request that a medallion of him should have
    place in         Abbey. Speaking on behalf of
Ia  his Grace  the   Chancellor will allow me to do so  the University,
                the                                     in his presence,
if  desire to thank you, Mr Dean, for your kindness and your
sympathy in this matter, which we in Cambridge have had so
much at heart. But quite apart from his scientific greatness,

                          * Now Lord Bishop of Ely.

DEDICATION OF THE WESTMINSTER ABBEY MEMORIAL 321

there are reasons why the University of Cambridge welcomes with
peculiar satisfaction the rare and signal honour which is to-day
accorded to the name of Sir George Stokes. Continually resident
Ias he was in the University since the time when he came up as a

freshman, think in 1837, his life in Cambridge spanned that
notable epoch of change and of development which has transformed
the University. As you, sir, have reminded us, he was the senior
and last survivor of that great triumvirate of professors, who so
long, and with such rare distinction, represented the Mathematical
School at Cambridge. For five years he sat in Parliament as the
Member for the University; and consistently all through the
many years of his Cambridge life, all alike, whether they could
or could not duly appreciate his scientific and intellectual greatness,
recognised the simplicity and the truthfulness of his character, the
dignity and the impressiveness of his presence -- the outward
symbol of the calm and generous spirit, his patience and his
lofty conscientiousness in all details of daily business, his
and his unfailing kindness to all with whom he had to          cdoou--rtensoyt

least to the young and the undistinguished, his unswerving loyalty
and devotedness to the University, and to his own college, of
which for five short months he was Master, his deep reverence
for all that is most worthy of reverence in human life. On two

occasions, which no one who was present at them can ever forget,
the deep respect and regard which men felt for him found definite
and emphatic expression. The University rejoiced at the time of
his Jubilee as Lucasian Professor that the most modest of her sons

should have decisive proof in his lifetime in how high honour he
Iwas held by scientific men the whole world over. The scene in
the crowded University Church at his funeral, was,             believe,
unique. The example of Sir George Stokes, both in what he did
and more especially in what he himself was, is the abiding in
heritance of the University which he loved, and which he served
so long and so faithfully ; and that University rejoices with no
common joy to-day that his name will now have a permanent
memorial which all men can read on the historic walls of this

great national Church.

     The Dean :

    It is my privilege, my high honour, to lead you into the

Church, and ask the Duke of Devonshire to unveil the memorial

that is there placed.

     The company then proceeded to the Abbey, where, after a

brief devotional service, the medallion was unveiled by the Duke
of Devonshire, who said :

   ISpeaking on behalf of the subscribers offer this medallion

to be added to the memorials and to be preserved in the Abbey
Church.

s. b. I.                                                       21

322 COLLECTED SCIENTIFIC PAPERS

The Dean in reply said :  ,

I Speaking in the name of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster
  accept this medallion to keep and preserve amongst the memorials
of the good and great men in this place.

     The Medallion is of bronze in high relief and is a striking

portrait of the late Sir George Stokes. It is affixed in the north

aisle of the Abbey, adjacent to similar memorials of Darwin and
Adams, and not far from the graves of Newton, Herschel, and

Darwin. It bears the inscription

                 George Gabriel Stokes, 1819 -- 1903.

     Another memorial, even more durable, has now been completed.
The University of Cambridge had arranged that the reprint of
his Scientific Memoirs, which had been proceeding with valuable
additions for many years during his lifetime, should be carried on
with all the care that was possible. This task has now been
finished, by the addition of two more volumes, including the
obituary notice written by Lord Rayleigh for the Royal Society,
and embellished by selected portraits ; the collection consists of
five volumes in all.

    It can hardly be said that Stokes was the founder of a school,

in the ordinary sense of the term, as illustrated by the manner
in which Lord Kelvin in early days pushed on the dynamical
side of the discoveries of Faraday, or the way in which Maxwell
infected his contemporaries with aethereal and molecular science.
His interests were too wide, his attitude of mind too cautious,

and his restraint on what he called speculations far too severe.

In his writings we rarely get a glimpse of anything but the

finished product; as in the case of Gauss and other masters of the

same calm temperament, the human environment has to be re

constructed as best we can.

      The urgency of his contemporaries too, following upon the
unique scientific position which he held in Great Britain, com
pelled him to take all physical science to be his province, not by
the fruitful method of passing from time to time from one depart
ment to another as they interested him, but by a simultaneous grasp
of the whole. The stretch of mind which this involves is hard

to combine with the reflecting repose that eats its way into the
heart of a single problem.

PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS                                      323

Not the least of the interests of the letters, from which a

selection is here published, is that they reveal the fascination of

human endeavour alongside the formal record of finished achieve

ment. They press home, too, the justice of the claim, long
insisted on by Lord Kelvin and others who were on terms of

continued intimate association with him, but perhaps not so

clearly understood by the younger generation to whom he was

largely a historical figure, that he was a main guiding and con
Iftrolling power in the physical science of his time.
                                                       a school has

not survived him, it is because his work has been absorbed into

the spirit of the age. We can now see more clearly how much
fruitful effort in others he started and stimulated, to how many

investigators he supplied the confidence that comes from an
initial success. But it is also evident how much of his time was

wasted, even in his prime, by his scrupulous deference to the

demands of correspondents, conscientious and estimable people in

the main, from whose importunities there should have been some

sort of protection.

    In University affairs he was implicitly trusted by all parties.
A story was current in the eighties of a party manager who was

caustically forecasting in semi-serious vein the probable actions of

the persons concerned in a certain election, as dictated by party
or prejudice : he had got almost through the list, but still one

name remained which seemed to baffle his skill ; after a pause he
continued "and Stokes -- will give an honest vote."

                                                       21--2

           SECTION IIIa.

SPECIAL SCIENTIFIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Letters to Dr ROMNEY ROBINSON, 1875--1879

                           and 1880--1881.

     The first group of the following letters have been selected from
a series belonging to the period 1875-9, carefully arranged in years
evidently by Dr Robinson himself. The remaining part is printed

from duplicate typewritten copies preserved among Prof. Stokes'

manuscripts.

    A long correspondence on anemometers of the year 1877 is
omitted : reference may be made to Dr Robinson's memoir, Phil.

Trans. 1878, also to Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. pp. 73--99.

                Cambridge, ith Jan. 1875.

...I heard to-day from Mrs Harcourt. The instrument she re

ferred to is a finely graduated circle, with telescopes for measuring

refractive indices, which she gave to me for my life time, leaving

the ultimate destination yet to be settled. I was not aware this

I Ihad been sent to you, and am not sure that it was. When was

at Nuneham shortly after Mr Harcourt's death, she expressed a

wish to give us each some instrument of his. She may have

mentioned the refractometer as for you (I cannot now recollect),
IIand may have suggested that you had an equivalent instrument

already, and that it might be very valuable to me as did not
Ifpossess one.
                she had thought of giving it to you she may have

recollected the intention and supposed it had been actually sent.

I could not suppose that she meant to offer to me an instrument

I Ishe had already given to you.
         am not sure whether mentioned that the Chances have

made an experiment on a silico-titanic glass. Hopkinson, Senior

Wrangler in 1871, who is their scientific adviser, had the

PREPARATION OF TITANIC OPTICAL GLASS             325

Isuperintendence of it. He sent me a specimen of the glass. got
Iit polished to look into, but it proved so bad did not go further.

However he got a prism made, and measured as well as he could

the refractive indices. Though the diffused image of a bright

line almost filled the field of view, his results with the two better

of the three angles, taken for a stripe of extra brightness in the

compound image, were unexpectedly concordant. It seemed as

if the glass lay (as to irrationality) between crown and light
flint, but much nearer to the latter than the former. This is
I Iwhat hoped and expected.
                                   borrowed the prism, and tried
Imy method of compensating prisms.
                                    made it much nearer to

crown, 0 = 10°, 0 being 0° for crown and 90° for flint* and 60°

I Ifor a prism have of light flint. Bad as the glass was, hardly
Ithink can be much wrong, for my results agreed well together.

However Hopkinson is going to remelt the glass.

     The glass was of a green colour, just such a tint as could be
produced by iron. He thought it must be due to titanium, as the

chemist who prepared the titanic acid thought he had at last,

I Iafter great difficulty, got it quite free from iron. (It was prepared
from titaniferous oxide of iron.)  said had never seen that

colour from titanium, whereas it was just the colour that iron
Iwould give.
              asked if an iron ladle had been used. He told me

not, but a copper one. He got the titanic acid tested at their
works, and it was pronounced free from iron. Meanwhile Liveing

had tested for me the glass itself, and found a small quantity of
Iiron in it.
              was still sceptical about the purity of the titanic
Iacid, and begged for a sample. This H. sent, and found it did
Icontain iron.  showed this to H, who happened to come to

Cambridge shortly after, and asked him as to the subsequent

process --whether the Ti02 had been fused with carbonate of
potash in excess. He said it had, with the addition of nitre to

keep up the oxidation, and that a black mass was obtained.
IWhence the blackness ?
                         asked for a sample, which he sent me.
I found it contained alkaline sulphides (as sulphurets are now-

Ia-days called) and sulphates, or rather a sulphide and sulphate.

On boiling with water got a green solution (while the greater

Ipart remained undissolved) with a peculiar spectrum of absorption.
  supposed this must be due to an inferior sulphide of titanium,

    * In Dr Hovestadt's treatise on Jena glass (§ 6) the disappointment of Prof. Stokes'
prevision is ascribed to the countervailing effect of phosphoric acid. See infra, p. 333.

326 CHEMICAL MANIPULATION OF TITANIC ACID

first casually mentioned in Gmelin as a black sulphide (protosul-

phide ?) in the course of the description of the known sulphide
TiS2. For according to Gmelin protosulphide of iron is not
soluble in excess of solution of a sulphide of a fixed alkali. But

I Ifound afterwards that it was iron, and obtained an intensely

deep green solution, shewing the peculiar spectrum by dropping

very dilute protosulphate of iron into a hot solution of sulphide of

Ipotassium. The black colour was therefore clearly due to proto
sulphide of iron. But whence came the sulphur?  suggested

from sulphate of potash as an impurity of the carbonate, which

possibly might have got released by substances obtained from the
fuel. But H. said the carbonate was specially pure. Sulphur

however got in in some way, for the skimmings of the glass

proved to be almost entirely sulphate of potash. H. wrote sug
Igesting the titanic acid. In the meantime
                                            had dipped a hot

borax bead into the acid, and lo it took fire where it was touched,

Iand on putting a portion into a closed tube distilled off a great

lot of sulphur. Evidently the chemist had employed the HS pro

Icess, and neglected to burn off the sulphur mixed with the Ti02.

  dare say it did not make much difference in the end result.

I IH. told me the process for separating iron was so troublesome,
that the Ti02 would cost 15/- a pound.  have believe effected

a material simplification. The HS process is all well enough for

Ithe laboratory, but is ill adapted for working with stones weight
of matter.  did not like the idea of the oxidation by zinc or

iron, as such a lot of hydrogen is given off that the reduction

Ieffected can be only a very small fraction of the equivalents of the

zinc or iron dissolved. So tried copper, through the mediation

of the sub-chloride, and this promises to succeed perfectly. The

mixture of TiO2 and Fe2Os is digested with hydrochloric acid and
metallic copper, with a little oxide or carbonate of copper thrown

in to start the reaction. The chloride of copper is reduced by the
Cu to Cu'Cl, and the acid solution of this deoxidizes and dissolves

the Fe202, forming protochloride of iron and chloride of copper,

and the chloride in turn is reduced to sub-chloride by the Cu, and
Iso the thing goes on.
                        have tried it on rouge, which dissolved
Iperfectly while was eating my dinner, even without heat, and
Iheat much quickens the process. Some tried before with simple

HCl remained for days or weeks mostly undissolved, while oil of

vitriol did not touch it at all.

           DIFFICULTIES WITH LARGE TELESCOPIC OBJECTIVES 327

                                                                                  5th January, 1875.

   IYou have presume heard from H. Grubb of the proposal

to erect a giant refractor of 39 in. aperture in California. He has
written to me respecting the consequence of a possible defect of
annealing, despairing apparently of getting such large disks per

fectly annealed, even if in other respects they could be prepared

satisfactorily.

   IYou told me of an object-glass that showed stars with tails (it

was not think focal lines), and on examining the object-glass

Ithere were found great defects of annealing, or else strain from

the glass being pinched in its cell, am not certain which.

    Would you kindly tell me which it was, and if it were want of
annealing, then (if you remember) what was the number of tails,

and was the depolarization enough not merely to restore the light
but to give one or two orders of colours ?

   If Itails were produced by want of annealing, that shows

think that the disk cooled differently in different directions round
the axis. Probably it may be difficult to prevent the cooling
being more rapid on the side next the door of the oven than in
other directions ; and if so it would seem to be advisable, in order

to render the defects of annealing that we must put up with as
harmless as may be, to have the bed of the disk capable of being
turned round its axis, by means of a rod passing to the outside of
the oven, so that the cooling might be symmetrical about the axis
of the disk.

      The mere addition of iron to HC1 and rouge makes the rouge

Idissolve much better than should have expected, and yet the

Fe202 does not seem to be reduced as it is by the Cu2Cl. There
is something curious about this action of nascent hydrogen.

It seems to be on the borders between ordinary chemical action

and electrolysis.

                                                                         Zlth January 1875.

    I will look at Savart's paper if I think of it and if I have

 time.

     A fluorescent eye-piece would not do because the rays are

rendered visible indirectly only, by their rendering the fluorescent
body self-luminous in their path. Whatever rays get through
the fluorescent body without being so spent have at emergence
the same properties they had at entrance. Hence it is essential

328 PLAN OF EXPERIMENT ON METALLIC REFLEXION

that the fluorescent body should be seen in focus, in order to be

used as a screen for exhibiting the ultra-violet spectrum.

Uran glass is not a good thing for the purpose, for the reason

that it is very tolerably transparent for a portion of the ultra

violet rays, and as it must be thin, to be nearly enough all in

focus for the eye-piece, it would be capable of showing only a

small fraction of the effect. It begins to be very opaque a little

beyond the end of the invisible point of the solar spectrum ; and

for the part of the spectrum beyond that, which we have in

electric light, it would answer well.           though      I don't  at

   I shall bear in mind the explosives report,
Ipresent know where could borrow it.

                                                14th Feb. 1876.

     1 have thought over the matter of reflection from metals, and

I am disposed to use polarized light, and fraction the light by

using Malus's law.
     First, to compare two metals at any angle of incidence not too

small.

Place the metal plates side by side, and adjust their planes to

parallelism, say they are vertical. Let the incident light, coming

horizontally, be polarized by a Nicol in a graduated circle.

Examine the reflected light by an analyzer composed
     1. Of a double-image prism of small separation, or better a

thick block of Iceland Spar, without any diaphragm, with its

principal plane vertical.
     2. Of a Savart plate, or something equivalent, with its

principal planes inclined at + 45° to the vertical. Exactness as

to this angle is of no moment.
     3. Of a Nicol placed so as to extinguish one of the images of

the Spar when the Savart plate is removed.

2 and 3 together constitute a Savart's polariscope.

The Spar will give two images of each plate, and near the

junction these will overlap. The overlap is the part of the field

to be used.

    Let A, B be the coefficients of reflection for the two metals

when the light is polarized in the plane of incidence, a, b ...

perpendicularly to  0 the azimuth of the plane of polarization

measured from the plane of incidence.

    Let 1 be the intensity of the primitively polarized light, M, N

           ADVANTAGES OF THE METHOD                     329

the two metals, and suppose the 0 of M overlaps the E of N.

The intensity of the first will be a sin2 0, and that of the second
will be B cos2 0. Turn the polarizer till the Savart bands dis
appear. Then these intensities will be equal, and we shall have

                                a sin2 0 = B cos2 0,

or B/a = tan2 0.

Turn the polarizer till the bands disappear again on the other side

of the plane of incidence. Then 20 will be the angle turned

through, which will therefore be known.

     Now let the metals exchange places, or else rotate the whole

analyzer through 180°, as may be more convenient. Then the 0

of N will overlap the E of M and we shall similarly get A/b.

     Lastly, remove one metal and move the other into the middle

and observe the overlap of the metal on itself. This will give just

as before A/a; so that we know the 3 ratios between the 4
coefficients A, B, a, b.
                                                        same
   ITo get the absolute values thought of this method.

    Mount the two metals M, N (or two plates of the

metal) with their planes parallel but opposite, so that after
two reflections the light is parallel to what it was. Then the

further edge of the nearer plate is the line of junction between
the part of the field where the light is direct and that where it is

twice reflected. These can be compared just as before, and

supposing the E of the twice-reflected to overlap the 0 of the
direct, we shall have AB = tan2 0.

    Knowing A : B and AB we have A and B, and thence a and b.

For telescope purposes however we only want to know the ratios.

   If the plates are vertical when opposite, the principal plane of

the rhomb in the analyzer must of course be horizontal instead of

vertical.

The Grubb instrument you gave me may be used for measuring
Ithe angle of incidence.
IfP.S.                    have a small circle for angles of position.

           it be preferred to see the lights to be compared side

by side, instead of superposing them and trusting to the evanescence

of Savart's bands or whatever else may be used, we have only to

hide the junction by a black slip of such breadth that the two
images of it just touch, or to use an equivalent diaphragm, and

proceed as before.

     By comparing in either of these ways two portions of the same

330 PRISM WITH CURVED FACE

light we are rid of the effect of possible fluctuations in the source
of light; and as we polarize the light in the first instance it is
immaterial whether the original source be partially polarized or
wholly unpolarized, and we may use lamplight, or the light of the
sky reflected by a looking glass, or the light of white paper in

Isunshine, at pleasure.

       see that the ratios A/a, B/b for the same metal may be much
more accurately determined in other ways, as for example by my

elliptic analyzer. I should polarize the incident light at an

arbitrarily chosen, measured azimuth, and determine the elements
of the elliptically polarized light reflected from the metal. This

would give A/a and the difference of phase.

                                        30«A October 1875.

I had intended to order my curved-faced prism with radii of
I8 feet and faces about 1| in. square.
                                        wrote to the Darkers, but

their long-radius pans had not been in use for a long time and
Iwere out of order.
                     then wrote to Ahrens a prism maker.
IHe had no pans for a radius larger than 4 feet. So thought
I Iwould reduce my scale. The 4 foot scale is smaller than

should contemplate for actual use, but on the other hand it would

bring out in stronger relief the difference between a curved-face

Iand plane-face prism ; and if there should be any hitch in the

method less money would be thrown away. So ordered a prism

with radii +4,-4, and + 3 feet, equilateral or nearly so. + refers

to convex, -- to concave. Supposing the prism in its position of

minimum deviation, the proper distance of slit from prism for the

-- 4 ft., + 4 ft. angle would be either about 8 or about 2 feet.

IThe larger would naturally be chosen ; had contemplated 16 ft.

I Iwith 8 ft. radius. The faces to be an inch or £ inch square.
The prism arrived this morning.  don't know when may get
Isunlight, but tried it on a soda-flame, comparing it with each

of two flat-faced prisms of flint glass of 60°, and without any

collimating lens, at the same distance of 8 feet from the slit.

     The double D was shown admirably, the edges of the com

ponents so sharp and free from false light. It very decidedly

Ibeat the flat prisms thus used (of course they are not meant to

be thus used); and with only a single prism of 60° never saw

the double D better, if so well, even with a collimator or else a

distant slit.

         ITS SPECTROSCOPIC MERITS TESTED                         331

A very small change in azimuth of the prism rendered the

image less distinct, the proper azimuth altering with the focusing

of the telescope. In this respect it resembles a very sharp
telescope, the focusing of which must be exact if the sharpness

is to be fully brought out.

   I feel little doubt that a spectroscope furnished with 3 or 4

of such prisms (only larger and with a longer radius) would
perform excellently. You know it is much easier to mark a

spherical surface true than a plane surface. Each prism should

be ground concave and convex, to a radius as large as can con

veniently be worked with precision. The slit, if used without

collimator, should be placed at the calculated distance (about
Ifdouble the radius).
                       a collimator be used, a telescope should

be focused on an object at the calculated distance, and then be

made to look into the collimator, and the slit of the collimator

shifted till it was seen in focus. The concave faces are all to be

turned towards the incident light.

   I shall be curious to examine the solar spectrum with the new
Iprism, but at this time of year may have to wait some time

for it.

                                                  Ut Nov. 1875.

I thought I would try again the prism, using a point of

homogeneous light instead of a slit as that would show better the
Inature of the image.
                       found that the fault of the plane prisms,
Ias had tried them before, lay in want of adjustment to make the

refraction in a plane perpendicular to the edge. When that was

attended to the plane-faced prisms answered quite as well as the

Iother, perhaps better, at any rate as well. The performance of the

two kinds is so nearly equal that cannot say at present that

either is better than the other. It seems as if the spherical was

less affected by a want of perpendicularity to the edge in the

direction of incidence.

   I I Ithought had best inform you at once that was mistaken

in supposing the spherical so superior.

   II should say that after had tried to-day with a point (a fine
Ineedle-hole) and so made out the ways of the image, tried the

slit for a comparison of the two kinds of prism.

332 TEST OF POWER OF SINGLE PRISM

                                                  2nd Nov. 1875.

I Ihad some sun this morning, and tried the curved prism

Iagainst a plane one, examining more particularly the components
of the double D.  cannot say which did best : once or twice

I Ithere seemed a shadow of a suspicion that the plane was best, but
really cannot say there was any difference.       tried yesterday

Ithe curved on bright D, putting the convex side towards the light,

which is the wrong way, and then got nothing but a broad

Iconfused yellow band.                to-day both with bright and
         noticed both yesterday and   are not quite alike, the more
dark D that the two components

refrangible being rather sharper and brighter, or blacker, as the

case may be ; indicating that the absorption is rather more
                                                  I had noticed,
determinate in the case of the more refrangible.
Ias is believe well known, that one is a good deal more easily
Ireversed than the other. Having forgotten which, tried again

the reversion by the outer parts of the plane itself as well as by

an accessory soda flame placed in front of the slit, i.e. between it
and the eye. In the former method, with a strong soda flame

Iand 3 or 4 prisms of different angles instead of one only, got a

Ifine hair-like dark line down the middle of the more refrangible
components, and none perceptibly in the other.    have seen it

down both, but my object to-day was to recall to my recollection

which came the more readily.

Both prisms (the curved and the single flat of 60°) showed

well the triple b, the components being sharp and clear as in
IFraunhofer's work, but could not split the 3rd component (as
Iin Kirchhoff's map, drawn from 3 prisms) with either.
                                                        must

try for a slit a couple of knitting needles tied together at the two
ends, and then separated in the middle by a bit of thin mica or a

fly's wing or something of the kind.

The behaviour of the flat and curved prisms when turned on a

point of homogeneous light (I used a soda flame and needle-point

prick) when put out of minimum deviation, out of focus &c. was

naturally very different ; but when out of minimum deviation and

focused for the primary focal line, both showed the components
of D well, and about equally well, separated. The distribution of

illumination up and down the line was however different in the
curved and flat prism : in the latter it was nearly uniform, in

APPARENT FAILURE OF TITANIC GLASS                               333

the former it showed like        or jj according to circumstances.

The two lines belong each to one component of the D.

     The angular distance of the components of 62 with a single
flint glass prism of 60° is only about 7".

                                                                                                    Ath Nov. 1875.

   II got your letter before I left Cambridge.

    As to a curved-faced prism, did not contemplate using it for

absolute measures, but only for viewing, or for the determination
of places with reference to known lines, which comes in fact to
interpolation. However it seems the defect which the curvature
was designed to correct is practically invisible even at so short a
distance of the slit as 8 feet, and the plane prism is at least as
good as the curved as to performance, though perhaps the curved
might be rather more easily made.

    I went to-day by invitation of Sir George Airy to the Guildhall

to see him admitted as freeman of the City of London.
     The award of the Medals is Copley -- Hofmann ; Royal --

Crookes and Oldham.

   I I IP.S. meant to imply, though see that did not express,
Ithat in the use contemplated a knowledge of the angle of the

curved prism was not required.

                                                 8th May 1875.

IOn returning from my lecture yesterday afternoon found a

prism which had come by post from Hopkinson ready cut and

Ipolished, and a letter in which he told me that the glass contained
about 7 per cent, of rutile.     immediately went back to the

IMuseum, where my compensating prisms were, and determined its
character as to irrationality, and after dinner  measured the

refractive indices for A, D, G.

The result appears to be conclusive that the introduction of

titanic acid into a silicic glass does not confer upon it the purple-

refracting quality which it confers upon a phosphatic glass. The

dispersive power is raised as it is in a phosphatic glass, but so far

from the purple-refracting character being elevated far more than

corresponds to the elevation of dispersion, as was the case with

the phosphatic glasses of Mr Harcourt, the change lies if anything

the other way, so that on every account the introduction of

titanium seems to be a positive disadvantage.

334 REFINEMENTS IN PRISMATIC ANALYSIS

   The experiment was I think well worth  trying, though nature's
                                          the hopes which were
answer seems now to be decisive against
entertained*.                                        6th Nov. 1875.

There is no difficulty either with a plane or curved prism in

making the primary focal line long enough to show the spectrum
of a star, by turning the prism a little from the position of

minimum deviation. It must not be turned far or the line will

be too long, and the light consequently too weak. Sir G. Airy

preferred this method for the star spectroscope at Greenwich,

instead of using as Huggins did a cylindrical lens. The curved

Iprism does not however find do well for this, for when the line

is short enough the illumination is far from uniform, being for

homogeneous light concentrated at the ends or middle according

to circumstances, whereas with a plane prism the line even when

short is pretty uniform in illumination.
I have not yet tried with the two kinds of prism an intensely
Inarrow slit.  see that with a very narrow slit a condensing lens

should be used to get the greatest illumination. With a moderately

narrow slit, for which you may regard light as consisting of rays

following the course assigned by geometrical optics, if the slit be

far enough off from the prism for the prism to be well filled with

the sunlight, you gain nothing by a condensing lens: it merely

widens the beam coming through the slit, which is already wide

enough and to spare by the time it gets to the prism. But if the

slit be so narrow that there is a large divergence due to diffraction,

the case is different....

   IWhen think of the primary focal line as formed by the light
Iof a star, of course suppose the light collected by an objective

into a focus tolerably near. The rays from an infinitely distant

point would of course form a parallel pencil after refraction at a
plane prism however placed, and after collection by a lens would
proceed towards a focal point, not focal lines.

                                                                                                  8th Nov. 1875.

   I tried a very narrow slit to-day--a pair of knitting-needles

separated by the wing of a house-fly, of which there were plenty
lying about dead. With both prisms at the same distance of

I8 feet from the slit (i.e. first one and then the other, not both

combined) saw a distinct difference between 62 and 6,, the latter

                                      * But see footnote supra, p. 325.

                     PERFORMANCE OF A SINGLE PRISM                     335

I Ihaving a resolvable look, and fancied occasionally saw it double.

As the components subtend an angle of only 7", and even when

magnified little more than       is 2',

                                                       if

                                                           I
                                        the separation approaches nearly to

the limit of what the human eye can do, however perfect the

image.

   If there was any difference between the flat and curved prisms

seemed to me to-day that the curved was anything the better.
it

            is
The performance of both, as seen with my highest available mag

nifying power (about 20)                so nearly perfect that cannot say

which best.

                                                      UtA Nov. 1875.

Thank you for the suggestions. As to the lenses, by applying

direct to a prism-maker whose address happened to get, got
                                                I             I

my prism, postage included, for 10/-; and as the lenses would have

to be of flint glass and therefore would have to be made express

they would hardly have cost less, and in what proves to be so

delicate a matter    I              more satisfactory to dispense with the
additional surfaces.   I it    Your suggestion of the deposited gold or
                           I is
silver very good, and have no doubt very nice slits as fine as
I
              is                                      tried the smoked
should want and finer could be thus made.          I
                                                       I
glass to-day, ruling with a needle.         Ia I  got good slits, but might

possibly want finer.           suspect should have added a dash or two
                                        II
of turpentine which should have been left to evaporate, or else           is a

little spirit with a very little shell lac. However can get slits

fine enough for can start with very fine one and make an
                  ;

image of this with a cylindrical lens which will do for anything.

However the direction in which                  am stopped at present

magnifying power. With my highest power (with my small

telescope, for which have got a lengthening piece for focusing
                     I

on a near object) which          b2 is  about 20, the performance of both

prisms            practically perfect.      had a good trial to-day, which
I
was one of uninterrupted sunshine.is              was just able to split  6,
                                        b)
(the third component of triple
                                           I
                                            and could see that the more

refrangible component of was the darker.           I  have got to go to

London to-morrow for a meeting of the Eton Governing Body,

and mean to get an adapting lens made to connect Mary's small

microscope with the small telescope so as to use the microscope as

an eye-piece. This will give a magnifying power of 60 or so

without having recourse to the high-power objectives, and then

perhaps a difference may be revealed in the performance of the

336 PROPERTIES OF FLUORESCEIN

two prisms. My impression to-day was rather in favour of the

curved one.

   I have been twice already to London this week, once for

E.G.B., and once for R.S. The first evening meeting of R.S. is
next week.

                                          nth ATov. 1875.

     This morning's post brought me a letter from Dr Stenhouse
enclosing a small quantity of " fluoresceïn," a substance discovered

by a chemist of the name of Baeyer, and formed by heating

together phthalic anhydride and resorcin. Its slightly alkaline

Isolution is about the most powerfully fluorescent solution know.

It shows an intense absorption-band near F, and the blue is

doubtless the most efficient part of the spectrum in producing

the fluorescence. Accordingly the fluorescence is very lively even

by candle light, by which quinine and a?sculin solutions show
Ilittle. The fluorescent light is green.
                                          have not yet had an

opportunity of examining it by the solar spectrum.

                                          20th Nov. 1875.

   II think should like to have the wooden stand. Supposing
I Ieven ultimately got a brick support might arrange it better

Ifrom having had some previous experience of the working.
         will copy into a memorandum book the curvatures of the

Iobjective, interchanging the first two as the flatter surface of the
curve should be towards the light.  don't know whether it was

a mere error of copying, or whether in the process of measurement

you reversed the glass and forgot you had done so. When Faris

Ishowed it to me 3 or 4 years ago found it had an enormous

negative spherical aberration (i.e. the opposite to a simple lens)
and wondered that Cauchaix would turn out a glass like that.

On thinking it over it occurred to me that the Crown might have
Ifbeen reversed.
                  the more curved face were foremost, reversing

it would increase its aberration which is positive, which was the

direction of the required correction. On mentioning to you at

breakfast the large aberration, you at once suggested that one of

the lenses had got reversed. On trying it the spherometer showed

that the front face was the more curved ; and when we reversed

the Crown, putting the flatter face in front, the telescope was all

right.


                               .- I ' liKKM'EIX
                          i !,., w.1.* ratl.^r iu fii\

                          . ..        I.- .     ': 

                                      . . ii..i i .... i

                                                               ;;

                                      . .. .: lelter from 1 :,

                                      - .. in," a subsrai.. .

                          . i ;.\. and foiu.. if

                          It-. i I..(. rcin.                       :

          ..              . i 1> rhiorosrei '

i.            -f! ' .  .  , . ,: i.,:;(.! near                 ,.     .

1 ,.! t' . li . in -'     . , ii t of the sp . :
     ".,ni . .  ..           v tin' fluurcwi i''

              . . ' !' ijinniiic ;u!- i ---ui :. >

. .. '                 e. i..r'il is  . ii. J have n-'

. ,....1      . : it by :h- -i;ir spectrin*,

    1 Hiiiu- I .should Hke to ha.e the wooden ~i
              ujiaiely got. a tu irk support I niigh'
even 1

from ha\ni'4 had .some previous experience of .

    I will copy into a n rmoranduin bonk ! e{}....

objective, iiiterehan^iiiir lin' first two as lhe Hal.- '

cur\e should bi '"Minis lhe li^lit. 1 don't know :
s.ia mere error ot .
                       -n - ..r whether in the proc-.->

you reverse i-ti'' gi . and forgot you had don.

showed it lo ;o. :5 or 4 years ago I found \'

negutire sph. iRai aberraiion (j.e. the opp^i1' > ·

and woiide-ed that C'aueh.iiv would turn oul a ..

On ihinking it over it occurred to me that the O

been reversed. If the more curved face were i--

 fwould increase ilx aberration which posit.', .

direction of the required correction. On ni
it                                    is

                                                           t'

breakfast the large aberration, you at oneo so. ,
the lenses had got reversed. On tryiug lh.
                                      . it      -,
that the front face was the more curved m.
the Crown, putting the flatter face iu iionl. .          :

right.

ClJnorrMM QAtvnyrutU' '^7i>vtsrt<x77i/.


                    RESOLVING POWER                                  337

    In the Fraunhofer form and in the Herschel form         the 4th
                                                            Cooke's
Isurface is convex, and Ross think made it convex too.
I believe are concave behind, Grubb's nearly flat.

IP.S. had a good try to-day with the prisms, but was terribly
Idodged by clouds.
                    have got my adapting-piece, and put on the

Ismall microscope as an eye-piece. Under this power the sharpness

of the telescope begins to break down, so that could discriminate

between the two prisms only as well as with the simple eye-piece

Iof highest power. With the curved prism in its best adjustment
   got an exquisite sharpness (as seen with the eye-piece) sur

passing, though not by much, what the flat prism gave.

   I am familiar with b triple like I 1 1 with single prisms, but

to get the third double like  with a single prism of flint glass

                                                               || |

requires great sharpness of definition and a very narrow slit.

                              The Royal Society, 6th Jan. 1876.

   I lunched with the Sabines to-day. They are quite as well as

usual. He has a niece as you know staying with him now, which

relieves Lady S. of a good deal. He asked after you as he always

does.

   I hope your paper (R.I.A.) will be in print in time to be in
Ithe hands of those who conduct the experiments.

        have been in communication with Captain Toynbee of the

Meteorological Office, who is going to issue instructions for captains

Ias to the observations of waves, especially long swells and rollers.
   should be very glad to know the periodic time of the heavy

rollers observed at Ascension and St Helena*.
I have lately perceived a consequence of the theory of waves
Iwhich  have not seen noticed --that the velocity of propagation

of roughness on deep water is only half the velocity of propagation

Iof the waves of which the roughness consists, and which suppose

to be rought, regular as to wave-length, like the waves of the sea.

The waves of a series gradually die away in front and get larger in
the rear, so that we must distinguish between the velocity of

propagation of a series of waves as a whole and that of the

          * See the correspondence in Vol. n. pp. 133-158.

s. b. I.                                                    22

338 PROPAGATION OF WAVE-GROUPS
individual waves. Thus a series like

              1 2 84

would change into

the same figures marking identical crests*.
      When the depth is not great compared with the length of the

waves, the two velocities --that of a series and that of the individual
waves --become more nearly equal.

     The known expression for the velocity of propagation of the

Icrests, may as well mention, is

\where is the wave-length and h the depth.
    In the extreme cases (1) of deep water (h/\ large) (2). ..shallow

...(\/h large) the velocity of propagation becomes (1) a/?-- and

(2) Vp.                     Athen,Sum Club, Pall Mall, S.W.

                                                           13th Jan. 1876.

Tyndall is to read a paper to-night at the R.S. in which I hear

he is to put a settler on biogenesis, by showing that when air is

simply allowed to stand still in an enclosure for 2 or 3 days till

it becomes optically pure by subsidence of the dust, there is no

generation of organisms in putrescible mixtures placed previously

within it and then opened.

                            Cambridge, 19th Feb. 1876.

     The same post which brought me your letter brought one
from Douglas Galton sounding me as to whether it would be
prudent to ask Dr Andrews to take the presidency of the British

Association at Glasgow this year.

     * Cf. letter from W. Froude of date Jan. 1873, printed in Vol. n. p. 157: also
note by Lord Rayleigh, Proc. Math. Soc. 1877, reprinted, Theory of Sound, Vol. i.
Appendix, where he mentions that the same explanation had occurred to him two

years previous.

PROJECTED EXPERIMENTS ON METALLIC REFLEXION 339

   I Idid not see him last summer, but believe he is very well ;
Ibut don't know how far the anxiety and work of preparation

might be good for him. He is hard at work reducing his last

4 years' work, on which he is to deliver the Bakerian Lecture on

April 27.

We should both much like to see Dr Andrews President if it

were not for his health, but query would it be prudent ?

   IYou need not return my letter; for though did not keep
I I Inotes do not need them, as am familiar with the ideas. don't

see my way to getting up to a normal incidence in any case other

Iwise than by interpolation, but think I could get nearer to it

with two reflections than with one, as the observer's head would

be out of the way.

   IMy little elliptic analyzer
I Iin the actual experiment.
                              reads to 6'.   have not yet tried it
                               should think  this is as close as

shall be able to observe to.

                                             1st March, 1876.

IThere is one other point which have marked in your paper,

and which will require on my part somewhat longer explanation,

Inamely the question of aerial tides (p. 430, old 28). But first

may as well explain that Newton's slip in the vortex problem was
...[as in Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. i. p. 103].

     But the hypothesis from which the result is deduced is not

very applicable to the considerable and irregular movements with

which we are concerned in eddies of wind.

   I come now to the more important matter of aerial tides.

As with water, so with air, the disturbing force of the moon would

tend to throw the air into the form of a spheroid of revolution

with its pole under the moon. The very imperfect equilibrium

theory would make the spheroid always prolate. But the

dynamical theory shows that it is prolate or oblate according to

circumstances. Laplace first showed that supposing the earth

covered with a uniformly deep ocean, there would be either high

water or low water under the moon, the which depending on
Ifwhether the depth lay within such or such limits.
                                                     the depth

exceed a certain critical value (H say) the tide is sure to be
direct, i.e. there will be high and not low water under the moon ;

but if the depth be less than H, and not too much less (for then

additional waves would come in), the tide at the equatorial regions

                                                     22 -- 2

340 DIRECT AND INVERSE TIDES

at least will be inverse. The critical depth H is such that if the

water were brought, by a disturbing force, into the form of a
spheroid of revolution, and then left to itself by the cessation of
the disturbing force, the periodic time of the natural swing (in
passing from prolate to oblate and back to prolate) would equal
the periodic time of the disturbing force.

     Similarly there is a critical height of the homogeneous

atmosphere such that if the actual height be greater than this

the atmospheric tide is sure to be direct.
     The nature of direct and inverse tides may be prettily illus

trated by considering the motion of a simple pendulum, acted on

by a small disturbing force. If 2ir/n be the period of a natural

swing, and 2ir/m the period of the disturbing force, the equation
of motion will be

(I suppose the disturbing force expressed by c sin mt + c" cos mt,
and the origin of t changed so as to get rid of the cosine).
integral of this equation is                                  The

               csinm*

               n2-m2                                          K>

omitting the part A sin nt + B cos nt which depends on the initial

circumstances, and would disappear by ever so small a friction in

the case of a motion going on indefinitely.

We see from (2) that when n > m, i.e. when the period of

natural swing is greater than the period of the force, the excursion

and the force are positive and negative together, and reach a

positive maximum together. When the pendulum is to the right

the force acts to the right, and when to the left the force acts to

the left ; and so the force prolongs the swing-time, and compels it
to be as great as its own period. But when n< m, or the pendulum

tends to change more slowly than the force, the pendulum's excur

sion is a + maximum when the force is a -- maximum and vice versd,

               is
                                                                                 it,
so that the force acts always towards the vertical instead of from

and quickens the changes that the pendulum goes through.

The first of these analogous to a direct tide, the second to
Ifan inverse.
               the height of the homogeneous atmosphere be

sufficient to make the natural swing-time of an aerial spheroid,

becoming alternately prolate and oblate, less than the period of

THE MOVEMENTS OF THE FLUID IN WAVE-MOTION                     341

the disturbing force, the tide will be direct, and there will be high

air under the moon.
    But whether the tide be direct or inverse --and this is the

important point -- the westward velocity will be a maximum at

high air and a minimum (or the eastward velocity will be a
maximum) at low air, and will be null at 3h, 9h, 15h, 21h, instead
of having its maximum (positive or negative) at 3h, 9h, 15h, 21h

and being null at 0h, 6h, 12h, 18h, that is of course supposing

the retardation insensible. It is a general character of wave

motion (I refer to a progressive wave motion, not a standing
oscillation) that the motion is forwards, or in the direction of

propagation, when the fluid is elevated, and backwards when it is

depressed. The phase in fact of horizontal velocity synchronizes

with that of vertical displacement.

    In deep water for instance, in the case of oscillatory progressive

waves like those of the sea, the particles move round and round

in circles, and a particle at the surface is moving horizontally

forwards (or in the direction of propagation) when it belongs to
the top of a crest, and horizontally backwards when it belongs

to the middle of a trough, and has no horizontal motion but is

moving up or down, when it is at its mean height.

For long waves propagated in shallow water, i.e. water which

is shallow compared with the length of the wave, the motion,

instead of being confined to the neighbourhood of the surface is

sensibly the same from top to bottom, and the vertical velocity is

insignificant compared with the horizontal.

    Thus in the figure [not reproduced] if the black curve denote

the wave at one moment, propagated from left to right, and the

red curve at a consecutive moment, volume has passed from left

to right of the section AB through the crest, and as the fluid is

sensibly at rest beyond the limits of the wave right and left, this
can only be by a horizontal transfer of the plane of particles AB.

Just so when the watery or aerial spheroid follows the moon

is,
                                           by
from east to west (the form, that follows the moon, not of course
the matter), supposing the tide direct the parts from the meridian

of the moon to 90° west are rising and those to 90° east are falling

as represented by the arrows in the figure.                   the
     The circles may represent sections of the earth and air

plane of the equator. The vertical velocities are of course

invisible compared with the horizontal.

342 EFFECT OF ATMOSPHERIC TIDES ON THE BAROMETER
     As the reductions have been made the result had best be

Igiven, but the introduction to it will require a little alteration.
   presume you have the proof to refer to.

                                                                                              5th March, 1876.

     Considering that the height of the atmosphere, supposed to
be throughout of the same density as at the Earth's surface,
would be about 5 miles, and that the friction on the Earth's
surface would operate in the first instance only on the lowest
strata, and that the tidal period (as to the chief term) is 12 lunar
hours, not apparently affording sufficient time for the retarda
tion of the lowest strata to be propagated by means of successions

Iof eddies, to any great heights, should suppose that the effect

of the retardation on the aerial tide as a whole would be very
small, and therefore that any barometric variations referable to

aerial tides would be little affected by retardation. It might be

LAGGING DUE TO FRICTION AND OTHER CAUSES                     343

different as regards effects on the anemometer, for here we have

to deal with just the lowest stratum in which the friction takes

most effect. The tidal current would however be gentle, and

the friction therefore small compared with that which we have to
Ideal with as regards ordinary winds.
                                       dare not conjecture how

far friction might be sensible in its effect on tidal winds observed

at the surface of the earth.

As to tidal waves in water, it is only in the case of a regularly

progressive wave propagated in an ocean, or along a channel of

which the depth may be treated as uniform, that the proposition

holds good that the phase of maximum height synchronizes with
Ifthe phase of maximum horizontal velocity.
                                             the wave be propa

gated up a uniform gulf, uniformly deep, and barred at the end,

there will be perfect reflection at the end ; the disturbance in

the gulf will be what Airy calls a stationary oscillation, and the

maximum of horizontal velocity will be at half tide.

Again, take the case of a uniformly broad and deep channel,

with short barred (I mean stopped at the end, not with bars at
their mouths) side channels opening into  it,
                                                                          is
                                             the channels being

short enough to allow us to disregard the difference of height

of the water in any one of them at the mouth and end. It

clear that at the mouths and for some distance up the side

channels there would be currents up and down them, out of and

into the main channel, and these currents would be greatest

about half tide, when the level of water at the mouth would be

changing most rapidly. About the middle of the main channel

the horizontal velocity would be along its axis, and would be

greatest forwards at high water and backwards at low water.

similar difference in the phase of the currents near shore,
A

                              is

                                  is it

                                                      aI
from what we have in the open sea, would be produced by the

shoaling of the water towards the coast. To take the case most

unfavourable to variations of phase of tidal currents, will suppose

that at a distance from land tends to be propagated in a direction

on the whole parallel to the coast  As the tide-wave travels

more slowly in the shallower water towards the coast than in the

deep water, these curves, loci of similar phase, bend bit towards

the shore. When the tide      rising the water flows towards the

land as well as across the channel, and as regards the former

component the sea  in the condition of a gulf as already ex

plained. Hence on the whole the phase of the velocity as com

344 TRANSITION FROM STATIC TO KINETIC FRICTION

pared with the phase of the height is not the same as out at
sea. Moreover the currents in the shallow water are much

stronger than in the deep water away from the coast, where too,

even if they had been equally strong, they would escape notice,

as we have no such accurate means of determining a ship's position
as we have close to land. Hence the tidal currents which alone

attract the attention of sea-faring men are just those which don't
follow the law of being a maximum in the positive or negative
direction at high or low water.

     But the atmosphere must be assimilated to an ocean covering

Ithe whole earth and of uniform depth approximately, and this is

just a case in which the law mentioned would be obeyed, save
as to the effect of friction.

                                                              Uth Dec. 1876.

It has probably occurred to you that the increase of friction

-7- pressure obtained when the velocity is small may have been due in

part to the use of cloth. At the same time we know that the statical
f/p is greater than the f/p when the surfaces are relatively

moving, which last is commonly assumed to be independent of

the velocity ; and it is not likely that the law connecting f/p

with the velocity, say f/p = (v), should be a discontinuous one,
                                       v
giving <f>(v) = so long as                        finite, but (v) = greater than<j>c',c' c c,
      v                                   is
              0.
                                               <j>
                       c
when =                  Rather  c' it  would seem probable that <f)(v) would

change rapidly from for = to quantity sensibly equal to
                                       v             a
                                              0

when  v  was anything beyond some moderate value.... It would

seem probable that the range within which <f>(v) changes from

to a quantity sensibly equal to would be the smaller, the harder
                                                  c

Ifbe the softer of the two materials pressed together.             so, would
                                                                   it

require lower range of velocities to detect the variation of (v)
      a                                                                       <f>

with metal against metal than with cloth against metal, which                  I

would account for the variation not having been, so far as

am aware, detected in experiment.

I     have been in correspondence with Dr Andrews on the

subject of the elastic yielding of the internal volume of capillary

tubes, and the correction to be made for it*.

                          * See letter in Vol. n. pp. 126-9.

           LIMITATIONS TO USE OF DIVERGENT SERIES                   345

                                                   19 Dec. 1876.

I have long been puzzled why Siemens's bathymeter should
Ishow no apparent variation of gravity with latitude.
                                                                    am

disposed to think it must be due to the variation, with lati

tude, of the vertical component of the earth's magnetic force.

In going south this would diminish ; the vertical steel tube

would be less magnetic by induction, and would less attract the

flexible steel bottom. The result on the reading would be the

same as if gravity increased and might therefore mask the actual

decrease.

When a series like                                 12th May, 1877.

                        V=a + bv + cv2+ ...

is fairly convergent within the limits of v we have to deal with,
its leading terms form a natural approximation to the function
we are concerned with. But when it is divergent, and we merely

know V numerically for a certain number of values of v, it seems

to me that its leading terms have no special claim to considera

tion as furnishing a mode of expressing the function.

   I am aware of course that a function f(x) may sometimes be

calculated numerically from a divergent series such as

                       a -- bx + ex2 -- da? + ...

even though we know neither the form of f(x) nor the law of the
coefficients, but only their numerical values. One way  is,  either

from the beginning, or after certain number of terms, to trans
                              a
form the series by the formula           +

if   But the coefficients are unknown, and we know nothing but
    if
the numerical value of f(x) for a certain number of values of x,
           a
and we assume
                   it
                       f(x) = A+Bx Cx>+...

and, taking limited number n of the terms, we determine the

constants A, B, C.by n given values of f(x) corresponding to
n values of x [or may be by N values of f(x), (N>n), for as
many of x, the N equations with only n unknown quantities

A, B... being reduced to n equations by the method of least
squares or otherwise] don't see that the resulting values of A,
                       I

346 UNCERTAINTIES OF EXTRAPOLATION

B. . . have any special relation to a, -- b, .. ., nor that the values of A,

B... might not be materially changed by including another term;
Itaking for instance A+Bx+Ca? + Da? instead of A + Bx + Ca?
only.  was beginning to try a numerical experiment, taking a

function f(x) such as V(l +#), or (1 + xf, regarding it as unknown,
save as to its numerical value for certain values of x mostly

greater than 1, taking a limited number of terms of the series

              A+Bx+Gx1...

determining the constants by the given values of f(x), and seeing

how they would come compared with the coefficients in the

expansion by the Binomial, and whether they would approach

Ia limit as a greater and greater number of terms was taken, but

  found it would cost more work than the thing was worth.

   I can well imagine that if a, b, c, d, e were got by least

squares from  V=a + bv + ctr' + d^ + ev*

                                          (a)

by reducing say 20 observations, the results might be worse for

the set of observations as a whole, i.e. including those not included

in the 20 reduced, than if you had taken the simpler formula

              V=a + bv                    (/3)

and had determined a, b by least squares from the same 20 obser
vations as before. But it seems to me that the sum of the

squares of the errors for the 20 reduced alone must be less with

(a) than with (jS) from the very nature of the process. When
therefore you speak of the result by (j9) being better than by

I(a) you mean presume for the whole series, not the 20 reduced

alone; though even for these the errors of formula (/S) would

Iprobably be more capricious than those of (a).
        have been engaged in sundry calculations of late relative to
the great telescope Grubb * is making for the Austrian Govern-

     * In a recent letter from Sir Howard Grubb, F.R.S., to the Editor, in reply to

an inquiry on this subject, he refers to Prof. Stokes' zeal and activity in these
matters in the following terms :

    I"After such a long lapse of time am afraid that any letters of Prof. Stokes'
I could get together would be of very little use, as many I fear have been lost

amongst the mass of correspondence which accumulated in so many years ; they
are for the most part disconnected and disjointed, he having written in his spare
moments, sometimes in railway trains, sometimes at the Royal Society, and some
times at home, and it would be very difficult indeed to find anything that would be
really useful for publication. He was wonderfully painstaking in answering any

Iqueries, so much so that sometimes hesitated to ask him even a simple question,

DESIGN OF LARGE OBJECTIVE  347

ment. He had intended at first to make the crown equi-convex,
but he began work with the 4th surface, making it flat. When
the dispersion of the two glasses was satisfactorily determined,

it appeared that the form required for this, if spherical and

chromatic aberration were both to be destroyed, using spherical
surfaces, gave the 4th surface, or 2nd of the flint, decidedly

concave, and if the 4th surface were to be flat, the crown should

be decidedly flatter in front than in rear. Probably he could
have mastered the over-correction of spherical aberration for
crown equi-convex and flint concavo-plane by the form of the
surface ; but as the theoretical form of no aberration for the flint

concavo-plane brought out the second and third surfaces of the
combination severally fitting, it involved a far smaller departure
from the theoretical form to make the curvatures of the 2nd and

3rd surfaces the same than of the 1st and 2nd, and this would

equally well save the construction of an additional pair of tools;
and the minute over-correction of spherical aberration in this
form is no more than can be easily mastered. So this form is now

fixed on.

                                  Athenaeum Club, Pall Mall, S.W.

                                                                                            29th March, 1878.

   If an anemometer, held by a spring, were moved backwards and

forwards in a large room, the general effect it seems to me must

be this.

     Behind each cup, especially that the concave side of which
faces the wind, there will be a tail of eddies, the disturbance

corresponding to which will quickly spread over a space much
broader than the cups, partly from lateral adhesion of air to air,
partly from the interlacing of eddies and quiescent portions of the
air. The eddying portions however will be possessed, not merely
of a rotation, opposite in direction behind the two edges of
the cup, but with a progressive motion. When they spread
out and coalesce the rotatory motions will in great measure
destroy one another, but the progressive motions will remain, and
in the wake there will be a wind in the direction in which the

anemometer is moved. To a minor extent there will be a wind

fearing it would encroach upon his time, for he went so deeply and minutely into

Ievery aspect of the question that in some cases had as many as 5 postcards or

letters from him in 24 hours, each describing some new view of the particular

Isubject had enquired about."

348 RESULTS DUE TO EDDIES FROM SHARP EDGES

also in front, from the push, but the chief wind will be in the
rear. In its return course, the anemometer will at first and for

some way encounter this wind, so that on the whole the anemo

meter will experience more resistance than if it were moved

continuously forward in still air with the same mean velocity.

That there must be a considerable wind produced is shewn

by a simple consideration. Except near the turning points the

whole momentum of the force which impels the anemometer
horizontally, since none of it is expended in generating motion

in the anemometer which by supposition has reached its normal

velocity of transport, must be expended in producing momen

tum in the air or must be balanced by an opposite pressure.

It is in fact partly one and partly the other. The pressure

produces velocity in the air, and this in turn occasions increase of

pressure on the opposite wall and lateral friction from the side
walls. But these are produced mainly by the motion of the

air, so that the forward motion of the air is anything but

insignificant.

                                                             Cambridge, 27 Nov. 1878.

It is near 12 now, so I will not promise to finish this to-night.
I will ask Maxwell if he knows of any measures taken of the

resistance in the Voltaic Arc.

   If we knew the resistance at the break, and also the intensity

of the current, we could, as you remark, measure the heat generated
Ithere.
         am not sure, however, whether it has occurred to you
Ithat this would by no means vary as the light produced.
                                                                mean

that for equal amounts of heat generated there might, under

different circumstances, be very various amounts of light. For

a given total amount of radiant energy the amount of light

corresponding would depend immensely upon the mode of partition
of that energy among radiations of different refrangibilities.

Nov. 28. Thus imagine a voltaic circuit with plates so large

and wires leading up to terminals so thick, that the resistance in

that part of the circuit may be deemed to be null, and let the

circuit be completed, in one by a short very thin wire, in another

by a thicker and longer wire of the same resistance. In the former
case the wire is rendered it may be white hot, in the latter barely
red, or not red at all. Yet the total heat which is generated

per second in the wire is the same in both cases, and when a
permanent state is attained the loss per second by radiation -- for

             MATERIALS FOR INCANDESCENT MANTLES  349

Isimplicity  will suppose that there is no conduction away--

is the same in the two cases. While, however, the total energy
of radiation is the same, the distribution of this energy among the

different refrangibilities is very different. Passing now to the

case of the voltaic arc, we see that the amount of light for a given

current and given resistance is not necessarily the same under all
circumstances. These no doubt are important elements to know,

but we must have photometric as well as electric measurements.

IThis no doubt you contemplated in your letter. Still thought

it might not be altogether superfluous to point out how widely

the ratio of the light might possibly differ from the ratio of the

heat in two different cases.

There is another consideration affecting the yield of light for

a given supply of heat. We ought to choose for poles a substance

which is as far as possible black for light and white for heat.

For we want to avoid as far as possible loss --for our immediate

object -- of radiant energy in the form of invisible heat, and to

have it in the form of more refrangible radiations. Hence,

according to the doctrine of the reciprocity of radiation and
absorption, a substance which is white for light, but black -- i.e.

freely absorbing -- for heat would be a bad one to choose for poles,
but one which was black for light but white, that is freely reflect

ing, for heat, would be a good one. Probably carbon fulfils these

conditions as well as any substance we are likely to get*, for
Melloni found that it is translucent for heat rays of low re-

frangibility.

   I Ihope you think was right in recommending Mrs Sanderson

Inot to sell out her gas shares during the panic, as she was on the
point of doing.  think we are still far from gas being superseded

by the electric light for general purposes, though it is likely

Ienough it may be used for public buildings and purposes of that
kind.  said I thought the shares would rise again after an

interval sufficient to allow the panic to subside, though they
might not get up to what they had been ; that then it might be

prudent to sell out a good portion of them in order to divide

her risks.

    I am afraid Adams is not so well, for Dr Latham went out

last night for the third time, and then brought Dr Paget with

     * The modern use of the rare earths to secure these conditions is well
known.

350 SKIN-BURN FROM ELECTRIC ARC LIGHT

Ihim. However       hope to get more recent intelligence before
I close this.
I4.40 p.m.
              have just returned from the observatory. The

account is that Adams is not any better, but neither is he worse.

Both doctors were out this morning, and they are going again at

6.30. They do not expect any important change before Monday
or thereabouts. His case is evidently a serious one, but we may

hope for a favourable issue.      Yours affectionately,

                                                                 G. G. STOKES.

IP.S.        was near forgetting to answer about the voltaic arc

seen against the sun. Foucault made some experiments about
and arrived at the conclusion that the arc -- or was the poles --
I
         I

                                    I

                                                                               is

                                                                    it

                                                                                                                                                             ?

                                                                                                            it,
was think one-third or two-thirds, forget which, as bright
              must refer to his paper. It
as the sun.                                                      pretty sure to

be No. 19, " Annates de Chimie," Tome 58, year of publication,

1860, pp. 476--478.

                                                                 15 Feb. 1879.

On Wednesday went to the South Kensington Museum, and
              I
                  I

                                    it,
                                                              a
saw Lockyer.  found him in his Laboratory with one ear, and

the part of the neck near as red as turkey cock. He told me

that on Monday he had been working with the electric arc given

by a powerful Siemens' machine. Knowing the injurious effect

of the light upon the eyes, he took care not to look at          it,        so he
                                                                   it
                                                                       it,
stood with his back to the light about feet off. Yet affected
                                  2

the skin of the back of his neck which was exposed to producing

something like erysipelas. He said that the day before the skin

had been black, and that wanting to write something he was

obliged to dictate  it,  as the inflammation had extended to his

eyes. His assistants were also affected, but not to such an

extent.

        mentioned the thing to Siemens afterwards,               and he said yes,

that blistered the skin.                                         In furnace work

    It cannot should think be the mere heat.
I

   it

          I

or in metal smelting one would often be exposed to more severe
heat in fact, the sensation of heat seemed to have attracted no
;
              should think        must have been the action of the
     I
attention.                    it

rays of high refrangibility in which that light so much abounds.
The light seems far to surpass sunlight in its tanning power on

the skin.

                       BAD DESIGN OF GUNS                     351

II forget whether asked you how many copies of your paper

on the Anemometer you would like to have. 50 are sent in any
case, and up to 100 will be supplied without cost ; beyond that

the paper and printing off are charged up to the limit for author's

copies, which is an additional 150, making 250 with those supplied
without charge. Would you kindly tell me that we may order

the corresponding number of copies of the plates ? It will take a

week or 10 days before the proofs of the plates are ready to

go out.

    I send you the number of the Graphic containing the drawings

Iof the Thunderer's gun after the explosion.  The section seems to
                                              do not like depending
show great want of longitudinal strength.

upon the combined pull of two pieces which are separated by a

widish interval. The material is so nearly rigid that it is a chance

whether the two pieces pull together, or whether a great part

of the strain is not thrown upon one, when if that goes the whole

will fall upon  the other, and so the resistance is overcome in
detail. Again,
reckoning from  as regards the portion of the second piece --
                the muzzle end -- on which the strength depends,

we have another instance of indeterminateness, that is, the strain

might fall wholly on the one or wholly on the other of the two

projections at the end if the material were absolutely rigid. And
if the bearing were chiefly on one of these projections, as it

appears from the form of the fracture to have been on the inner

one, there would be a longitudinal strain at one side which would

be added to the general longitudinal strain, and would tend to

start a crack in the metal, which once commenced could hardly

fail to be continued.

                                              8 March, 1879.

     With reference to something that you said in a former letter,

I must quote a short passage which 1 have seen quoted in a book

that has been sent me entitled The Supernatural in Nature.

The quotation   is from    a work of   Huxley's entitled     Scientific
Education. He    says, "              one lament that     the bench
                          And I for

of Bishops cannot show a man of the calibre of Butler of the

Analogy, who, if he were alive, would make short work of the
current a priori infidelity."

   I have never been able to make out what Huxley's religious

views are.

352 NATURE OF ELECTRIC DISCHARGE

                                                                                        15 March, 1879.

I am afraid we are a good way off from being able to explain

the fluorogenic or non-fluorogenic characters of gases as depending

on their chemical characters. I recollect your telling me that you

had found nitrogen eminently fluorogenic, and hydrogen the
reverse. As to the chemical classification of the two, there is no

doubt that hydrogen ranks as a gaseous metal. It seems that

chemists are disposed to rank nitrogen with phosphorus and

arsenic. Though phosphoretted hydrogen, the analogue of am

monia, does not like it act as a base--or rather as a base minus
water, the analogue of an actual base being oxide of ammonium--
yet when the hydrogen in phosphoretted hydrogen is replaced by

ethyl, we get Hofmann's triethyl phosphine, which in its properties

is perfectly analogous to ammonia.

The metals are capable under certain circumstances of giving

out rays of very high refrangibility. Thus the long spectrum of
electric light, such as it is given by the discharge of an induction

coil with a jar in connexion in the secondary circuit, consists

mainly of pairs of dots representing the tips of the electrodes, and

depending upon the nature of the metals employed for electrodes.

We may perhaps give some sort of an explanation of the

greater brightness of the positive electrode when the arc is passed

between carbon electrodes.

   If we compare the negative and positive discharges in a

moderately exhausted tube, the positive discharge seems to take

place from a mere point, the negative gives a glow extending

over a very sensible portion of the surface. The total generation

of heat is found to be greater at the negative ; but the portion of

matter in which this heat is in the first instance concentrated may

be greater at the positive, on account of the greater constriction
of the path of the discharge. This greater concentration may

Imore than make up for the smaller quantity, and so the light may
be more intense.  do not think that combustion in the strict

sense of the word has anything to do with it. The result is much

the same in vacuo, or in an inert gas.

   IWe can give no reason think in the present state of our

knowledge why there should be the observed difference in length

of spark between a point and a disk according as the point or the
Idisk is positive. Indeed don't think we have yet got the ap
Ipropriate idea of what a discharge of electricity means.
                                                           said

                 RECENT ADVANCES IN ULTIMATE PHYSICS      353

Ionce to Faraday, as sat beside him at a British Association
Idinner, that thought a great step would be made when we should

be able to say of electricity that which we say of light in saying
that it consists of undulations. He said to me he thought we

were a long way off that yet.

   IFor enlarging our conceptions of the ultimate working of

matter, know of nothing like what Crookes has been doing for

some years. I wish you could see some of the work in his

Ilaboratory.     have got to be in London, from Tuesday to
     Next week

Saturday inclusive, for the meetings of the Cambridge University

Commission.
IP.S.
                 saw Lockyer on Friday, and found he had not yet got

quite over the tenderness of eyes arising from the action of the

radiation from the arc of a Siemens' machine on the skin of his

neck.

                                                                                               17 March, 1879.

   I am not aware of any large quartz lens that is employed in

a telescope, except that at the Dunsink Observatory. If the

telescope is to be employed as an achromatic, it is not easy to see

what the second lens could be made of consistently with retaining

the transparency of the quartz for the invisible rays of high

Irefrangibility. The powerful double refraction of Iceland spar
puts it out of the question.  know of no other crystal which
Icould be obtained in sufficient size, unless possibly Beryl.
                                                               do

not know whether it is transparent for the rays of highest

refrangibility among those that are found in the radiation from

the sun. But after all it is only in the case of observations with

the spectrum that such transparency is required, and it is not as

a rule for spectral observations that very large apertures are

required.

   I am glad that Howard Grubb has determined to give a fair

trial to the method of testing the objective, using the existing

Idisks, with homogeneous light, correcting the spherical aberration
by adjusting the separation between the lenses.  really think it

will give an almost certain prediction as to what would be the
                                            The result I think
ifperformance of the telescope,  finished.

would be, either to lead to the non-rejection of a grand disk on

account of a fault which it shows, and which is only visible

under a very critical mode of observation, or else to show that the

       s. b. i.                                       23

354 HYDRAULIC AND ELECTROMAGNETIC BRAKES

disk would not answer, and so save the time and expense and
trouble of finishing it in the hopes that it might turn out well

notwithstanding that defect.

                                                                                        24 March, 1879.

I Ido not recollect that mentioned to you a very pretty

hydraulic brake of Froude's invention which he showed me.

It consists of two pieces, one fixed, the other, which is similar

to the former, moveable. Each of these resembles a good deal
a nautilus shell cut in two by a plane parallel to its plane of

symmetry. The moveable one revolves round an axis perpendicu
lar to the plane of section -- in the shell-fish illustration -- and the

hollow interior is filled with water. The partitions, however,

instead of being as in the nautilus perpendicular to the plane

of section, are strongly inclined to it. Also their traces on the

I Iplane of section, instead of being radial, are considerably inclined
to the radius.  think, but of this point do not feel sure, that

the inclinations of the traces in the two halves are the same way

Iwhen viewed successively from the inside, and consequently
opposite ways in situ as they face each other.  believe the

relative motion resembles that of the two blades of a pair of

scissors, only you must think of the blades as coming together

only at the very edges, their planes being inclined to the common

plane of the blades in scissors.

This brake is intended to measure the power of marine steam

engines. Former brakes failed for this purpose because the power
was so tremendous that the friction it produced when an attempt
was made to curb it by friction was such as very quickly to make

iron red hot. There was great tendency with such powerful forces

to split the thing in two by pushing out one of the half nautilus

shells ; but this was very ingeniously and simply obviated by

making the instrument double ; the moveable part consisted of a

Ipair of shells, mean semi-shells, placed back to back, that
                a
                                                                                               is,
with the outsides against each other, and the fellows to each were

fixtures. Thus the pressures against the two moveable semi-shells

simply balanced each other and produced no strain on the machine,

and the strain on the fixed semi-shells did not signify, since the

fixed parts could without difficulty be made as strong as might be

required. In such brake the resistance would of course vary as

the square of the velocity.

    It occurred to me that possibly a sort of electromagnetic brake

        CROOKES' INVESTIGATIONS ON CATHODE RAYS  355

might be used in experiments of the kind yon are engaged in.

Suppose the revolving shaft carried an armature capable of being

made an electro-magnet, and that opposite to it were the poles
Iof a powerful horse-shoe magnet.
                                     suppose the current passing

through the armature to be so arranged that each time a pole was

Ipassed the current was reversed. There would, however, fear be

difficulty in getting up sufficient brake power this way unless the

revolving piece acted by a cog-wheel and pinion on another piece,

and this latter carried the armature, which would complicate the

arrangement. The magnetizing current might pass round a coarse

galvanometer, through a small adjustable resistance, and by means

of the resistance the current might be adjusted to a constant

strength as measured by the galvanometer.

    It is just post- time now.

                                                                               6 April, 1879.

   I IWhen wrote last had not time to mention what struck me

as a very curious phenomenon that Crookes mentioned when he

read a paper --last Thursday week -- before the Royal Society.
     He was examining the phosphorescent effects produced by

what comes from the negative in a tube so highly exhausted that

the dark space ordinarily seen around the negative extends over

the whole tube. One tube had about a tea-spoonful of rubies
in it. His assistant had the tube in his hand after the experiment
was over, and happening to incline it so that the rubies came in

contact with an electrode of the tube which he was touching,

or else touching the tube-electrode --I am not sure which, but
I think the former -- he received so smart a shock that he was
near letting the tube fall. It struck me as exceedingly curious

that so small an extent of matter as the rubies presented should

be capable of getting so highly charged as to give a rather severe

shock.

Crookes has really opened out quite a new field of research

in these recent experiments of his.

                                                                                 31 May, 1879.

I have just heard from Grubb, who tells me that he finds that

when the less curved face of the crown is placed first, which was

the position we contemplated in the actual objective, the spherical

and chromatic aberrations are so nearly corrected together when

the lenses are separated 4-5 inches that he can dispense with soda
light in the testing, which he is glad of as he is a little afraid to

                                     23--2

356 COMPARISON OF ANEMOMETERS

work with those costly disks at night in the dark. He says, " the
definition with a power of 350 is by no means bad, and rather
surprises me."

   I Idare say he may have written to you direct, but thought
I might make sure of your knowing this encouraging result.
I I gave my last lecture to-day. In addition to my lectures

   have had several things claiming my attention which would not

bear being put off, which is the reason why I have been obliged

Ito postpone the full consideration of your anemometer letter, as

   saw it required thought.

The Vicarage, Petham, Canterbury,

                                                                        2nd August, 1879.

   I came here to-day from Cambridge to see the family of my
late brother. I am to return to London on Tuesday, staying there

the night for a meeting next morning at the South Kensington
Museum, and mean to return to Cambridge in the afternoon.

   I have been very busy of late with one thing or another,
Iwhich is the reason why have not gone more fully into the

anemometer question.
     What you said in your last as to the difference of the results

regarding the comparison of the 24 inch and 12 inch, according
as the whirling machine or actual wind was used, leads me to
suggest that it would be very desirable to try the 24 inch against
the Kew standard when the former was loaded in such a manner

as to increase considerably the moment of inertia, placing flat

horizontal masses near the cups; flat, laid horizontally, in order

to avoid sensibly altering the resistance ; near the cups in order

Ifto get up moment of inertia with as little increase of weight (and
thereby friction) as may be.  the wind were perfectly uniform

(and that is a condition nearly satisfied in the whirling experi

ments, but not in natural wind, except perhaps on rare occasions)

moment of inertia by itself alone would of course make no

difference, but with a variable wind it would make a difference.

The conditions of the 12 inch and 24 inch must be very different

as regards moment of inertia ; and by comparing two 24 inch ones
differing as nearly as may be only as regards moment of inertia,

we should be able to form an estimate how far this influences

a comparison made in natural wind, subject as it is to continual
variations ; and we should thus be able to judge whether the

DIALYTIC DESIGN FOR LARGE TELESCOPE  357

natural difference in this respect between the 24 inch and the
12 inch would be likely to influence materially the result of a

Icomparison made in natural wind.
         have been working strenuously the last day or two at the
data for Grubb's new crown glass disk. He told me it appeared
to be extremely good glass, though the disk was rather thinner
than he would like, on which account he thought of slightly
lengthening the focal length of the combination. Ten days ago or
more he sent me the deviations for this disk and for a prism
supposed to represent the flint glass disk which Feil is making.

He said, as far as he had examined, the indices appeared to agree
very nearly with the former, so that he should be able to proceed
with confidence. This statement led me to attach no great idea

of urgency to the matter, and I did not at once take it up. But
Iwhen came to calculate out the indices I found that, though

there was not much difference of refraction in the crown from the
last crown, the dispersion was about 15 per cent, greater than in
the second crown ; about 8 per cent, greater than in the first. This
is most serious, for considerably deeper curves would be required,
which the disk is not thick enough to bear. No great increase
of focal length could be permitted, as all the mountings have been
prepared for a f. l. of 32 feet or thereabouts. The only possible

I Iremedy can think of is one of so bold a character that hardly

think he would venture on it. It is to reconcile easement of the

curves of the crown with retention of the intended f. l. of the

combination by separating considerably the two lenses, making
the telescope in fact somewhat dialytic in character. Deeper
curves would in this way be required for the flint ; but the flint

in course of preparation by Feil is not I suppose yet moulded,

and the aperture might be a little less than that of the crown,
and the material thus economised could be utilised for increase

of thickness to bear the deeper curves.

                                                                  Cambridge, 8 August, 1879.

   I find on calculation that if a telescope is to be made with

crown and flint glasses of given quality, and if the power of the

Icrown glass lens is also given, then the telescope is lengthened by

being made of the dialytic form, not shortened as had supposed
at the first blush. So that this plan is not feasible.

    It must be very vexatious to Grubb to meet with so many

358 PERMISSIBLE DEFECTS IN OBJECTIVES

disappointments.             I have rather urged him to think of the

existing disks, which have performed so well under trial, not

showing any perceptible defect when the telescope is used in

its natural way, though when we play tricks with it by throwing

the pencil out of focus altogether, the glass is seen to be not

absolutely perfect. At any rate he might offer to the Austrian

authorities to let them have the telescope provisionally until

better disks could be obtained. According to the contract the

Austrians are to take and pay for the mounting if the failure

should be the impossibility of getting suitable disks. But the

mounting would not be of much use to them without the objective,

and it would be for their interest to come to some arrangement

by which they would have an objective to go on with, which,

though not all that could be wished for in point of homogeneity,

yet does its work very well, and in point of size is quite unique.

                                                  14 Jan., 1880.

I am glad to see that you are able to take such an interest
Iin scientific matters.
                             got your letter about the refraction

question to-day.

   I have thought over the method of using a diffraction grating,

and compared it with methods of refraction. I have made some
rough calculations, but I have not gone fully into as have my
                                               if

                                                   a

                                                       it,

                                                        I
Smith's Prize Paper impending.

    It seems to me that of the two the refraction method gives

rather larger quantity to measure, especially     new modification
a
                         a

                         it
which occurred to me in thinking over the subject were made.

The diffraction method has one theoretical advantage over this

last, namely that depends on only one medium, air, whereas the

other depends on two, suppose air and glass, or water and air any
                             is,
                                   a

                                             I

                                                       I
                                                                                                      ;

                                                           I
change in the refractive index of the glass or water might appear

to belong to change in the refractive index of air. But do not

think there would be much difficulty about that.  have not yet

mentioned what this method   but hope to do so before

conclude.

But        it  seems to me that both the methods depending on

refraction and that on the use of diffraction grating are put

out of court by the superior delicacy and convenience of that

depending on the measure of the displacement of fringes of

interference.  I  remembered reading the result in Moigno's R4per-

INDICES OF GASES BY INTERFEROMETER  359

toire d'Optique Moderne, and after a little I found the place.
It is at pp. 161, 162. Arago and Fresnel applied the method

 to determining the difference of index between dry air and air

 saturated with moisture at the same pressure and temperature,
 which was 27 C. or 806 F. With tubes a metre long a displace
 ment of a fringe and a half was observed, and the calculated
 difference of index corresponding was 00000009, nine in the
seventh place of decimals. This is slightly under 03 per cent,

of the whole difference between the refractive index and unity.

It amounts to about as much as the one-eleventh of an inch in
the height of the barometer. It would come to about 0" 15 in

angle for a heavenly body at an altitude of 45°. The one-sixth or
one-seventh of a second is a very small quantity to deal with ;

and though the refraction would of course be much more for a

body low down, on the other hand the definition would not be

so good.

    The refraction method I was led to think of is this. To

magnify the effect it is of course well to work with a very con
siderable angle of emergence. At such high angles there is great
loss of light by reflection at the common surface of glass (or
whatever other medium you use to confine the air) and air, and

if there be many such reflections the loss is very considerable.
In the method of a prism with a considerably obtuse angle, the

sides formed of parallel plate, there are four such very oblique

refractions, and the factor for the intensity of the refracted light

being raised to the fourth power becomes very small when the

inclination is very great. It appears from the formulae that there

is an immense gain in point of light by using a single refraction
only at that very high angle, and getting up the difference of
deviation by making the angle of emergence very little short
of 90°. The important boundary of the air in the vessel holding
it would thus be a surface of glass or other material forming one
side of a prism into which the light would be refracted at a
moderate angle, while it emerged almost grazing.

      The surface of almost grazing emergence would have to be
worked very truly plane, as a small change of inclination of the
surface, that is, of an element of the surface, would make a

comparatively large error in the direction of the refracted ray.

This difficulty I thought might be got over by using for the

surface of emergence the free surface of water forming one face

360  INDICES OF GASES BY PRISM OR GRATING

of a water prism*. The arrangement would be roughly as in the
figure [omitted]. What would be observed would be differences
of refraction corresponding to the substitution of one gas for
another over the water. By using rock oil, or some such fluid
in place of water, dry and moist air could be tried alternately.
One gas might be made to take the place of another by dis
placement, so that there should be no risk of displacement due
to a slight derangement accompanying the removal and re-
introduction of atmospheric pressure by an air pump.

   II merely mention this as a matter of curiosity which thought
Imight interest you. For actual accuracy and convenience don't

think the method of interferences can be equalled.

   If a grating were used, suppose a deviation of even 50° were

used for a spectrum of some order n. Then supposing the incidence
in the grating perpendicular

                                     sin D = -- ,

                                                                 P

where p is the interval of the grating. To find the change of
deviation consequent on a small change of index of the gas, and
consequently of wave length in the medium, take the logarithm
and differentiate. We have

                          cotD.dD = dA^. = -d^.

     In the case supposed of the difference between dry air and

moist, and with a deviation in the grating as great as 50°,
is

             ^

                             is
                                     00
                                             a

                        a^
                                                           0
                                                                                                /J,
                                                                                                   0
                = 0000009, tan D = 11918

     dD = tan D = 000001 almost exactly.

Now one second  0000048481, say for round numbers 000005.

Hence the change in the angular position of the point observed

only the one-fifth of second, a quantity too small to perceive.

     On the other hand nothing hinders us from using, in the

method of interferences,  pair of tubes several metres long.

With tubes 10 metres long the displacement produced by sub
stituting moist air, i.e. air saturated at 80'6 F., for dry air, would

amount to 15 fringes.

     * But even so, the increased magnification does not affect at all the purity of the
spectrum, by Lord Rayleigh's rule. See Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. (1871),

p. 354.

TRANSITION IN LAW OF FLUID RESISTANCE                    361

                                         13 Feb., 1880.
I Ireturned from London to-day about 1 o'clock.
                                                 had occa

sion to go to the observatory in the matter of the sunshine

I Irecorder. It is rather late now to begin a letter to you so as to

catch the 5 o'clock, but will see what can do before post time.

     The first point is as to the objection to the formula for
resistance which makes it vary as the square of the relative
velocity. The ground of the objection is the discontinuous nature

of the formula.

    Now if the formula professed to be rigorous, that would be
a serious objection. But it is certain that the resistance to bodies

moving through a fluid with more than excessively small velo

cities is intimately bound up with the formation of eddies, and

we cannot expect to be able to obtain a rigorous mathematical
formula taking in the effect of eddies. The formula must be more

or less of an empirical nature. The usual approximate formula,

making the resistance vary as the square --therefore an even
power --of the relative velocity, but at the same time reverse its

direction when the sign of the relative velocity is changed, is such

that if we take abscissae to represent the relative velocity and

ordinates to represent the resistance, measured positive in a
given direction, the curve of resistance is made up of two half

parabolas, such as would be formed by imagining a parabola cut
in two by its axis, and one half turned round the tangent at the
vertex till after a half turn it gets into its own plane again.

     This is at any rate a near approximation to the curve of
actual experiment, supposing the body that moves through the
fluid to be symmetrical with respect to a medial plane perpen
dicular to the direction of motion. When the motion is exces

sively small the resistance varies more nearly as the velocity, so

that in the neighbourhood of the point corresponding to a relative
velocity nil the true curve cuts the axis at a small angle instead
of touching it. The general forms of the true curve and of the

approximate empirical curve would be related somewhat as in the

figure below [not reproduced] where the true curve is supposed to

be the black one, and the approximate curve the red one made up

of two semi-parabolas. In the figure the ordinate is supposed to

represent the resistance measured positive in a given direction,
and the ordinate is the same, except as to sign, when the relative

velocity is the same except as to sign.

362 THEORY OF EAR TRUMPET

Now it does not strike me as an objection to the empirical

curve being a near approximation to the true curve that the

radius of curvature in the empirical curve changes per saltum.

This transition takes place in a part of the curve corresponding

to such very minute relative velocities that practically we have

little to do with it in all ordinary experiments.

    IBut think fatal objections may be urged to the V2 -- v2
formula. In the first place, as I think I remarked to you, it is

not in accordance with the second law of motion. The formula

for the resistance would not remain the same, as it ought to do,
when a common velocity is superadded to both V and v. Again,

if the formula claim to be true irrespective of sign as well as
magnitude of V and v, it leads to results which are manifestly

incorrect. Thus suppose we have a stream flowing with a velocity

of 10 miles an hour; let a sphere move in it with a velocity

of 3 miles an hour, first with stream and secondly against stream.

Manifestly the resistance will be much greater in the second case

than in the first. Yet we have v = 10 in both cases, and v = + 3 in

the first case, and = -- 3 in the second. Yet the formula V1 -- v2 gives
the same result in both cases. And if it be said that the formula

supposes V and v to be both positive, then we want a second

formula to express the resistance when V and v are in contrary

directions; so that in seeking for a formula that shall express

the resistance in a given direction in all cases, we encounter

a discontinuity of formula, which is precisely the same objection

that you urged against the + (V-- v)1 formula.
     As to the ear trumpet, the theory of it is a matter of great

difficulty. We must not too closely associate it with the idea

of the reflection of light ; for the lengths of the sound waves of

average pitch would be about 4 feet, and so, large compared

with the dimensions of the trumpet. Perhaps the state of

things would be better pictured to the mind by thinking of a

long Atlantic swell coming into a creek 20 or 30 feet long.

Suppose the water deep ; then the rise of the water at the end

would depend on the tapering form of the creek. To get a good

rise, the taper should be fairly gentle, and there should not be

Iprojecting shoulders of rock at which a portion of the swell would
be reflected and so sent back.  should say that in the ear

trumpet the narrow part of the paper cone ought to be led into

the india-rubber tube by as flowing an outline as may be. It

               PRINCIPLE OF SPECTROHELIOGRAPH  363

should not be like this (1), but rather like this (2). Also the whole
should be air-tight, especially in the narrow part.

   If the edges be merely sewed, I mean the edges of the paper

or cardboard which forms the cone, it would be well to introduce

a little gum or glue into the chinks to stop the communication
between the air inside and outside. Towards the wide mouth it

does not much signify, but in the narrower part it should be

air-tight.

                                                                                   Cambridge,

                                                                         July 11, 1880.

   I have just got a collection of phosphorescent substances from

Dr Schuchardt of Gorlitz. They arrived on Saturday evening.

I Ihope may have some sun to examine them by in a pure

spectrum.

     Working at phosphori led me to a new way of examining

fluorescent or phosphorescent substances when opaque, by which

you can see the spectrum or rather the patch covered by the

spectrum in its natural condition, only with the scattered light

as it were picked out from
I
        I

                                                ;

                             it it,

                                     I

                                                                                              is
                                                                                             is
                            so that the fluorescent or phospho

rescent light may be seen without the scattered light which
mixed with it. In connexion with this have thought of a way

of viewing external objects in their natural forms but by the

light of a pure spectrum so that each point of the object seen

by homogeneous light, the refrangibility changing from one side

to the other.  have tried   with some common objects, but
hitherto did not get any result of particular interest. It might

possibly be useful for localising any places on the sun which give

bright lines*, or for the prominences.

     * Cf. the spectrohelioRraph as now employed, first realised about 1892 by Hale,
Evershed, Deslandres, and others.

364 VARIABILITY OF SPECTRA IN VACUUM TUBES

                                           Cambridge,

                                            16 October, 1880.

I had not seen the statement you refer to from Piazzi
I ISmyth.
          don't in fact see the Observer.   may perhaps look
Iout for it, but suppose there is no more in it than what you

told me.
IWith you am puzzled to account for the disappearance of
Ithe nitrogen. As to that of the chlorine, should be rather
Idisposed to suppose that it combined with the electrodes.
                                                                     do

not know whether Smyth mentions what metal the electrodes

were made of. It appears from the recent researches of Liveing

and Dewar that nitrogen combines under the circumstances of

the electric discharge, and even in heated tubes, with metals

in cases in which we should not have expected such a result.

We knew well before what a stable compound it makes with

Ititanium ; but several other of the combinations that they

mention, or some other, for don't know that there were very
Imany in all, are cases which, so far as know, were not previously
Iknown.
          don't suppose that in these cases the compound was

a very stable one.

   I should be disposed to look to the electrodes rather than to

the constituents of the glass for the disappearance of the chlorine,

and also of the nitrogen if it be really true that this latter did

disappear, and that the apparent disappearance was not due to

the employment of some different kind of discharge, which was

fitted to bring out specially the hydrogen lines. My difficulty

about attributing the disappearance to the glass is that the

metals of the glass are already fully combined.

As to the feeble fluorescence produced by hydrogen in a

Geissler's tube, all we can say is that it does not abound with rays

of high refrangibility as much as the others, nitrogen for example.

Perhaps we might go by conjecture one little step further, and

Iconnect it with the comparatively good conducting     power of
hydrogen. I think  am right in supposing that          hydrogen

conducts the discharge better than most other gases.   If so, the

electric tension required to strike across might not be so great as

in the case of other gases, and the discharge in consequence not

so violent, and not so exciting of vibrations of very short period.

Our poor Master [of Pembroke] is not by any means so well

to-day. We did not see him when we called.

           CALCULATIONS FOB METALLIC REFLECTION                                                365

                                                                      Cambridge,

                                                                                                10 May, 1881.

   I do not know of any formulae that have been given for

metallic reflection except MacCullagh's and Cauchy's. Cauchy's

are substantially the same as MacCullagh's, differing from them

only in the details of development. MacCullagh's, as you know,

are simply Fresnel's formulae, calculated on the supposition that

the index of refraction is a mixed imaginary, and reduced as Fresnel

interpreted his formula? for the case in which the angle of inci

dence, internally, exceeds the angle of total internal reflection.

    I have never worked at the reduction of experiments on

I Imetallic reflection, but am disposed to think that should keep

in the imaginaries to a later stage, and not get rid of them till it

appeared most convenient so to do. I should work on for some

way with Fresnel's formulae.

   This seems especially convenient when the data of observation

are the principal incidence and the principal azimuth.

   Let changes of phase be embodied in the coefficient, so that

the factor a (cos a + V -- 1 sin a) multiplying the expression for the
vibration means that the amplitude is multiplied by a and the

phase accelerated by a. Then if p, q denote the factors after

reflection for light polarised perpendicularly and parallel to the

plane of incidence, unity being the coefficient before incidence, we

have by Fresnel's expressions           i') t')            _ sin   (i (t-
                                            '                            i') i')
             - tan (i --                                   ~~         +
                                   tan +                                            '
           qp P           (t (i (i                ii          sin

                    - -cos + i') cos V /x2 -- sin2 -- sin29
                    cos             i')          cos V^2 sin2      *i

                                                                       +

                                                                            ii
                                                                                            '
                                                                             sin2

   If be the principal azimuth, at which light polarized perpen
   a
dicularly to the plane of incidence retarded a quarter undulaois

tion relatively to light polarised in the plane of incidence, and

tan = in,

                                    p/q = -- m*/ --        l,

whence                                                            V,

           -cos                                                     --- -

           cos
                    Va2 -- sin2     i      -- sin2,
           i,t                                         ,=  m
                   .vVJ.  --    ,   ,     . sin'   i, i                  1,
                                           +,
                              sin2      1

i  being here the principal incidence.

366 POSSIBLE ADAMANTINE QUALITY IN METALS
                         -cos i vV2 -- sin2 i 1 mV-1
                                                        1 +m V^l
                             sin8!

                                                        = cos 2a -- V -- 1 sin 2i.

    - -. . .
         u?  =  si.n2,,   .  sin--'i          (vcos 4o     .  1 si.n 4a).
                         1H
                             cos2 1                     v

     From this equation /i can be expressed under the form
a -- V -- 1 6, and then for the intensity at a perpendicular incidence

we have

             ---modulus2                                . a -- v-- 16 -- 1
                             orf fi-- 1- ,    or        of ,                  ,

°r              (a-l)2 + 62 °r _                              4a

                (a+l)2 + 62'                                  + l)2 + 62-
is

                  iIf
                                                                         ((t
                                             I
    The formulae of Cauchy, which as said are substantially

equivalent to those of MacCullagh, appear to agree well with

observation, but,            rightly recollect, not quite exactly. This

    what we should expect, assuming that they form a correct

extension of Fresnel's formulae. For the latter fail to account for

the peculiar phenomena exhibited by diamond and other highly

refracting substances in the neighbourhood of the polarising

angle, phenomena which have been extended by Jamin so as to

embrace nearly all transparent substances. As in transparent

substances the failure chiefly perceived in the case of highly
if

                         is
                                          is
refracting substances, and as metals, apart from their peculiar

optical properties as metals, would naturally be classed with

highly refracting substances, we might expect Fresnel's formulae,

    rightly extended to metals, to show similar and even more

pronounced deviations from exact agreement with observation.

    But there            another matter as regards films. Fresnel's

formulas are applicable to a single reflection; and                              if  they are

rightly extended, as they were extended by MacCullagh to metals,
the extended formulae ought to apply to metals in mass. We

should not expect them to explain the difference between aa
metallic film and the same metal in mass any more than we
should expect Fresnel's formulae for single reflection to explain
the colours of thin plates.

   If the extension of Fresnel's formulas to metals be rightly

made, the same principles ought to lead us to the explanation
of the optical phenomena of metallic films, by proceeding as we

REFLECTING POWER OF SILVER INDIRECTLY CALCULATED 367

do in the explanation of the colours of thin plates. We know the

principles of the investigation, but the expressions would come

rather long, and the numerical calculation would be laborious, not
Ihowever, should think, anything very tremendous.
I Ithought
            would work out the numerical value of the
Iintensity from the above formula for one case. So took the

numbers given by Conroy* at p. 495 for silver that had been

polished with putty powder, yellow light, namely

     Principal incidence 74° 37' ; principal azimuth 43° 22'. With

Ithese numbers get from the above formula, for the intensity at

a perpendicular incidence -9349. This is rather higher than the

number you quote -91.
If the principal azimuth were 45°, the formula would give
Iperfect reflection at a perpendicular incidence.
                                                   see that Jamin

gives a somewhat lower figure for the principal azimuth for yellow

light for silver, about 40° instead of 43° 22' which is given by
Conroy. With Jamin's figure the intensity at a perpendicular

incidence would come out lower. Conroy 's principal azimuths for

yellow light for silver that had been polished with putty powder

come out about 8 degrees higher than for what has been polished

with rouge. As he says that the silver so polished, though very

Ibright, had a reddish tinge in certain lights, should think his

explanation is very likely to be correct, that particles of the rouge

too fine to be seen got embedded in the silver.

    It is clear that the films, at least the thinner ones, if calcu

lated by the same formula would give a value to the intensity at

a perpendicular incidence a good deal lower.

   IAlthough Cauchy made no material change in MacCullagh's

formulae, think he supplied a rationale for them, which Mac-

Cullagh had not done. I have considerable confidence in them,
except that I think that it is probable that the cause which

renders Fresnel's formulae inexact for highly refracting substances

f;in the neighbourhood of the polarising angle operates to a still

greater degree in the case of metals and as the principal azimuth

and principal incidence are measured about what most nearly

corresponds to an angle of polarization, those may not be the best

data on which to found the calculation.

    I heard of the proceedings at the Astronomical Society

* Hoy. Soc. Proc.

t Cf. however Maclaurin's recent papers in Hoy. Soc. Proc.

368 NATURE AND SUPPLY OF SOLAR RADIATION

& propos to the motion by Sir Edward Beckett, &c. so you need

not trouble yourself to send the Observato1y.

   The Adams's are coming home from Brighton to-day. They
were to have returned to-morrow, but I heard that Professor Adams
Ihad got cold, and wanted to see Dr Latham.
                                                        hope it is not

Ianything to signify, but his coming home that way looks as if it
were somewhat severe.      heard that he got much stronger at

Brighton. We have had very pleasant weather for a person who

is strong, but rather a trying kind for persons who are delicate
on the chest, fine bright sun and with it a rather keen air.

   Balfour Stewart has devised a new form of actinometer, which

has now been tried for a year by Blanford at Calcutta. He has

sent us the results of the observations, and they are now being

printed in extract. The instrument appears to work well, but

Calcutta as might be supposed does not seem to be a good place
for trying it. With the Bay of Bengal on the south and the

Delta of the Ganges on the north, there is doubtless far too much
moisture in the air to make it a good place. Thibet would be

a capital place, and we are in hopes of getting observations made
there. Sir E. Sabine told me long ago that a very serious

drawback to Herschel's actinometer was its great fragility*.
     With our present knowledge of the constitution of the sun

I don't think the supposition that its heat is not supplied from

without, but is in fact primitive heat, presents the difficulties
it formerly would have presented. We have evidence of the

freest interchange between the superficial portions of the mass

and those deeper down ; so that although the supply of heat from

the sun is enormous, the capital to draw upon is so gigantic that

Iages may pass without any diminution that could be noticed.
         have taken out the volume of the Annates de Chimie

with Foucault's paper about the comparison of the sun with the
Ielectric arc.
                it                                      but on dipping into
                                         by

                                                   it,
                have not yet read                                            it

I  see that they-- was really Foucault and Fizeau jointly --

employed photography, fully recognising at the same time that

the ratio of the luminous and photographic intensities might be

IIconsiderably different.

         May, 1881.-- will try another example of the calculation
of the intensity. At 493, Conroy gives for yellow light, silver
                I

                       p.

polished with rouge,

                           * Cf. supra, p. 182.

          EXAMPLE OF ARITHMETICAL REDUCTION                                                          369

                        Prin. Inc. 75° 53';        Prin. Az. 85° 42'.

I put down all the work                                     log cos i= 1-3872

                log sin t = 1-9867                                                            2

                                                2

                     1-9734                              2-7744
                              2

          Subtr.     1-9468                        a=35° 42'
                     2-7744                                       4

                     1-1724                              142° 48'

..{ V-M^X~1 (l-9734) + X-1 (1-1724) {cos 142° 48'-       1 sin 142° 48'}*
                                                   -X-1 1-9012- V^TX-1^^}
= .. +

- - -= X-1 (1-9734)- X-1 (1-0736) --V^ix-^sso

= -9406 1 1 -847 899^^1 .= -10-906 8-993^^1

log sec 6= -1128                                   log 8-993= -9539

log 10-906 = 1-0374                                ,, 10-906 1-0374

          l-1502=log modulus                       l-9165 = log tan 6

          -fi2=                                                                   5 = 39° 32'

                    X-1 (1-1502) (cos 39" 32' + V^T sin 39° 32')

          = X~1 (1-1502) (cos 140° 28'-            sin 140° 28')

          V3!A.=X-1 (-5751) (cos 70° 14'-          sin 70° 14')

          log cos 70° 14' = T-5292                 log sin = l-9736

                                 5751                    5751

                           - =a-^lb.1043                 -5487

                    fi = 1 -272 3-538\TH[
          _light
                               _4ci 5-088                5 088
                                                         17-679
                    l0st-(o + 1)2 + 6-2-5.162 + i2-517_

                                                         logs -7066

                                                                     1-2475

                                                         1-4591

          -light reflected at x incidence =1                n" = -2878
                                                   -2878 =-7122.

    It appears from this that the rouge-polished silver gives only

71 per cent, at a perpendicular incidence, while the putty-polished

gave 93 per cent.

    If the difference in Sir John Conroy's determinations was due

to the embedding of a foreign substance, it is probable that the
Iformulae for metallic reflection would not apply.
                                                                     can imagine

that the difference may be real. The rouge would powerfully

absorb light, but yet not so powerfully as to be comparable in

that respect to silver, and so would not have a high reflecting

power like silver.

                     * X~1 stands for (log)-1,

s. b. i.                                                                                         24

                                                              ">LAR RADIATION
370 THEORIES OF THE AUROK

                                                                   Beckett, &c. so you need

I IThanks for your long and interesting letter acsp f     .,
   was aware that the electromotive forces quoted .,
Iwere not the highest that could be cited, but d:\A,     ..
where to turn for records of higher. It did not, howe v
                                                         '

Imatter for my purpose, as had merely to show that the c*P

motive forces concerned in earth currents were of quite an£
order of magnitude from those required to send an electric a^.te

charge through such enormous spaces in air as must be done ii

auroral streamers.

     Balfour Stewart had suggested many years ago in Nature tha'                             ^s
the magnetic or rather auroral effect of solar disturbances was duel                          to,c
to radiation, but his theory on the subject was quite different
from mine. He suggested that the moving air--moving as wind                                          I
-- in the higher regions was made a better conductor, or rather
less resistant to electric discharges of the nature of disruptive dis
charges, which enabled the inductive electromagnetic effect of
the earth's magnetism to produce electric currents, or rather

discharges.

     The auroral tube in my experiments was, as you supposed,

only very imperfectly rarefied. I took what I found there, which

happened to be an auroral tube capable of exhaustion by a

common air-pump. The exhaustion was so imperfect that the

discharge, instead of filling the tube, passed through in a stream

Ino thicker suppose than one's little finger. However, it sufficed

for my purpose, which was to show the very great difference

between air at ordinary pressures and rarefied air.

We may form some idea of the temperature as you ascend in

the air by the results obtained in balloon voyages ; at least up to

the heights that balloons go; beyond that they don't help us.

But the results vary greatly with the circumstances.        Quite

recently Captain Templer went up along with one of the persons

Iemployed in the Meteorological Office. At about 6000 feet think

it was they got into a terribly cold stratum, with the thermo

meter down to -- 7 F. But when they ascended to about 10,000

I think it was they got into comparatively warm air, the thermo

meter being + 31. It is possible that some formula might express

     * At South Kensington : reported in Nature ; see Math, and Phy>. Paper/,

Vol. v. Prefacei \

             I

INVERSIONS OF TEMPERATURE IN THE ATMOSPHERE 371

pretty well the mean decrease of temperature in ascending. This

might be applicable to calculations of astronomical refraction,

where you want to combine a great number of observations taken

under varying atmospheric conditions. But this would not help

much for the aurora, which with us is rather a rare phenomenon.

Of course we could get a near approximation to the height of

Iminimum resistance, except it be that the height for which the

resistance is a minimum (or should rather say the density for
Iwhich it is a minimum) may for aught we know depend very
largely upon temperature. Perhaps  may suggest this to

Mr De la Rue as a subject worthy of examination.
It does not seem to me likely that in Mr De la Rue's experi

ments the internal resistance of his battery made much, if

any, difference in the striking distance. Prior to the strike,

the battery was idle, supplying merely electric tension, not

current, except as to the very trifling driblet of a discharge

which passed before the spark passed. Of course once the arc

was formed, the rate of discharge would depend materially upon

the resistance in the battery, unless, as possibly may have been
the case, the resistance in the battery was trifling compared with
the resistance in the air that the spark had struck across and now

Ithe discharge is passing through.

     Your suggestion -- as understand you -- that the whole earth,

atmosphere and all, is charged, like an insulated pith ball, the

I Iinsulator being the interplanetary vacuum, is new to me, and
must think it well out.  have always felt great difficulty about
the production of atmospheric electricity. It appeared from the

phenomena to be connected with the condensation of vapour ;

I mean its more violent manifestations appeared to be so con

nected ; but how ?

As to the relation of aurora to cirrus cloud, my notion is that

the condensation by which cloud is formed does not give rise to

the development of electricity, but that the globules of water or

spiculse of ice, as the case may be, which constitute the cloud,

form so many nuclei enabling a previously existing charge of
electricity to escape, which it could not do so long as the air
was homogeneous, the water mixed with it being all in the
elastic state. And possibly the effect of a fog in a kite string
is to permit the electricity to pass from the air to the string,
which without the fog it could not do, unless the whole length of

                                                  24--2

372 NUCLEI AND THEIR EFFECT ON CONDENSATION

the string had contained a smouldering match to serve as collector.
Even under ordinary circumstances, the difference of potential at

two places a moderate height apart is enormous, and perhaps we
might get as strong manifestations of electricity as those you

mention if we could make each element of the string a good

collector of electricity from the neighbouring air. Or rather

perhaps if we could make the upper half, or so, of the string

a good collector.

   IThere are some other points that intended to write about,
Ibut am going out with the girls to a concert, and I must go and

dress.

                                                                                            14 Nov. 1881.

IHaving now returned from the concert, will go on with my

letter.
I will make some enquiries as to whether aurorse are seen in
Ithe arctic regions when the sky is cloudless.
                                                think we see them

in this country when there are not more at any rate than very
Itenuous clouds.
                  have seen an auroral arch passing nearly
Ithrough the zenith, and don't recollect clouds in connexion

with it.

   I think it quite possible that there may be a development of

Ielectricity in connexion with the condensation by which even

tenuous clouds are produced, but should imagine the quantity

would not be great enough to feed auroral streamers.

As to the direction of the streamers, Plücker showed that

when a strong magnet is presented to a Geissler tube, the negative

Ilight proceeds from the electrode along lines of magnetic force.

The electricity of a serene sky normally is negative, believe pretty

well without exception, so that if we suppose the auroral discharge

to proceed upwards, the cloud or whatever it be that starts it
being at the lower extremity, it would be in the condition of the
discharge starting from a negative electrode. Further, as to

Iwhy in both cases a line of magnetic force should be followed,

   think Plücker has some speculations, and Reuben Phillips had

before him, according to which an incipient discharge starting
otherwise than along a line of magnetic force would get torn off
as it were by the force of the magnetism on the current. For the

force on the element of the current is perpendicular to the
element and to the direction of the line on magnetic force passing

through the current, and is proportional to the sine of the angle

                MAGNETIC EFFECT ON ELECTRIC DISCHARGE                          373

between the direction of the current and that of the line of

magnetic force, and therefore could not fail to act laterally on

the current unless the current were along the line of magnetic

force.

     The positive light in a Geissler tube behaves quite differently

with respect to the magnetic force. It behaves as a perfectly

flexible wire carrying a current would do*.

       May the space above into which the auroral streamers extend

and then disappear be analogous to the dark space separating the

positive from the negative light in an exhausted tube ?

     As to the action of heat in facilitating the discharge in rarefied

air, I had not thought of the change of density it would produce,

but only of the specific effect of the heating of the air. At

the height of minimum resistance as depending on density, a
small change of density would make very little difference.

   I found in my reading about the aurora that there is a

so-called auroral zone, Nordlicht Zirkel, where it is seen very fre

Iquently. This is at a higher latitude, about 70° think, in the

north of Russia, than it is in America where it comes down to,
I Ithink, 50° or 60°.
                       supposed Iceland is comprised in  I                     for
                                                               it,
Mrs Magnusson told me that in the winter months there, from

about August, the aurora  very frequently going on, think
                          is

                            I

                                I

                                              it
indeed nearly every night, but don't recollect exactly what she

said of  is itas to frequency. When you get north of this zone the
aurora        much less frequent and conspicuous. Dr Rae told me
                                                                               f

that in one of his winter stations, think was near Great Bear

Lake, the aurora was of the rushing kind, and the magnetic

needle was simultaneously affected, while in another of his winter

stations, somewhere, think, N.E. of Hudson's Bay, the aurorae
                    I
                          think comparatively faint, and the
                       I
seen were steady, and

magnetic needle was not affected. These aurorae always appeared

to the south, over some open water, or at least there was open

water also lying to the south of them. Whether the aurora was

just at the distance of the open water, so as to be really just over

it,    could not, suppose, be made out.
                II
       We had under our consideration the question of using
                                                                               ;3
thermopile.         think the chief reason which deterred us from
                                                                                       a
       * For mathematical theory, cf. Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v.      p.  and
          Thomson, 'Conduction of Electricity through Gases.'
J.
   t J.  See letters from Dr J. Rae, F.R.S., of date 1881, supra, p. 237.

374 NUCLEI NECESSARY TO ELECTRIC DISCHARGE

using it was the necessity for some skill and training on part

of the observer, which it would be difficult to get in an out-of-
Ithe-way place like Thibet for example.
                                         have also heard the

objection raised of the liability of alteration in consequence of an

Ialteration in the state of the coating of the elements. I have

never worked with one myself, and do not know how far this

objection is serious.

   II intended to have got you yesterday the Natures containing

the other lectures at South Kensington, but was detained till

just dinner time.

  I IP.S. About half the above was written this morning -- Nov. 15.

-- think mentioned in my former part that my notion of the

relation of auroral streamers to light cirrus clouds is that the
globules or spiculae of ice as the case may be form nuclei, per

mitting a discharge to pass.
     As a matter of observation, in clear weather the potential

increases positively upwards. At least this is the case in the

neighbourhood of the earth, and presumably the same would hold
at a good height. There would, therefore, be a constant tendency
for positive electricity to pass downwards; but this in general
it cannot do in consequence of the resistance to the passage

offered by the air. In the high regions this resistance would be
less, on account of the lower density ; and if the passage be aided

by nuclei in the lower portion of this higher region, that may

enable the discharge to pass. Besides, there may be difficulty
for homogeneous air, free from nuclei, to receive or part with a

charge.

                                                                    Cambridge, 16 Nov. 1881.

   I now send you the Natures containing the other lectures,

except Captain Abney's, which it seems were not published. The
first of Lockyer's also was not published. They may not perhaps
reach you by this, as they go by book post.

   I have written to Captain Abney suggesting that he should

try to photograph an aurora. Electric light is so rich in rays of
high refrangibility that, notwithstanding the faintness of the light

Ito the eye, think there is a chance that it could be photographed

without so long an exposure as to make the record all confused

Iffrom the superposition of what took place at different times.

a good photograph could be got, that would seem to offer the best

                 MODERATE HEIGHT OF AURORAS                                                    375

prospect of measuring the height by parallax, of course by means
                              I am a good deal sceptical about
of simultaneous photographs.
Ithe very great heights assigned. They are derived,
                                                                                               think,

mainly from measurements of the altitudes of arches. Now if

the arches are foreshortened curtains of streamers, and such seems

to have been the opinion of Mr Farquharson --Phil. Trans, for
1829 --who living far north in Scotland had good opportunities of

studying the phenomenon,it by say, the arches are foreshortened

                              iIf,

                                                      it

                                                           I

                                                                                            a
curtains of streamers, the parallax of lines so greatly fore

shortened would seem to be very uncertain.                                                   cannot help

thinking that numerous measures of the azimuths of streamers,

accompanied        an accurate note of the time, and by rough

sketches, might lead to more certain results. In number of

observations thus made at two places,                                    might be possible to

pick out pairs in which the object observed could be identified.

Of course the lateral motion of the streamers would cause a

difficulty, and    would be necessary to select streamers with a

view to this difficulty.

                                                      Cambridge, December 13, 1881.

...I will now turn to the different points in your letter.

Whatever the negative electricity of the earth may be due
I
     1.

                                                if

                                                                      a
to, do not think that any chemical action between the interior

of the solid crust and the fluid inside,                                 fluid nucleus there be,

would at all account for it. The electromotive force that could

be thus accounted for would be utterly insufficient to meet the

observed phenomena of atmospheric electricity. When we say

that the earth ordinarily negative, we mean of course relatively
                 is
                          a  little way up. According to Thomson, the
to the atmosphere

difference of potential between two points at different heights, in

ordinary fair weather, varies from 22 to 44 Daniell's elements

per foot of height. No chemical action would account for differ

ences anything like this.     mean of course no chemical action
A

  I
                     is
                                a
                          I
                                                                          is
                                                                                      is

                                                                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                                                  is,
that we can by any reasonable supposition attribute to an action

between the solid crust and fluid nucleus, or between the

water covering great part of the earth and the solid parts.

cell or so apparently the utmost that we could account for in

that way.

had not noticed the statement that the sea                                                     normally

positive, not negative like the land, to the atmosphere that

that the change of potential in the two cases of land and

sea, as we ascend into the atmosphere,                                   opposite.

376 SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY OF VOLCANOS

It is a very interesting question how the electric potential,

or to use the old word, tension, varies as we ascend to great

heights away from the surface of the earth altogether, which we

still are on even when we are on top of a high mountain. We

contemplated, at the Meteorological Office, having electrical experi
Iments made in balloons ; but fear the disaster to the ' Saladin '
Imay knock that on the head.
Ifof Mr Powell's safety.        fear there is small hope now

                          the wind blew the balloon over to

France, he probably would come down safely, but we should
Iprobably have heard of it before now.
                                        am going up to London

Ito-morrow to a meeting of the Meteorological Council.

       have just been to the Station to get an evening paper, but no

news of Mr Powell.

   I was aware of the great development of electricity in the

condensed vapours emitted by volcanos. It had not occurred to

Ime to enquire about the ashes, nor do know whether it is

Ia necessary condition of the development of the electricity that
the steam should be accompanied by ashes.  should rather
suppose not. I cannot help connecting in my own mind the

phenomenon with the very rapid condensation of vapour of water

Iin the great cumuli which accompany thunder storms; in fact,
which form the thunder clouds.  can hardly help thinking

that this condensation has to do with the development of elec

tricity, though at present laboratory experiments have not shown

in what way the development takes place, if it does take place

under such circumstances.

    I have seen it stated that there is a place somewhere on the

south-west coast of Ireland where miniature thunder storms are of

frequent occurrence. Air laden with vapour comes from over

the Atlantic up a valley between two mountains, and gets con

densed, and the result is that there are frequent little thunder

storms. The vapour is here caught in the act of condensation,

and the condensed vapour of giving out electricity.

2. The strength of atmospheric electricity in the colder

months seems correlative with the comparative absence of thunder

storms ; just as thunder storms in the lower latitudes seem to take

Ithe place of the aurora in the higher.

    In some books on aurora was lately reading, or rather, about

the time when I gave the lectures at South Kensington, it was

stated that there was an auroral belt in not very high latitudes

where the aurora was more frequent than in higher or lower

STATISTICS OF AURORAS  377

latitudes. In Asia this belt was in a higher latitude than in
America; but whether the belt is found nearly in the same

Imagnetic latitude do not know. The change of latitude of

the auroral belt seems to favour the idea that it may at any rate

be at least approximately so.

    It seems almost to me that I had written this to you before,

I Ibut oftentimes am unable after some time to say whether have

actually written a thing, or merely recollect the intention as if it

were a thing that had been actually executed.
     Is not the old idea of a second north magnetic pole in Siberia

given up as the result of more numerous and more accurate
determinations? In Sabine's magnetic maps of the circumpolar
regions, there is only one magnetic pole represented, namely, that
to the North of America. Of course the actual magnetic system

may be decomposed if we please into two magnetic systems, and

then each would have its pole ; but that is merely like the resolu

tion of forces, and involves an arbitrary procedure.

   I cannot lay my hands on a numerical statement as to
Ifrequency of aurora in different places, but came across one

lately. It is said that at a given place, at least in moderate

latitudes, such as ours, the displays are more frequent about the

two equinoxes than at other times of year.
     Mrs Magnusson told me lately that in Iceland the displays are

very frequent ; sometimes for two or three weeks together you will

have them every night.
     She told me also that on one occasion when she and some

other girls were watching a very fine aurora she pulled out a letter
written by a lady, a relative or connexion of hers, who writes an
extremely small hand, and she was able to read it perfectly by the

light of the aurora alone. I asked her whether there was any

moon at the time to help her, and she said not.

    I asked Mrs Magnusson also about auroral arches stretching

from east to west nearly over the zenith. She had not seen such
in Iceland.

   I hardly think Hansteen's explanation of auroral arches based

on the behaviour of an electro-magnet charged with frictional

electricity can hold. In such a magnet, of the usual form, that

with flat poles presenting rectangular edges, there great con
centration, at least think so, of magnetic force, mean external
magnetic force, near the edges certainly there in permanent
magnet, as shown to the eye by the behaviour of iron filings
is

       I

                                                 ;

                                      is I

                                                                         a is
                                                                                             ; is,

378 ELECTRIC DISCHARGE IN RAREFIED AIR

whereas if we were to conceive the earth, retaining its actual

distribution of magnetism, to be reduced to a moderate size, and
to be strewn with iron filings, no such special concentration of

magnetic force about a particular magnetic latitude would be

manifested.

   I do not think that the experiments you mention as to the

different length of the arcs formed in presence of an electro
magnet, according as it is excited or not, enable us to judge of the
effect of the magnetism on the conducting power. For the most
notable effect consists in the lateral displacement of the arc, due
to the magnetism acting as it would on a conducting wire. Thus
in the case of a flat platinum plate placed on the flat pole of an

electro-magnet, with a platinum point opposed to the discharge,
when the current round the helix was off, would pass from the
point to the nearest part of the plate, and therefore along the
perpendicular let fall from the point to the plate. But when the
current was turned on would have to pass to one side of that,

in consequence of the lateral action of the magnetic force, and
therefore could no longer travel along the shortest line as before,
and therefore the distance must be reduced in order to let
it

  I

                                is it
                                                                               it,
pass.                    seriously ill. He has been suffering

     fear De la Rue

from diabetes, and has been ordered, for the present at least,

not to attend to any business. He had an attack once before,

but got over it. He was better by the last accounts.

He was working out the density of minimum resistance to

discharge when he was taken ill. The pressure for air, at ordinary

temperatures, was        rightly recollect about        of a millimetre
            ;                         is
                                           0
                    iIf                         6

                                                       a
of mercury no very great exhaustion as exhaustions go nowadays.

From our approximate knowledge of the temperature in ascending,

we could not be very far wrong in the height at which the density

would be reduced to this. The aurora              such                              very vague

thing, and  I it     so uncertain whether observers widely separated
                 is
are seizing on the same phase of the appearance for their measure

ments, that do not think that great reliance can be placed on

the asserted heights.

I     have never seen luminous fog, much less, an appearance
   I                     a
similar to that remarkable one that Sabine sailed through.
                            ;

                                  a
should suppose         to be discharge by vast number of ex
            a                         a
                                                  is
                  it
cessively minute brushes something like what you see in a tube

exhausted by common air-pump when, as the air slowly let in,

                  EXPLANATION OF A LUMINOUS FOG  879

the discharge previously a reddish soft-looking thing gives place
to a very faint, spider's-web-like luminosity. The current pro

ducing this is only a very small fraction of what it was. I imagine

Ithat the globules of water or spiculae of ice in a mist or cirrus

cloud facilitate this kind of discharge. Hence am not surprised
at the connexion between lunar halos and auroral displays, though

I had not known that the two had been observed to have any

connexion.

   I should imagine the rushing and the quiet aurora to be

analogous respectively to the soft, ordinarily reddish, discharge in

a tube when the exhaustion is pretty good, and to the spider's-

web-like discharge into which the former passes when enough air

has been let in.
I Imentioned
                  think already that Captain Abney had photo

graphed an aurora with some success, and means to try again

when he has an opportunity. I think plates have been made much

more sensitive since the time he tried.

   IThe arches which supposed to be foreshortened streamers

are not those that appear in the north and form the base of a

Iseries of streamers, but the narrow kind extending from east to

west which have seen perhaps twice in my life. In this case

a streamer, being parallel to the dipping needle, would be pro
jected on the visual sphere in a great circle passing through the
magnetic zenith, or vanishing point of the dipping needle, and

Iwould therefore be nearly parallel to the arch.
         said nothing about the parallelism of the streamers to the

dipping needle, taking this as having been already explained by

Reuben Philips and by Plücker.

   I Igot your letter about the pamphlet for Moigno when was

in London for some days. I sent him a copy after my return.
    If my theory of the aurora and its connexion with other

phenomena is subject to no more formidable objections than that

I take the aurora to be an electric discharge, I have not much fear

for it.

     Lockyer told me lately that a paper had been written, or
rather two papers independently of one another, to prove that

the zodiacal light was not, as usually supposed, a cosmical pheno

Imenon, but had its seat in the atmosphere of the earth. He

lent me the paper to read, but have only as yet read a small

part.

380 PLAN FOR PRISMATIC ANALYSIS OF AURORA

                                14 December, [1881].

There are one or two more points to mention.

De la Rue has been examining the spectrum of rarefied air

under various circumstances, and there is a good deal of change in
Ithe lines which come out.  think, but I am not sure, that

he told me that he had got the single line of the aurora. How

ever, the circumstances are in some respects so different that

a difference in the lines which come out is not to be wondered

Iat. mean, that out of a set of possible lines, some come out

under certain circumstances, and others under others, that
                                                 is                                                   are
                                                                   is,
brighter and sometimes the fainter, that those that under the
I                               I is
      I;circumstances are the fainter, become actually invisible. Theis

circumstance that in the aurora the discharge                                                    from air to

air, whereas in a tube we have metallic electrodes in communi

cation with the source of electricity, one difference which might

very conceivably affect the character of the spectrum, as to the

particular lines which would come out strongly.

will mention now, for fear      should forget                                                    it,  that on

Thursday asked Huggins about the spectra of blue components

of double stars. He told me that from what he had observed he

was under the impression that the blue component had lines in

the less refrangible, and the red component in the more re-

fraugible, part of the spectrum, and the late W. A. Miller, who

made the observation with him, had the same impression, but

the feebleness of the light did not allow him to say more.

do not think you would gain much by using a large prism
I

                              A

                                                                                              a
for the aurora. The faintness here arises from the small intrinsic

brightness of the source, not, as in the case of star, from the

smallness of the source.  large prism implies a high magnifying

power, without which the pencil would not enter the pupil of the

eye. Neglecting the loss by reflection and absorption, for a given

purity and given brightness of the spectrum you may have the

spectrum larger, and the apparent breadth of the slit larger,

which might enable you to see very faint lines which you other

wise could not see, the object being narrow as well as faint. But

the same end can be obtained more economically, at least when

once the prism was of fair size, by using two or more prisms.
With two prisms instead of one, you can afford to double the

breadth of the slit without reducing the purity of the spectrum.

You get now the same result as you had doubled your magnify
                            if

RELATIONS WITH PROF. CAYLEY                    381

ing power, and doubled the linear dimensions of your prism, which
would have involved the use of a single homogeneous piece of
glass of eight times the volume.

   IP.S. was near forgetting to mention that on Friday my

great-nephew Willie, Tom's son, was elected to a Fellowship at

Sidney.

Correspondence with PROFESSOR CAYLEY.

     The earlier letters of the following series belong to the period
when Cayley lived in the Temple, and carried on active legal work
as a conveyancer in addition to his mathematical pursuits, when
the Modern Higher Algebra, as it was then called, or Theory of
Algebraic Forms, was being evolved in concert with Sylvester and
Salmon. The letters show Stokes as interested in the general
Analytical Theory of Surfaces, and as in his way the equal of

Cayley in unravelling their singularities. It is possible that, like

his other purely mathematical work, the interest grew out of
physical problems, furnished in this case by the theory of the
Optical Wave Surface for biaxial crystals, and the phenomena

of conical refraction. In turn Cayley gave his attention in a

characteristic manner to the theory of Colour Vision. The oc

casional playful persiflage serves to accentuate the perfect under

standing which obtained between these great representatives of
abstract and physical mathematics. After 1872 Cayley and Stokes
were intimate colleagues in Cambridge.

              Pembroke College, Cambridge,

Dear Cayley,  Oct. 29, 1849.

I had a letter from Thomson to-day, in which he asks
Ime to undeceive you about the Professorship.
                                               beg accordingly
to state that it is I and not my brother of Caius who am Lucasian

Professor. That the Times should have made the mistake is

nothing remarkable, but that the same thing should be done in

the Cambridge Chronicle five days after the election, and with all

the particulars of my brother's name, degree, &c. is beyond the

beyonds. In fact two Cambridge papers out of the three would

have it that the Rev. W. H. Stokes, Senior Fellow of Caius

3«2 ORTHOGONAL SURFACES

College, was the Professor. My brother has had lots of joking

congratu lations.
IThomson and I are at present writing to each other about
potentials.  think that potentials may throw light on the inter
V-pretation of /(# +
                      ly). How horrible you would think it to

prove, even in one's own mind, a proposition in pure mathematics

by means of physics.  Yours very truly

                                             G. G. STOKES.

                                             2, Stone Buildings,

Dear Stokes,                                 2 March, 1854.

             IThe memoir you refer to is suppose the 'Disquisi-

tiones generates circa superficies curvas,' Comm. Gott. recent, t. VI.

You will find the memoir reprinted in the fifth edition (by Liou-

ville) of Monge's Application de VAnalyse a la Oiomitrie, and

some of Liouville's notes to the work are a good deal connected

with the subject. There is a memoir of Bertrand's or Bonnet's,

I am not sure whether it is the one 'Demonstrations de quelques

theoremes sur les surfaces orthogonales ' Cah. 29 or a memoir in

some other recent volume of the Journal Poly technique, which is a

very valuable one, and a great many scattered memoirs in Crelle

and Liouville. Believe me, yours sincerely,  A. CAYLEY.

                                             17 Oct. 1855.

I am certainly wrong, and I believe you are to a considerable
Iextent right about the surface* --but am further than ever from
Iseeing my way to the complete discussion of it.
                                                  find, even

assuming a- > 2b2, b" > 2c2 it is still necessary to distinguish the

two cases a~ + c2 > 362, a2 + c2 < 3&2 and the critical case a2 + c2 = 362,

which probably correspond to very distinct forms of the surface.

I am deeply indebted to you for the suggestion of the problem.

      * The subject of this correspondence was resumed some years later by Prof.
Cayley in a memoir " Sur la surface qui est l'enveloppe des plans conduits par les

points d'un ellipsoide perpendiculairement aux rayons menes par le centre," Ann. di
Tortolini, n. (1859), reprinted in Coll. Math. Papers, iv. pp. 123 -- 133, in which he

remarks that the consideration of the surface was suggested to him some years

before by Prof. Stokes. It appears not unlikely that it presented itself as a possible
optical wave,surface, and that he was in quest of the singularities of refraction

(conical, etc.) associated with it. See Prof. Stokes' letter infra of Nov. 10, 1855 ;
also supra, p. 122.

             SINGULARITIES OF A SPECIAL SURFACE                                383

                                69, Albert Street, Regent's Park,

MY DEAR Cayley,                           Oct. 19, 1855.

                   Next Thursday is to be the meeting of the Council,

and if you can have what you were going to write about Sir W.

IHamilton ready before that time should feel obliged to you.

                                I
                                     I

                                        I
                                             I it,

                                                              it
                                                                a it
Do not give yourself much trouble about for will probably

come to nothing for the reason mentioned.

       have not studied the surface since worked at just at the

end of the E. L* examination, but think have pretty clear
II
notion of       except the way in which the degenerate conical
     I it
points get eaten up when the surface passes towards the form
         I it,
which        assumes when = and a2 > 2c2, which remains to be
                     I
                            it, b
                                     b,
                                     c) c

                                 I
                                                       a
                                                                           is
considered.       got implicitly and in symmetrical form (sym

metrical with regard to a,      the equation of the cuspidal edge,

but had not discussed           and saw how to get the cusps of the

cuspidal edge, when left it.              find lecturing                       nervous work,

and cannot settle down regularly to anything while my lectures

are going on.                                        I            don't think the
     Although the actual cases are numerous,

transitions which need be considered are very numerous; on the

contrary think you will find they are very few. The transitions

at remote parts of the surface may be considered independently.

Thus suppose there was a change of form at one place when

some quantity changed from being greater than to less than                     B,
                  A
                                                               C
and another change of form elsewhere when changed from > D

to < D. We should only have two transitions to consider, but

there would be altogether four cases, namely

                  a>b)          ag<>bd\\  a>b\  ac<<bd\\,
                  c>d)                    c<d)

I      certainly got the double lines not conic sections, but curves

closed like an ellipse or open like a hyperbola according to cir

cumstances but do not know whether looked over my work,
           I      I                       II

              /;      it                        I

                            is
and there may be a mistake in the work.                           have not got the

investigation here,             at Cambridge. For the plane yz found
                                                                               I
                                                                                     I
(at least       have the equation of what think was the curve

mean)                         fryz2 c2z2
                \a2-b, a*-et) _aJU2-ts a2-cs
                  y2            y               i+

                        +             /4

                       * East Indian Civil Service.

384 TRANSITIONS IN SINGULARITIES OF SURFACES

   I think you will find that that part of the cuspidal edge which

belongs to the "crest," when it is so young as not to have changed
its form from what it had at first, has a form like

(with two cusps) when looked down on from the axis of z. There
will be a pair of these, symmetrical with respect to the plane xy.

If while a2 remains > 2c2, b tends to become equal to a, the cusps

run round, meet in pairs in the axis of y, and then disappear ; the

cuspidal edge (this portion of it) changing to a pair of closed
cuspless curves running generally more or less nearly parallel to

the plane yz, and situated one on each side of it.

   The portion of the cuspidal edge which corresponds to the four

                           think, like four little evolutes of
degenerate conical points  iIs,
                                     I
                                            I
                                              I
an ellipse, only of double curvature.  have, think, a clear

notion of the degenerate conical points, but have got to study

the form which the surface assumes when, a2 being greater than 2c2,

b  approaches to c.

   By degenerate conical points, do not mean points, but finite
                           I                        a

portion of the surface which, taken altogether, replaces a conical

point.           a   plane pass always through the axis of x, and cut

    P.S. --Make

the sheet on which the crest lies (the crest being sufficiently
young) and pass first outside the crest, then through the cusp

of the cuspidal edge, and lastly cut the crest. The sectionsI
imagine will be like

     For the section through the cusp the branches meet at an is
angle of 180°, but the curvature at the point of meeting
infinite.

                               INVESTIGATION OF SINGULARITIES                      385

   I Oct. 22, 1855.

        said, trusting to memory, that the double line in one of the

Iprincipal planes might open out like a hyperbola, but thought

afterwards that that would give the curvature in the wrong
Idirection; and I find on re- tracing the curve what had got before
when I was working at
                                       it,that in the plane xz           a figure of
                                                               it
                                           V
                                                                    is
                                                    4
                                                     /                      it

                                                                                     is
curve, like lemniscate, while in the planes xy and yz                                    a
8

         it

                            a
closed oval.                                                             should say
                                                                         I
   If were not for the strength of your assertion
                                                                                I
you were not right about the lines being conic sections.                           back

my curves against conic sections, though                +I  have not my investi

gation by me to look over.
     You get the equation for the plane xz from the equation
                                                               \
gave, namely                                                                   I
                                                             cV
                             z1 by                          a2-c?)'

             U'-6J + o,-cV ~a?{ot-b2
           /

                     y2

by advancing one stage in the order abca... and xyzx....
     These equations and the equations of the plane curves of

contact with the tangent plane drop out as matters of interpre
tation with hardly any work; but my method does not give the
double lines which lie out of the principal planes, although does
                                                            is
give the cuspidal edge.
                                                                   I
feel almost sure that when the crest
                                                                                it
                                                                                       it
I                                                           formed, and from
      II
thence on till the next transition, the cuspidal edge has 20 real

cusps and probably many more imaginary ones.                              think

probable that the total number, real and imaginary, may be 48.
     P.S. -- have just thought of the way of getting the rest of the

double lines, at least think so.
                               I
Dear Stokes,                                                   Oct. 22, 1855.
                                    a
           enclose note on Quaternions                                   have gone on
                                                            I;

                                                                I II
working at the surface, in tracing which had as mentioned to
                                                        c2
you in my last note made some mistakes, but do not find either
                                                         I
any double points or cusps upon the cuspidal line.                       have written

out the whole investigation and made a carefully drawn figure of

the principal sections and nodal and cuspidal lines, and think
                                                                         I         II

now see pretty well the form of the surface in the case which

have considered a2 > 2b2, > 2c2, a2 + > 362.                   shall be very glad
                                       62                   I

                                           it        convenient to you.

                                                 is
to compare results whenever

                                       Believe me, Yours very sincerely,
                                                            A. CAYLEY.

B. b.  I.                                                                   25

386 VALUE AND ORIGINALITY OF QUATERNIONS

Mr Cayley's account of SIR W. HAMILTON'S

                          Quaternions.

     Sir W. R. Hamilton's quaternion imaginaries are a set of
symbols subject to laws of combination different from those of the
ordinary algebraical symbols. Definitions in analysis as in any
other science are not to be considered as arbitrary; they must
satisfy the condition of utility as regards the science to which
they belong, i.e. they must be such as to admit of being made the
foundation of a system of dependent truths the development of
which forms part and extends the limits of the science, and the
interest of such resulting theory is a test of the value of the
definition. The analytical theory of Quaternions is an eminently
interesting and beautiful one, and the beauty is heightened by the
singularity of the subject matter, viz. symbols subject to laws of
combination different from the laws with which mathematicians

have hitherto been concerned. The value of the theory, as a

new idea in Analysis, is very great indeed ; but the problem which
the originator proposed to himself, was, it would appear, to find an
analytical theory applicable to lines in space as they occur in
geometrical and mechanical questions, and there can be no doubt
but that the solution of the problem is contained in the theory of
Quaternions, and that this theory does afford the appropriate

means for the investigation of such questions--some of the

most important and difficult of which are discussed in detail in
Sir W. R. Hamilton's work. Both as a part of Analysis, and on

account of its applications to Geometry and Mechanics, the theory
is one which cannot fail to add fresh lustre to the name of the
Mathematician whose researches have already contributed so much

to the recent progress of Analysis.

                         69, Albert St, Regent's Pare,

My dear Cayley,          Oct. 24, 1855.

          I am greatly obliged to you for your paper on the
Imerits of quaternions.
                         called on you to-day but you were not

at home.

II cannot well compare notes about the surface, for all my
notes are at Cambridge.  left them, I believe, partly for fear

they might draw me off from my proper work, although it is

                NEGATIVE PEDAL OF WAVE-SURFACE                                                             387

queer that fiddling with an Atwood's machine should be more

proper work for a professor of mathematics than discussing a
noble surface. Yet so it for am an amphibious animal with
                       it,
                           is,

                             I

                                   iIf
                                         (I

                                        I
an ambiguous character, at present, a sort of Jack-of-all-trades

and master of none.

The equations of the double lines                                       prefer the term nodal

edges) which gave were the result of course of an investigation,
       I
but did not look over        at least                           did do not know, and
I               aa                                                                                         I
   II
may have made        mistake; but the existence of cusps in the

cuspidal edge was guess, founded however on a potential analysis.

suppose from your words that you have actually made the

investigation.

     should like to finish my investigation, when have time, in
                                                                                  I

my own way before we regularly compare notes.

                                                                                                 Nov. 10th, 1855.I

        write to remind you that when we formerly talked about the
surface you proposed to assume the wave surface of Fresnel as
known, and find the envelope of planes drawn at the several points
in directions perpendicular to the rad. vectors at these points.
You no doubt forgot what you had proposed to do and generalized
the plane problem in a different manner.

                                                                                  Dec. 5th, 1855.

   have looked again at my own solution. Whether contented
I                                                               I

                                                                                        ;

                                                                               I

                                                                                            it

                                                                                                       is
myself with seeing that the equation spoke of had equal roots

or went a step further do not now recollect certain                                                        that
                     I
                           I
the simplest possible differentiation shows that the hyperbola and

principal section do touch.                    have taken your own expressions,

differentiated them, and arrived at the same result. The work                                              is

not quite so simple as mine, but simple enough. You must have

made some slip. Analysis omitted.]
                [

                                            ;
So hurrah for the prow what you said shook my confidence

in its importance, but that confidence                                  now re-established. It
                                                                is
                                                                                    a
appears to be a point of ordinary occurrence, not speciality of

your or my surface.

For the point of section find
                +                                                                --
                                                                                       a2)2 (b2 o")
                              I
                                                                                cHa2-c2)
                                                             '
       (a2 b2-ciy(a?-b2)                                        Z- (62  +
             atia?-?)
                                                                              c2

                                                                                       25--2

388 COMPLETE SYSTEM OF SINGULAR TANGENC1ES AND

The section of the ellipse with the corresponding principal section
is always imaginary, the contact is real when a2 > 2c2 > 62.

     P.S. The mere inspection of a subordinate parameter-figure

Ishows that the cusp points are, as supposed, not like an elephant's

snout.                          Pembroke College, Cambridge,

                                                                April 26M, 1856.

    In practising the methods which I applied first to my and
Ithen to your surface, by trying them in other cases, pitched on
a property of the wave surface which may interest you if it should
be new to you. It would be an elegant one if the quantities

involved were real; perhaps you don't much care about that*.

It is this.

Besides the 4 circles of contact with the tangent plane, and

the 8 imaginary circles formed from these by symmetry, there
exist 4 other plane curves of contact, which are imaginary ellipses,
which are defined by the intersection of a real ellipsoid with

4 imaginary planes through the centre. The ellipsoid spoken of

has the same centre and principal planes as the wave surface, and

the squares of its principal semi-axes are  +                 ^

passes through the real or imaginary conical points in the
principal planes. Call the diameter joining two opposite conical

points (real or imaginary) a conical diameter for the sake of a
name. Take each of the 4 combinations of one conical diameter

from a first and one from a second principal plane. The imaginary

planes passing through the two diameters of each combination
form the four planes in question, and each intersects the third

principal plane in a conical diameter. The intersection of any

Ione of these planes with the wave surface is of course a pair of
coincident imaginary ellipses.  should be glad to know if the

above property is new to you.

        (Undated fragment: probably later.)

...in a general way to those of a quadric surface, though

(in the general case) without the symmetry, according as the
roots of a certain cubic are 3 real or 1 real, is new to me, but
Ithat it may well be without being new to the world.
                                                      must

either give it or refer to it in the paper you encouraged me to

     * The curves of contact are all real on Prof. Cay ley's tetrahedroid (Liouville,

1840 ; Coll. Math. Papers, Vol. i. ; Salmon, Solid Geometry, §§ 573--4) which is a
homographic projection of the wave-surface.

                       LINES OF CURVATURE OF WAVE-SURFACE                                           389

Ifwrite about the lines of curvature of the wave surface.                                           old
I Ishould be obliged for the reference.
                                                               have not found your

paper in the Phil. Mag., but Vols. 33, 35, 39, 43 were taken

out of the U. Library, and I mean to look in the Library of

the C. P. S.

                                                                                    May 1st, 1856.

    Letf(x, y) be a rational integral function of x and y. Is there
any general method of determining whether f(x, y) can or cannot

be split into factors so that

                       f(x,y) = $(x,y)^(x,y),

Iwhere                 are rational as regards x andIy
              <f>,                                          1

        I iff
       have been working again at surfaces notwithstanding my

lectures.              have satisfied myself about cuspidal edges, cusps of

cuspidal edges, conical points, and curves of plane contact, and

also about multiple points in curves, but have still something to

do about nodal edges. Neither multiple points nor nodal edges

appear as singularities in my mode of treatment.

         think          very likely that you are aware of the property
I

    I

                    it
mentioned about the wave surface from having discussed the

corresponding imaginary conical points at infinity in the polar

reciprocal wave surface, though found out in working out the
                         is

                             I

                                            it

                                                   I

                                                                    it

                                                                                  is
lines of contrary flexure, without requiring to know anything about

the polar reciprocal.

The caustic surface      of the 12th degree.                                        see how

to get the equation in this and similar cases without direct

elimination. [Sentence deleted here.]                                                 time
        see was going to tell you what was not true, so
II        +I
to stop.
              b,
                                                                                    June 21, 1856.
                y, c
       find for the leading terms of the equation of the causticx

surface

(dix2                  Vy2+c?z2y

                            -- -- - --{[a2 (62c2)2 a?
                                  +

                                         b2
                                                                y2

                                                               +

                                                                                c2
                                  (c2    a2)2                     (a2 62)2 z2f
                                       c2)2 (c2                a2)2 (a2 62)2 x2y2z%
                         27a2b2c2 (62

where a,               are the half axes of the generating ellipsoid*. This

was obtained by a simple elimination applicable only to infinite

values of x, z.

8,  * Perhaps following upon Cayley's "A Memoir upon Caustics," Phil. Trans.,

May 1856, Coll. Math. Papers, n. pp. 336-380, which treats mainly of caustics of
circles.

390 SEMI-CONVERGENT EXPANSIONS FOR INTEGRALS

Dear Stokes,                                                  2, Stone Buildings,
                                                                  26th Mar. 1857.

            The following equation is true in some sense or other*:

                          . M/l 11 1.31, \

Write ib for b, (i = V-- 1) and then assume b = oo , we have

the second series vanishing on account of the evanescent factor e-1*.
We have then

       If

                     is
                         ^j"
                                 +J"*
-J")or ex'dx = ^dx,                                    j"

where  Ja   d**da;     not of necessity zero        ;  if     were we should have

                                                          it

        fa  ti*dx   =   fa  e*dx         fib  e*dx  = fa    e*dx  i+
                                                       Jib
       Jo              Jib              Jo                             ;I fb
                                     +              I                Jo er&dy

but retaining the term we have

The difficulties are to investigate under what conditions and in

what sense the assumed equation (1)                         true and to find the
                                                       is

                                                              Jf ;
meaning in the particular case of the symbol                         e^dx.

                                                                  a

                                        Believe me yours sincerely,

                                                              A. CAYLEY.

    * Cf. Stokes, Trans. C.P.S. May 11, 1857, reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers,
Vol. iv. (p. 81), for the explanation, on the lines first opened up by Cauohy.

                   SPECIFICATION OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS                                391

                                            69, Albert St, Regent's Park, N.W.

   My dear Cayley,                                                  June 15/57.

                 I Ibelieve told you one thing wrong. Matches to the

   colour-blind would not generally be matches to the normal-eyed,

   but matches to the normal-eyed ought also to be matches to the

   colour-blind.

      If x, y, z be the 3 standard colours chosen, and f, t\, £ the

   elementary sensations (supposed), and

   and for any colour q  x~U{+U'v+U'%
                         y=VZ+V'v + V'%

                         z = W{ + W'v + W'%

                            q = +mT) + n%
                                            + + it ll-              ;
   thent) if if  normal-eyed person judges that
                                                   is                  f
           a             l                  = Ax+By + Cz,
                a                                                               is
   where " = " means " matches,"q                       necessary that

                         = AU + BV +GW                                              (l)r
                         m = AW BV +CW
                                                                                    (2),

                         n = AU" BV"+CW"                                            (3).

   But to colour-blind person the sensation                                         wanting whilef

   and are perceived     it                 sufficient that (1) and (2) be satisfied
   without (3).
                              is

   Dear Stokes,

                    The question * seems to be, do two colours which match

   ifto one colour-blind person match also to another-- not, you may

   define ij, as the sensations which are respectively wanting to
         ,f
              f

                        is
                              a

                                                        Q,
                                                                U,
   three colour-blind persons P,            R, and you may then obtain

   numerical values for the ratios of                               U' &c., i.e. you may define

   your sensations of colour in terms of the blindnesses of three other
   people --which
                   very pretty problem for a physicist. In fact
                                                                                    £)
   to a colour-blind person (who has not the sensation
                                                                                                    if

                   Ax By Cz = A^x + Bty + C^z,
                         +
                                   +

       * Cf. generally Maxwell's letter to Prof. Stokes of 27 Jan. 1857, and the subse

   quent letters, infra, Vol. II. p. teq. See also correspondence with Lord Bayleigh,
   infra, Vol. n. p. 121 and letters to Dr W. Pole, supra, p. 253.
                   :
                                         4

.

392 DEFINITENESS OF THE PRIMARY COLOURS

-- -- --then
        V(A A,) U' + (B Bt) + (G C.) W = 0,
        (A A) U" + (B JS,) V" + (C C.) W" = 0,
i.e. V'W"-V"W : W'U"-W"U' : U'V" -U"V
                                ^A-A1:B-Bl:C-Ol;

and if you take two other people blind to r) and % you have

    VW-VW" :W"U- WU" :U"V- UV"

    VW'-V'W: WW -W'U :=UAV-A-i:UB'V-Bi:C-G.i,

                                  = A-AS:B-B,:C-C2,

whence                   u, V, w

                         U', V, w

                         U", V", W"

are proportional to the first minors of the determinant

                   A-Au B-Bu G-C,
                     A-At, B-B2, C-C,

                      A-Aa, B-B2, G-C,

Thomson would  probably  solve the problem by the theory      of
Potentials.              Believe me, yours sincerely,

                                              June 17, 1857.

Dear Cayley,

        I am afraid your suggestion will not do physically, for

all the colour-blind appear to agree, at least all whose cases have

been accurately investigated. They appear to want the sensation

of that tint purer than mortal ever saw which comes nearest to

carmine red. To them this tint is equivalent to black.

Were different sensations wanting with different individuals,

the physicists would have got hold of it ; they would have deter

mined it, but probably without determinants.

A propos to negative colour-sensations.       Suppose your thumb

placed in a vice, which is screwed tighter and tighter ; you have

the sensation of a pain greater and greater. Pain may be regarded

as a quantity, though its measure by a unit pain may be difficult ;

but what idea have you of a negative pain ?

PROBLEM OF REFLECTION FROM PILE OF PLATES         393

                                                                                                     March 17/58.

     Can you recollect whether we came to any decision as to the
date to be attached to the author's name : was it the date of

reading or the date of the year for which the vol. of the Trans

actions was, or did we let the question stand over* ? You would
much oblige me by a line addressed to 1, Phoenix Place, Black-

heath, S.E.

    I have left Albert St for good.

                   Lknsfield Cottage, Cambridge,

                   Oct. 23rd, 1858.
IIf you are fond of having problems suggested to you here
is one which  have succeeded in solving f. It is to find the

intensity of the light reflected from or transmitted through a

polarizing pile of n plates, taking account of the defect of perfect
transparency of the glass. As physics are physic to you here is
the mathematical problem, or at least one to which it is readily

reducible, containing only so much physics as facilitates the

enunciation.

Light is incident on n parallel mathematical surfaces, by

each of which it is partly reflected and partly transmitted, the

quantities incident reflected and transmitted rbeing say : : 1 : : t ;

it is required to find the intensity of the light reflected from or

I Itransmitted through the n surfaces. need not say that suppose

the light reflected backwards and forwards in every possible way.

     The form of the solution is simpler in the case of perfect

Itransparency, for which r + t = l, than in the general case.

     Dr Sharpey and think we had best submit your table to

the Council.

                   March 26th, 1859.

     There is to be a meeting of the R. S. Library Committee on
Wednesday. Could you make it convenient to meet me at the

R. S. on Tuesday at 10 a.m. that we may see about drawing up

a report about the progress of the Catalogue ? Please address

to the Athenaeum.

     * In the Report of the Brit. Assoc. for the Cambridge Meeting 1856, pp. 463-4,
there is a Report signed by A. Cayley, R. Grant, and G. G. Stokes " of a Committee

to consider the formation of a Catalogue of Philosophical Memoirs." This was
the origin of the Royal Society Catalogue. The Report was drawn up in part by
Prof. Cayley, and is reprinted among his Collected Papers, Vol. v. pp. 546-8, with
a note added, p. 620, in reprinting.

    t Roy. Soc. Proc. 1882; Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. it. 145-156.

394 TABULATION OF BESSEL FUNCTIONS

                                                                                                  Nov. 22, 1861.

     Will you write a short account of Sylvester's doings especially
within the last 10 years such as would be suitable for reading
out when the medal is presented ? Of course it must not be
too technical. Your account is returned to you to assist you.
Please address to Dr Sharpey.

                                                                Cambridge,

Dear Stokes,                                                        21*« March, ...

Your differential equation d1u +-1 -dju-                                iV = y- Supp.

to paper on discontinuity &c., G. P. T. t. XI. pt 2, p. 414*. On
putting therein x V-- 1 for x becomes that of Bessel's --so that

(l --the series of1                                   p.  414,  is  in  fact  tabulated
                              V
             J+                        ;  +
              =  ,             +             &c.^  ,
                                  2n)
              2  (2

pretty completely for the values n = 0, n = 1, and for values of x

0 00 s/-- 1 to 320 V-- 1 in Bessel's paper "Ueber die planetarischen

Storungen," Berl. Abh. 1824.

   I merely mention this in case you should be doing anything

with your equation and should happen to require numerical

Ivalues for the pure imaginary values of x.
         was led to look at your paper by a note from Thomson in

-reference to the equation -~ +                       + n'y = 0, the solutions of

which he wishes to have tabulated. -- Believe me, yours sincerely,
                                                          A. CAYLEY.

                                                                25th May [1872
is
                               is

                                  B
                                                it

                                                                         Q,
                                                                       Q'

                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                 ?].
The theorem      very pretty -- may be stated thus--we may

have on equal circles A,                  two quadrilaterals MNM'N', nvft'v

each the projection of the other in regard to the point which

the mid-point of the common chord, and such that the corre
sponding sides meet in points P, P',
                                                                    which lie on the

common chord. Believe me, yours very sincerely,

             Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. iv. p. 298.

    SEMI-CONVERGENT SERIES                                                395

                                                                                     12th June, 1872.
     Sylvester asks me to ascertain from you or Maxwell " Whether
any or what explanation has ever been given of the loss of half an
undulation which is assumed in the undulatory theory of Newton's

Rings." I presume every dynamical theory attempts to give an

explanation, but that there is not any which can be considered
as a received and admitted one. Believe me, yours very sincerely,

     The formula* is a very interesting  one --I     27th Sep. 1872.
difficulty about it -- in the equation            find however some

^5+55- 2^r/; «",«',< = ,,,1
    1             1.3.6...2n-31

                +
                                                                  ,

    1.3.5...2ra-l       {r^+n3^+&c,-}-

            2nxin-

developing on the right hand e*2 in ascending powers and multi
plying out, the negative powers would disappear and the result be

identically the same as if on the left hand e*3 had been expanded

in ascending powers of a?, and the series integrated term by

term --i.e. the function on the right hand should vanish for
x = 0--but this is unverifiable, viz. writing x = 0 we introduce

infinite terms.

    In the equation

re  re.n --  1  +",  =  a?  +        x*           +                  "'"

1+      3a?             T      3(n-H)

x2 nearly = re the convergence is slow on both sides, and the true

value of a? might, it is conceivable, differ considerably from re : it

would be worth while to calculate a few corresponding values of

n and x.

      Glaisher, when he has done the Bessel functions, is inclined to

take up a table of the Jacobian 0 and H functions^. Believe me,

dear Stokes, yours very sincerely,

   t* Cf. supra, p. 390.
         Of the various reports of the Brit. Assoc. Committee on Mathematical Tables,
that of 1875, mainly on tables connected with Theory of Numbers, is by Prof. Cayley

(Coll. Math. Papers, ix. pp. 401-490). The Committee then consisted of A. Cayley,

G. G. Stokes, W. Thomson, H. J. S. Smith, J. W. h. Glaisher.

396 CENTRO-SURFACE OF ELLIPSOID

                                                                                    8th March [1873?].

You were quite right about the cuspidal lines -- besides the

Iellipses in the principal planes and an imaginary conic at

infinity -- there are 8 imaginary conies (I think said by mis

take 12) which are the loci of the centres of curvature for the
points on the ellipsoid which lie on the imaginary lines through

Ithe umbilici ; each of the 8 conies touches each of the principal
planes, and also the plane infinity-- viz. it is a parabola.                         have

not in the Memoir* used the expression, and did not call the

property to mind yesterday evening.

    I wrote to Dr Sharpey about the Memoir of General Thompson.
I suppose they will hear from him whether there is anything to

be paid for the separate copies. Believe me, dear Stokes, yours

sincerely,

                                                                                Uth Nov.

   I Ithought had seen something about the number of umbilici

-- but have just found it by chance -- Voss, Math. Annaien, t. 9

- -(1875), p. 241 gives the number for a surface of the nth order as

= n (10?i2 28n + 22), instead of Salmon's n (10n2 25n + 16), viz.

Salmon 's number is reduced by 12 (w -- 2), and in the case w = 4 it
is = 280 instead of 304. The only use of this to you, will probably

be that you will have the correct general expression to refer to.

Believe me, yours very sincerely,

                                                                                           26th Sep. 1874

Best thanks. I send the dissertation herewith.

As to the equation -r- (#--)+ -a)y = Of, leading to the
                                    +1

                                             (a:
                                                       .

                                                 I

                                                                         is
                                                                                  n
equation of differences n2un = aun^1 -- un^; or putting l/n2 = Jn,

this un = (aun^                  -- un_2), the solution which gave was             in fact
a solution of this,                 meaning any function whatever of
is                                                                                  --the

               ln
                               ln

solution of the perfectly general equation of differences

                                 Un = &n-- iHn- "t* On-- s^n--2»

contains precisely the same number of terms and                          of a very
similar form -- e.g. we have

                     u,, = 54321m,      5432 b0u0,

54321 has leading term a,a4a2a,a,,
t

    A
                a
    * Possibly " On the Centro-Surfaee of an Ellipsoid," Camb.    Phil.  Trans.                            1873,
Coll. Math. Papers, vm. pp. 316-365.

            note was promised for Messenger Mathematics.
                                    of

SIMPLIFICATION OF MATHEMATICAL PRINTING                        397

     terms derived from this by changing any pair      into bly
djaj into t,,, &c.

terms derived by changing any two pairs ata^, 0,0, into

62, i2, &c.,

and so on --where the expression a "pair" denotes the product

of two consecutive letters,

and so 5432 has the leading term OsO^a?, &c.

                    Believe me, yours very sincerely,

My dear Cayley,                               13th Oct. 1876.

           I write to thank you for your elementary treatise on
Ielliptic functions which have been dipping into. It tempts me
Ito make myself master of the subject, which I regret to say have

not hitherto done.

                    Cambridge,

Dear Stokes,                                  30th Sep. 1880.

I Best thanks for the Mathematical and Physical Papers.

   think the solidus looks very well indeed and is really a great

improvement: it would give you a strong claim to be President
Iof a Society for the prevention of Cruelty to Printers.
                                                               ran

through the volume to see whether you had adopted exp. x

instead of ef: you do not seem to have any exponents com

Iplicated enough to make this necessary or even advantageous.
   think you do not approve of cosh and sinh.

Believe me, yours very sincerely,

                                       A. CAYLEY.

398

Correspondence WITH Sir J. NORMAN LOCKYER,
                              K.C.B, F.R.S.

     A collection of letters written by Prof. Stokes has been sent by
Sir Norman Lockyer just in time for a selection to be included

here. They relate mainly to the work of the Solar Physics
Committee, of which Prof. Stokes was an active member.

                                 Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge,

                                       22nd Nov. 1872.

     My dear Lockyer,

     On Thursday I found your paper at the Royal Society

and read it with much interest.
     I have a few criticisms to make.
     I think the language in which you describe your method will
Irequire some modification. It reads like hailing as a new discovery
what is already perfectly well known.  allude to the localization

of the metallic lines at the neighbourhood of the electrodes.

    I need only refer to the papers by the late Professor Miller
and myself in the Phil. Trans, for 1862. I send you a copy of the

latter by book post. I must explain that the figure at p. 606 is so
far diagrammatic that it is intended to represent the positions only

of the metallic lines; their confinement to the immediate neighbour

hood of the electrodes, especially in the rays of the highest

refrangibility, is described in words. No one who has looked at

the plain spark, without any slit, with a prism and telescope

or even with a prism and the naked eye, no one at least aware of

what Angstrom long ago stated, can have failed to notice the

metallic tufts of light at the electrodes, while the air-spectrum

extends right across, and does not vary from metal to metal.

Miller used a slit close to, but of course not touching, the
Ielectrodes.
              used the spectral image of the spark itself, without

a slit, as in working by fluorescence there is no intensity to spare.

IConsequently was unable to resolve the band-lines (I mean very
narrow bands) of cadmium, &c., into the fine and very close lines
of which they were made up. Miller's figures represent very

Inearly what saw on the phosphorescent screen, the difference

being that Miller's spectra were a little purer, while mine were

CAUSES OF WIDTH OF SPECTRAL LINES                        399

strictly in focus for the spark, whereas Miller's were in focus for

Ithe slit and slightly out for the spark.

      am nearly sure I lately read or heard of some observations

where the observer formed an enlarged image of the spark and
Iexamined that piecemeal.
                               think French was the language, but
Iwhether read it or heard it in conversation with Cornu or
I ICroullebois can't recollect.  will give you the reference if
I Icome across it. Be that as it may, am not aware that anyone

before you has studied the spark in relation to the variation of

length of the metallic lines.

Now as to the more important matter of the substance of the
I Ipaper.
confess see no evidence that for a given temperature

the spectral appearance depends on density of active vapour

present rather than quantity. What we know of absorption leads
me strongly to believe that it depends on quantity rather than

density. Suppose we had two flames of the same temperature,

but one ten times as thick, in the direction the light travels, as

the other, and suppose the smaller flame had ten times as much

sodium vapour in it as the larger ; I expect that as to broadening

the two D lines the poorer flame would make up by its size for its

want of richness.
IThe only evidence
                    can see you bring forward in support

of the opinion that the widening depends on density rather than

quantity, is that of the observation occasionally of a narrow bright

line in the middle of the widened dark line of a solar spot. But

the validity of the inference depends on the assumption that the

quantity of heated gas in the prominence is practically sufficient

to give out all the light that gas of that density and temperature
Ifis capable of giving out, which is by no means clear.
                                                         a thickness

of 1000 miles of incandescent and highly rarefied hydrogen gave

Fa bright little widened, I can quite conceive that 20,000 miles
Fat the same density and temperature would give a bright very

sensibly widened.

   I tried last night roughly the experiment I suggested to you --

that of seeing if reduction of the light would of itself alone narrow

a widened bright line. My dispersion was not sufficient (I used

I Ithe D lines) to allow me to say positively, but certainly as well as
   could make out there was no such tendency as had thought of

to narrow the line. In thinking of the cause I was led to rectify

I(as believe) my former ideas, and to recede from those of Plücker

400 ASTRONOMICAL SPECTROSCOPE FOR ULTRA-VIOLET

I Itowards yours ; but have not at present gone the whole way, and
   have not yet seen evidence that widening depends on density

rather than quantity.

Is there a meeting of the Science Commission on Wednesday?
IThe notice mentions Tuesday only, but thought we were to have
Idiscussed the University position on Wednesday.
                                                  should rather
Ilike to know before leave home (which will be after the delivery

of the morning post) on Tuesday.

                                       23 Dec. 1874.

   IIn your conversation with me you spoke of obtaining photo

graphs of the corona, by which thought you meant of the corona

as a whole, so as to get its shape as seen from different places,
Ibut see from your letter you mean the spectrum of the corona.
IAs to your questions,
                         had better mention principles, and

then you will be able to supply the rest.

    Let AZ be the solar spectrum, A,H being the lines so named
and Z the furthest limit.

Glass is opaque for the more refrangible rays, and with a glass

train you only get about as far as g. The absorption does not come on

at all sharply, so that according as you use thin or thick glass, &c.,

you get a little further or less far.

To reap however the advantage of quartz in one part you

must have quartz throughout, and quartz is of but low dispersive

power.

Speculum metal reflects the invisible as fully as the visible

rays. Silver do. till you get about to s, where there is a rapid

falling off, and from a point about s to z it is hardly more
Ireflective than glass.
                         know no other metal which has this

curious property.

    It does not seem probable that at a distance from the sun the

action will be intense enough to develop a spectrum as long as
that of the sun itself. It is possible however that the solar
spectrum would extend beyond Z were it not for absorption by

the earth's atmosphere. The appearances however are against

the supposition that our atmosphere, when the sun is high and the

sky clear, exerts any great absorbing action on the high rays.

     Silvered glass has a great advantage over speculum metal for a
siderostat in point of lightness, and it is also more easily got

plane. It is very improbable that the small region sz which is

            AND THE LIMITATIONS TO ITS RANGE                                                401

ifsacrificed by employing silver we use quartz,  or at any rate non-
                                                 in any case), will
glass, elsewhere (for otherwise it is gone

signify :--

A

The curve of intensity (as compared with the original intensity)if
after absorption by a certain thickness of glass, may be like that of
the preceding figure*. Suppose OP, the ordinate of Pz, is the7'.
least that will impress itself in the photograph. Then we can
photograph as far as 7. Doubling the area of the objective,
other circumstances being the same, will only carry us from

If7 to

         we use a quartz prism we must be content with low dispersion,

and we use a glass prism we may as well use glass elsewhere and

silver for reflection.

                                                 22 Jan. 1875.

   cannot promise to come to the meeting of the Eclipse
I
         I if

                 it

                          I
                                   iIf I

                                                                                         a

                                                             if

                                                       I
Committee   be held on Tuesday, as have difficult examina

tion paper to get ready which must be done and which have not

yet begun.  can only say will come  can Tuesday should

be the day fixed on.

                                                                                                              25/1/75.

         wrote to you this morning that Main can lend a 10in. and
10 ft. f.l. Newtonian reflector from the Radcliffe Observatory.

     We must take care to marry the observers to their instruments.
Bachelors and spinsters are no good, and would not trust to
weddings contracted on the voyage.
I

             i.
                  is
                                     7

                                           I
     * The dotted line over should meet Pz where the curve crosses it.                      The lower
slanting curve marked as cancelled.                                                           26

         s. b.

402 PREPARATIONS FOR ECLIPSE EXPEDITION

As you can't come on Thursday could you send a list drawn

up thus

         man  object                        instrument
         :--Schuster -- photography of spectrum -- siderostat
Suppose                                                        :

         No. 1 and Lockyer -- reflector.

Such a list should be drawn up as soon as may be, that we

Imay know where we are.
     The observers know of are
   ISchuster, Meldola, Mr B (the photographer we saw, but forget

Ihis name) and Tacchini.
     Those offered that know of are

Winstanley, a fellow of Exeter Coll. Oxford, and Janssen.

I IUnless we can reckon on making the expedition fairly efficient
think we are bound to give it up even now.  mean as soon as

it is ascertained, should such prove to be the case, that it could

not be more than semi-efficient.

                                                                                                  2nd Feb. 1875.

     You wanted to consult me on some point, but had to go before

Iyou could explain what. As time presses will throw out some

considerations on chance of something being useful. With some
of them, perhaps all, you are already familiar.

   I don't know whether you contemplate using two lenses with a
Iquartz prism, a collimating lens to make the rays parallel as they

pass through the prism and then what may call an image-lens,
or one only with the slit and collodion plate in conjugate foci.

   If one only, and if the two focal distances are chosen very

unequal, it is well to place the prism on that side of the lens
which faces the further focus, so that the rays have an approximate
parallelism in passing through the prism.

   IPour fixer les idées will suppose that you use two lenses,
Icollimating, of focal length u, image, of f.l. v, but what say will
Ifapply to one if u, v be the distances of the conjugate foci.

         a be the angular aperture of the mirror, or breadth -=- focal
length, the illumination of the aperture of the slit varies as a2.
This supposes that the collimating lens and the prisms are wide
enough to take in the whole pencil. The larger the prisms the
larger we can afford to make u consistently with taking in the

whole pencil.

   LAWS OF INTENSITY AND PURITY OF SPECTRA                                         403

Let D be the angular dispersion, b the breadth of the slit; then

Length of spectrum x D v.
Breadth of image of slit x b v/u.
t,,run.t,y of,. srpectrum oc .breleant-hgf--thot--o.if--msapgeectrout^m--slpi-t .

           nu                         dispersion

               b          angular breadth of slit '

-Intensity
           of continuous    spectrum  x1                   /wV
                                            a2 . ,=
                                                         bI I.

Intensity  of bright-line spectrum    (-oc a'2       j.

This supposes that the image of the slit is already as broad as

it can be made without confusing the spectrum. Beyond this an

increase of breadth of the slit would merely widen the lines

without intensifying them.

When there is no intensity to spare there is a great advantage

in getting up length of spectrum by dispersion rather than long

focus of image lens. Thus, if we want to double the length, if we

do so by doubling D we get in a bright-line spectrum double

length and double purity with equal intensity (neglecting the loss
by reflection in two prisms instead of one), whereas if we get up

the length by doubling the focal length v, we get the same purity
Ifand only one quarter the intensity.
                                       we have plenty of intensity

to play with this does not much matter, but if it be feeble it

matters a great deal*.

                                                                          2/2/75.

      Except as to compactness, there appears to be no disadvantage

in a smaller ratio than you contemplate of aperture to focal

Ilength of the mirror. The intensity of a bright-line spectrum
gave varying as a'2 (u|v    Now u limited by the size of the
                          )2.

                                            is

                                                                    a
                                                                   is is
prism we may go on increasing u till the prism filled. Hence
;

(a uf may be taken to represent the foreshortened area (A) of the
prism, so that intensity x A/v2 and a slenderer
                                                                        made up for by

choosing a longer u. To keep the same purity the breadth                           b

should be altered on the same scale as u. So that ultimately our

intensity depends on the size of the prisms (with lens or lenses to
match) that we can commend. With a siderostat the prism part

being fixed a longer u of no moment.is

* The laws of purity of spectra were established in general terms by Lord

Bayleigh, Phil. Mag. 1879--80: see also Smith's Prize Question, 1871, in Math.
and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. p. 354.

                                                                          26--2

404 RELATION OF NATURAL RADIATION TO TEMPERATURE

  I 8/2/75.
         should anticipate rather the opposite result from the shortness
of the solar spectrum compared with that of the electric arc. The
hotter an electric current makes a wire the longer the spectrum
and at the same time the brighter a part of the spectrum of low
refrangibility. The curves of intensity would be something like

            1, 2, 3, 4, 5, curves for increasing temperature.

    I would suggest that the focussing rehearsals be done also with

full aperture. For as the focussing is much sharper with full
aperture, the observers if they practised only with the linch might

learn to be slovenly.

   IIn haste as have Smith's Prize papers to look over.

                                    Springfield, Tiverton,

                                               9th July, 1875.
IMy early life was an uneventful one, and have not much to
Irecord.
          was born 13 Aug. 1819, at Skreen, a country place about

12 miles south of Sligo in Ireland. My father was rector of
Ithe parish of Skreen.  remained at home till I was about
I I13 years old, when was sent to Dublin, where attended the
Ischool of the Rev. Dr Wall. In 1835 was removed to the Bristol
ICollege, of which Dr Jerrard was principal. In 1837 entered

Pembroke College, Cambridge, went in for mathematical honours

at the normal time, viz. January, 1841, and came out senior
Iwrangler.
            was immediately elected Fellow of my College, and

Iheld my fellowship till it was vacated by marriage in 1857. A few

years ago was re-elected under a new statute.

IYou are welcome to make use of any of the above facts which
you think of sufficient interest*.  should rather like my two

schools to be mentioned, because an account of me has got into

print which is utterly false in this respect.

    * A notice of Prof. Stokes, by P. G. Tait, illustrated by an engraved portrait
by C. H. Jeans, appeared in Nature, July 15, 1875.

UNIFORMITY OF SCALE IN DIFFRACTION SPECTRA                                  405

                                         Cambridge,

                                                             24 Oct. 1877.

Perhaps you might like to have the formula giving the

deviation by reflection from a grating in terms of e, the interval

from line to line of the ruled scratches, and X the wave-length.

   If i be the angle of incidence, and r the angle of reflection for

the spectrum of the nth order on the side               from  the normal

(i.e. so that r > i) then                               (1)
                              6 (sin r -- sin i) = wX.

The same formula will apply to the other side, i.e. from the spectra

towards the normal, if we make n negative. For example, for the

second spectrum on the side towards the normal we should have

               e (sin i -- sin r) = 2X.

We have from (1) for small corresponding changes of r and X,

Sr and SX,     e cos r .8r= nSX.

                                                        (2)

In consequence of the variation of cos r, the scale is not exactly

the same from end to end of the spectrum, nor is the scale

in the 2nd, 3rd... spectrum exactly twice, three times... that

in the first.

      The scale is practically constant for the small portion photo

graphed at once*; and if we wish to preserve the same scale in

passing to another point of the spectrum the formula (2) shows
that we can do so by letting camera and grating be shifted

together, so as to alter the angle of incidence instead of the angle
of reflection. Moreover in this way the scale for the 2nd, 3rd . .

I Ispectra would be just twice, three times... the scale for the first.
   did not notice this result until after had begun this letter.

      * That depends of course on the field of the camera : perhaps

it may be too great to allow us to say that. By calculating roughly
from formula (1) or by measuring roughly the values of r you

work with, and using a table of cosines, you can see at once what
variation of scale you are liable to.

                                                             20 Jan. 1879.

      The excess of Na vapour is not absolutely proved by the

greater conspicuousness of the D line, nor by the enfeeblement of

the K lines. Supposing there is a considerable difference of

radiating power between Na and K, in favour of Na, then it is
quite conceivable that when the two are mixed together in vapour,

406 EFFECT OF MIXTURE OF GASES ON THEIR SPECTRA

the joint heat may go out mainly through the channel of Na-

radiation. If the K were away and the Na at the same tempera

ture to start with, the Na might be less bright because it would

Ifcool more rapidly, as containing less heat than the mixture.

the Na were away, the heat now going out through the channel

of K-radiation, the K lines might show much brighter than when

the Na was there to cool it.

     Too many words illegible to allow me to gather the sense*.

I return you Dumas's letter.                      27 Jan. 1879.

                              I cannot see that it bears

directly on the question in dispute. For the question observe is

not, Are the elements compound bodies ? But, has any satisfactory

evidence been now obtained that they are compound bodies ?

IYou would, imagine, find plenty of chemists, from Prout down

wards, who would regard it as most probable that they were
I Icompounded.
             may say that, in common suppose with multi
Itudes of others, have long supposed for my own part that they
Iwere.
        have further speculated on the lines obtained in electric

discharges as the most probable source of possible evidence of
their compound nature. At one time I thought the non-com
Imunity, as
             supposed, of the lines with different elements

adverse to the supposition that the lines would furnish evidence

of the compound nature. But when I read what A. Mitscherlich

had done as to the spectra of compounds, giving evidence that

compounds might sustain the heat of the electric discharge

without being dissociated, my hopes revived that evidence might

some day be obtainable of the compound nature of the elements

from the lines in the electric discharge.

But the direction in which these experiments seemed to

indicate that the evidence was to be obtained was that of giving

some dynamical theory from which the vibration-times of a com

pound could be inferred.

     The inference from Mitscherlich's experiments would be that

if the elements are compound, but are not dissociated in the arc,

then the spectral evidence of their compound nature would

involve something at any rate towards a theory of the vibration-

times of compound bodies.

   If they are dissociated, then we should expect to find a com-

        * Prof. Stokes had himself recently taken to a typewriter.

EVIDENCE AS TO COMPOUND NATURE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS 407

munity of certain lines. But in that case surely we ought to
expect to find after continued action of the arc the products of
decomposition in sufficient quantity to enable us to detect the
presence chemically, at least in the case of elements for which
there are delicate means of qualitative detection.

      The fact is that spectral analysis so transcends in delicacy
our chemical means of detection, that the non-detection of im

purities by chemical means does not prove that the impurities
are not there in quantity sufficient to show themselves by spectral
analysis. The only way to answer satisfactorily as it seems to me
the objection arising from the supposition of impurities, if you
depend on chemical analysis, would be to purposely introduce
a quantity of the suspected impurity not too small for chemical
detection, and then show, supposing, which is not likely, that the
fact is so, that the introduction would not account for the pheno

mena observed.

     But if the action of the arc is continued, we might surely

expect that we should be able to give some chemical evidence of
a minute quantity of the products of decomposition.

     Dumas is in favour of the proposition that the elements are or
may be compound, but he has not at present, as appears from
his letter, scrutinised the evidence that you have brought for

ward.

   I don't think much of his argument as to the atomic weights,

because, considering the latitude to be left for errors of determina
tion of the atomic weights, and the large number of elements we
have to play upon, the chances are that we could find trial cases
of apparent coincidence. When elements come in groups with
allied properties in a chemical sense, as chlorine, bromine, iodine,

then if there is also numerical coincidence there may be some

evidence in it.
                                                                                       16 June, 1882.

    I found your letter here on my return from London. I had

learned the principal points in it at our meeting this morning.

    I think a good preliminary trial at any rate might be made

with the large prism of 60° of which we spoke to-day. The

Ifaces were, think, 3 inches square; so that, allowing for the

foreshortening, the pencil going through it and falling on the
object-glass would be about 1-5 inch broad by 3 inches high.
The object-glass would have to be stopped down to about that.

      To get an achromatic image, using the spectroscope of seven

408 USE OF OBJECTIVE PRISM

prisms of 60 for the spectroscope, and the single prism of 60° for

the object-glass, the focal length of the object-glass would have to
be seven times that of the collimator ; and as the latter is 10 inches

the former would have to be 70. You said, I think, it was about

100. This is quite near enough for a trial. The effect of the

difference is merely that the magnifications, say of a spot, in and

perpendicular to the plane of refraction, instead of being equal,
would be in the proportion of 10 to 7. But this amount of dis

tortion would leave the features of the spot perfectly recognisable.

The prism should be mounted in front of the object-glass so

that the refracted beam should be centrical or nearly so. The

object-glass would have to be stopped down to exclude stray light

from the sky. The edge of the prism should be parallel to those

of the prisms of the spectroscope, or nearly so, no very great
exactness being required. The thin side should be turned to the

same side as in the spectroscope, that as in the first prism of theI is,
spectroscope, in order that the prism before the object glass may

oppose those of the spectroscope.

                                                   28 June, 1882.

    In case in the use of the method suggested in studying the

arc, you find the necessity of having the prism covering the object-
glass exactly in the position of minimum deviation practical
                                                   it a
inconvenience, the plan will be to use a collimating lens, or better

compound objective (with its crown lens towards the prism), in
front of the prism covering the object-glass, so placed that the

arc in its principal focus.
is

With the sun, as said, you will have no trouble about mini
                    I

                                        it
mum deviation, as the want of does not interfere with the

goodness of the image, since the incident rays are parallel.

   If the angular width of the arc most convenient for study
    is
             a

                                            is
when the arc a good way off, a simple lens will do very well for
collimator, as with considerable focal length for its aperture the

Ifspherical aberration of a single lens would be insignificant.

you wish the arc near, would be better to use the objective of
                    it
                                    far you get the whole arc in
                         ;

                                is
a telescope. When the arc

a portion of the spectrum when near you get the whole spectrum
in a portion of the arc. For photographing you would more

especially want the collimator lens or objective, as would be

awkward to have  a  portion only of the picture good as to outline
of the object.

TEST OF CHEMICALLY CORRECTED OBJECT-GLASS                        409

                                                                                                     25 Feb. 1886.

   IAfter breakfast at the Athenaeum went to South Kensington,
Iso that did not see your telegram till my return, when I went

to the Royal Society.

   I am sorry to find that your throat is so much worse. This is

very trying weather for a person in that condition. You must

keep to the house while the weather is like what it is at present.

   I I Iam not sorry that went to South Kensington, for have no
Ireasonable doubt that have found the fault in the instrument.
I tried first the object-glass.
                                 Setting at a good distance

a pin-hole in a piece of brown paper, illuminated from behind by

a jet of gas, and holding the eye in the focus, so as to see the

whole of the object-glass filled with light, and then moving

Islightly the head in different ways, could see no trace of veins in

the glass.

     Viewing the image then, with the head a little further back,
through a pocket lens, getting it into focus, and then putting it

Iout of focus both ways, could see no sign of spherical aberration.

As however the glass is chemically corrected, and therefore visually

shows a good deal of colour, the test was not quite sharp, though

Ivery nearly so, this way. So repeated it after substituting for
Ithe gas jet a soda flame, and still could find no spherical aberra

Ition. The correction for s. A. is very good.                    The

        then inclined the glass, to try it for oblique pencils.

form is not quite the best for oblique pencils, but very nearly so,

and there is no objection to be raised on this score.

   I then used a narrowish aperture illuminated by the light

of the clouds reflected into a convenient direction, and covered

half the object-glass, to try the chromatic compensation. The

glass was much under-corrected for colour for the visual rays, as it

ought to be; but whether the correction was just what it ought to

Ibe to produce the best effect had no means of judging by this
observation, as I have not been in the habit of observing the

secondary tint for visual rays that belongs to the best chemical

correction.

    I have no fault to find with the object-glass, which appears so
far as I could judge very good.

    I then went into the observatory to examine the secondary

magnifier. After some ineffectual trials by another method of

illumination, I got your assistant to make the slit narrow, and

410 OPTICAL TESTING OF SECONDARY MAGNIFIER

illuminated it from behind by a lamp. On examining the image,

I found that there was a very large spherical aberration. The

spherical aberration was in fact enormously under-corrected, giving

a very bad image. I took out the second combination, that nearest

Ito the plate, and the form corresponded to the performance. Here

   doubt not lies the fault. Fortunately it is the smallest com

Ipound lens of the lot, so that it would not cost much to get
a proper one.  should think Grubb would do it for 3 or 4 pounds

or less. Why should we go to Paris for a bad article when we

can get a good one in Dublin ? My only doubt is whether Grubb

would be willing to mend the faults of another optician, who

might then get the credit really due to Grubb.

   I looked at a sun spot on one of the plates, and certainly the

definition is very bad.

   If you are not taking photographs whenever you have a day

when the sun shines, and there is no great reason apparently for

doing so, as it is done at Greenwich, I should rather like to have
Ithe second combination here to examine more leisurely.
                                                         need
not keep it long ; but if you are not using it I might perhaps like
Ito wait for sunshine, though I don't know that could do much
Imore with sunshine in the way of examining it than could by
artificial light. It is quite a small thing, and would easily travel

by either letter or parcels' post.

The combination is a cemented one, but there is no particular

advantage in this, as we have abundance of light ; and by not

obliging ourselves to make it cemented we have an additional

disposable quantity in our hands whereby to fulfil the conditions

that are of the most importance.

   I could not get at the first combination without taking the

whole thing to pieces. But it is so close to the focus of the

object-glass of the telescope that its form will tell almost ex

clusively on the distortion and chromatic aberration of oblique

exceutrical pencils, whereas the fault is a want of definition all

over the field. It is evident that the second combination is the

sinner.                                               8 March, 1886.

   I have just heard from Grubb.    He will be delighted to

execute the lenses for me, and promises to send me next day the

Iindices of the glasses he would use.

       fear the edge portions of the field will show much astigmatism

        DESIGNED FOR PHOTOGRAPHY OF SUN SPOTS                                                       411

                                                a
                                                          is
                                                                        is

                                                                        it,

                                                                                               ;

                                                                      I
in my plan, but the centre, and a good way round will, think,

be very good. The plan will be for general picture to stop down
the object glass --the stop may be placed in the cell of the
magnifier--till the best general effect
                                                 produced and when

specially good definition of an interesting spot wished for, to

take out the stop and bring the spot near the centre of the field.

For economy and likewise for convenience of subsequent handling,

the camera might be fitted with a wooden dummy holding plate
                                 if

                                                        a
                                                                                                 a
of say inches square in the middle, and the spot might be
   3
                                    we map series of full pictures
                 it
photographed on this. Even

good throughout, would be handy to have also a series of small

plates, which could be taken up between the thumb and forefinger,

giving the life-history of an interesting spot.

                                                 10 March, 1886.

   was thinking of asking you a question or two with reference
I
to the diagnosis of my patient.
    it
The front lens as told you                      not a combination at all, but
                     I
                                I

                                            is
a simple plano-convex lens.        fancy that the optician thought

that was placed so near the focus of the telescope, did not
                                                      it

                                                                     is
much signify whether  it     were achromatised or not. This

perfectly true as regards the central portions of the field, but

perfectly untrue as regards the outer portions. Thus supposing

we could unite accurately into point the rays of one refrangi-
                                 a

bility coming from a point near the edge -- and that                                                thing
                                                 a
                                                             is
                                                                   a

                                                                     it is !
more easily said than done --still the image of point near the

edge would be linear spectrum about a quarter of an inch long
        a

This surely must give a wide border of blue when the image

focussed on the screen.

      Ifassume that the magnifier was focussed for the spots.
I

were focussed for what was deemed, but in consequence of the

want of achromatism of the first lens wrongly deemed, the edge

of the disk, the spots would be quite out of focus. At least this

might make a sensible difference.

For the central portions, assumed to be in focus, can find
I
                                                                                           ;
                                                     if
                                                     I
                                                        I
                                                                                       it
no fault but that arising from spherical aberration. This think

would quite account for the bad result but this be the cause

shows that the spherical aberration must be very well corrected.

Now don't see my way to doing this without sacrificing some

distinctness in the outer portions.

412 DIFFICULTIES IN MAGNIFICATION OF SOLAR IMAGES

I think it will be worth while to construct my design, even

though there might be a better as regards the average goodness

of the field. It would not be very costly, for the big brass piece

might be retained, and we should merely have to get two identical

combinations and cells to hold them, so as to screw into the main

piece. I think it would be worth while to have such a thing,

even though for general purposes we might prefer to use some

thing else. Its construction would besides be a stepping-stone
Itowards that other something. For the latter we must, think,
Ihave recourse to excentrical pencils and to stops.
                                                     assume

Janssen's photograph that you mention to have been a direct one,

not a magnified image of another photograph. What was the

diameter of the picture, and what the focal length of the

telescope with which, apart from the secondary magnifier, it was

taken ?

    I made some experiments to-day with a view to try a test
I had thought of for exhibiting the general concentration of the
Irays; but in doing so came unexpectedly on so curious and
Ipretty a phenomenon that was led away after that. It exhibits

in a very pretty manner the spherical aberration in the existing

Imagnifier. By pretty, mean in an artistic sense ; for there are

other, and perhaps better methods of exhibiting and detecting the

aberration. It is however a charming thing to look at.

     Unless Janssen's picture was decidedly smaller than ours, or

Ielse taken with a telescope of decidedly longer focus, cannot

Ihelp thinking that a stop was used.

       will sum up with questions.

     1. When the sun was focussed on the screen, was there a
conspicuous blue border, quite too large -- not to mention the
different tints -- to be accounted for by irrationality of dispersion 1

2. Was the instrument focussed on a spot or on the limb ?

3. What, about, is the diameter of Janssen's picture, and

what, about, the focal length of his telescope ?

   I am going to London to-morrow morning.

                                                                                                 12 March, 1886.

     To procure a highly magnified image of a solar spot, even to

Ithe scale of 5 feet to the whole sun, forms think far and away

an easier problem than to get a good picture of the whole sun
of a foot diameter. We only want a microscopic objective of

                EVEN ON THE SCALE OF SINGLE SPOTS                                               413

about an inch and a third focus ; but as the angular apertures of

Ithe incident pencils is so moderate, about 8 degrees, don't think

there would be any difficulty about                  it,
                                                               it
                                                                       is
                                                     and might even suffice

to use a single doublet, or achromatic lens. This would require

to be of about an inch and third focus, which nothing to the

makers of microscopes. It would not be costly, for the cost rises
I

                a

             I
                                          a
                                                  a
                                   it
rapidly as the focus shortens and the angular aperture widens, and

both are so very moderate as microscopes go that                           it                   think all

                                                                             iIs

plain sailing.

         assume that you want only individual spots and their
immediate surroundings. To provide for such high magnification

and at the same time large field would be another matter. It

would be big spot, would not, that would be one-tenth the
diameter of the sun, and for such a field as that, or even fair
                                                                                                a

quantity larger, don't think there would be any difficulty.

    P.S. --You spoke of the small field you would obtain with the
high magnification as an objection. But surely for studying the

history of an individual spot you don't want anything of a large

field. What field do you aim at                      should think a very few
I

                         a

                    I
                                                                                         ?
                                     I

                                                                                             a
minutes would be sufficient.

   have got the indices from Grubb, and mean almost imme

diately to set about the calculation.

   For a single spot would not use the secondary magnifier at

all, but simply microscopic objective, or even a single achromatic

combination to be applied about an inch and third from the

focus of the object-glass of the telescope.

                                                                  14 March, 1886.

   Last night made some measurements of angular aperture &c.
   II
of a small microscope by Merz. The objective was composed ofI

                       4

                I

                             it

                        II
two achromatic combinations, which could be used together, or

one by itself. The latter had a focal length of 1-3 inches, which
                                                                                                it
just about what would be wanted in the plan mentioned to you.
                                                     8                                                is
The angle of the pencil                                        7
                                                                                                           it is
                                                             I
                              took in was degrees, whereas you
would want only -- believe said in my letter, but that was
   slip -- so began to write you a letter thinking the whole thing
a

wonderfully easy. But then felt some misgiving, thinking

was too easy to be sound, and on reflection don't think will do.
                                                     I

In fact, had been going on the notions of geometrical optics,

and considering merely how the rays would go. But this just

414 THE LIMITS OF MAGNIFICATION IMPOSED BY DIFFRACTION

a case in which it is not lawful to consider light as consisting of

rays which follow the paths assigned to them by the laws of

reflection and refraction. It is a case in which we must take into

account the true nature of light, as consisting in undulations, and
Inot neglect diffraction.
                           am afraid that diffraction would stand

Iin the way of such very high magnification as you contemplate.

So far as see at present, the best way to get such very high

magnification would be to take a photograph as large as can be

Igot thoroughly clear, and then take a photographic copy of that

on an enlarged scale. It can only think be done directly, if

done at all consistently with clearness, by the use of excentrical

pencils; and the calculation of the conditions of excentrical
Ipencils is a complicated matter.
                                   mean to make some further

experiments in this direction with direct sunlight.

    A picture of the sun on a moderate scale could easily be
obtained. It was in fact thus that Carrington worked, and there

could be no difficulty in photographing a similar picture.

   P.S. On further consideration I don't think that diffraction

would do more harm than in proportion to the increased size

of the image, that  it is,

                                                   is
                    that the imperfections due to diffraction

would be more magnified than the image itself. In that case

I  think the combination would be worth getting. To get the

field you mention   might be desirable to combine two pairs

of achromatic combinations, as                         commonly done in the

microscope.

                                                       15 March, 1886.

   On further consideration  have arrived at a neat result,
                           I

                                                 is
viz. that the diffusion due to diffraction --observe   I    speak of

absolute, not relative diffusion, not that             proportional to the
size of the image -- varies directly as the breadth of the image

and inversely as the breadth of the object glass. This gives the

extreme attainable sharpness by any optical arrangement however

nearly perfect*.
     For example. Suppose you wish to see the extreme attainable

sharpness for 12-inch picture. You can use either the image in
             a

     * This proposition foreshadowed in the P.S. to the last letter formed the basis
of the fundamental paper by Helmlioltz, " Die Theoretische Grenze der Leistungs-

fahigkeit der Mikroskope," Pogg. Ann. 1874, and also of Abbe's earlier paper of the
same jear. The principle goes back in some measure to Fraunhofer; cf. Lord
Eayleigh, Phil. Mag., June, 1886.

MODE OF EXPERIMENTAL TEST WITH TELESCOPE                             415

the focus of the object glass, or, which will be more convenient if

the telescope be furnished with eye-pieces, take a low-power
eye-piece, and focus it for such a distance as to give a moderately

small image of the sun on a small screen held in the focus.
Suppose this to be say 2 inches in diameter, and that you want to
study the indistinctness, due to diffraction, in a 12-inch picture.
Put a cap on the object-glass with a circular hole of 1 inch
diameter. Then the indistinctness in the 2-inch picture will be
the limit which you cannot pass in a 12-inch picture, even sup
posing the optical arrangement is perfect. To get the unavoidable
indistinctness in a 60-inch picture, you would have to stop down
the object-glass to the one-fifth of an inch, unless you pleased to
start with a somewhat larger image.

     In short, given the quotient of the breadth of the image of
a given object by the diameter of the object glass, the inevitable
diffusion due to diffraction will also be given ; and by getting the
quotient sufficiently high by stopping down the object glass rather
than much increasing the breadth of the image, you may make

the optical arrangement practically perfect, and observe the

indistinctness due to diffraction pure and simple, which cannot be
got over, do what you will. One is thus kept from knocking
one's head against a brick wall in hunting after an unattainable

sharpness.

    I mean to try with a small telescope the amount of distinct
I I Iness which is optically attainable*; but it is only quite recently

   deduced the result have mentioned, and have not yet had
leisure and sunlight to try it.

      Observe that when you view the indistinctness in the
moderately small image you are not to think of the large image
as the small one magnified, indistinctness and all, but are to

imagine only the same indistinctness existing in the large picture,

supposing the optical arrangements could be made perfect.

By comparing also the experimental indistinctness obtained

by stopping down the object glass with the actual indistinctness

in the image thrown on the screen prior to photographing        it,  you

can see whether the distinctness of the latter comes near the

theoretical limit which you cannot pass, or on the other hand falls
greatly short of it. In the latter case the sharpness may be very

greatly improved by stopping down.

* Verifications have been made and described by Lord Rayleigh.

416 CLOCK MOVEMENT ESSENTIAL TO HIGH POWER

   If you had plenty of length at command, there would be no

difficulty in making the optical arrangement practically perfect.
The difficulty arises from the large angular field necessary to give
the secondary magnifier in order to bring the focus within reason
able distance.

     P.S. The chemical indistinctness due to diffraction will be less

than the visual in the ratio of about \0 to XD.

                                               19 March, 1886.

     There is one consideration connected with the very high
magnification which you proposed that perhaps we have not
sufficiently thought of. The scale proposed is 15 times that on

which the actual photographs of 1 foot diameter are taken.

Consequently the light would be only the ^gth part as intense.

Therefore it would require 225 times as long an exposure.
INow don't know what the length of exposure actually given
Ifmay be.
           it were the tenth of a second, the spot with high

magnification would require 225 seconds. In that time any point

of a spot with a magnification such as to make the sun's image

5 yards in diameter would travel on the screen or photographic
plate about 30 inches. In the existing arrangement the length of

exposure of any point of the sun would be the time the slit takes

to travel over its own width. Probably this is much less than the

tenth of a second, but if it were even as little as the hundredth

of a second, still, with the high magnification and the longer
exposure it requires, a point of a spot would travel 3 inches
during the 2 25 seconds of exposure. To get a fairly good image,

Iit ought not to travel more than the hundredth of an inch or so.
         am afraid therefore that without a clock movement, which

the photoheliograph has not got, it would be useless to attempt

such high magnification.

    It might be well to try roughly what the length of actual

exposure is ; but there seems little doubt that some sort of clock

movement would be imperative. The movement ought to be very

smooth, but the rate need not be extremely exact, as the length of

exposure would only be a question of seconds.

X./ OF THE ^                                            417

   UNIVERSITY

              OF EVIDENCES OF CHROMATIC ABERRATION

                                                                                               19 March, 1886.

   I wrote rather in a hurry to you to-night, as we were going to

a concert.

     The length of exposure would have to vary as the [square of
the] magnifying power ; and as the velocity with which the image
moves on the plate varies as the magnifying power, the length of
path on the plate varies as the cube of the magnifying power.

But if you enlarge a smaller photograph, the increased length of

path varies only as the magnifying power.
     Thus suppose you had a picture of a moderate size in which

the path was barely sensible, and that you wished for a picture on
a scale 15 times as great, linear. The path on the picture would

be 15 times as long as in the small photograph. But if you got

up the desired size by photographing at once on the large scale
without clockwork, the length of path would be 3375 times as

Ilong as in the small photograph.

       wrote to Mr Grubb not to trouble himself about answering

Ia question about a microscope, as am sure the plan would not

succeed without clockwork ; and the requirements of the clock

work would be rather peculiar.

                         30 March, 1886.
I Iwent to S. K. chiefly to see the photographs.
                                                    found
I Ihowever that very few had been kept, mean of those done with
the present instrument.  had been thinking of proposing an
Iexperiment; but the photographs contained, which had forgotten,
Ithe very thing had been thinking of trying, and the result was
Ijust what had expected, but showed besides one of two things
Ithat had not thought of, but which completely fall in with

Itheory.
        had been thinking of proposing to try the image of a hair or

Iwire stretched excentrically across the field. I forgot that there

are actually wires so placed. anticipated that though the central
wires show clean, these would show confused. This is a simple
consequence of the want of achromatism in the front lens. Now

Ithe parallel excentric wires are confused, but one thing that

had not thought of was that the side of the image of an excentric

wire towards the parallel central wire was sharply defined, while

the image on the other side trailed off. This is easily explained
by the fact that the strong chemical action in the spectrum begins

s. b. i.                                            27

418 ANALYSIS OF OPTICAL DEFECTS

pretty suddenly, as you travel in the direction from red to blue,
Iand trails off as you go on. Another thing of which
                                                      had

anticipated the existence, but not that there would have been

anything to make it visible, was the radial direction of the

imperfect image. Now this is shown by the white tufts along

the images of the excentric wires. These are doubtless due to

dust on the wires, and they all point radially, not perpendicular

to the wire.

     The images of the central wires on the other hand are very
sharp almost to the limb of the sun, and even there are not much

amiss. Now spherical aberration would tell alike on the centrical
and excentric wires. This shows that the main fault of the

secondary magnifier is the non-achromatism of the front lens.

    This however does not account for all. It would prevent the

definition being good except near the centre of the field, but it

Iwould not prevent it from being good there. In the photographs
   saw there were no spots near the centre, but you told me the

definition was not good even there.

    Now there are I think only three things that would account

for the combination of goodness of the images of the central wires

and badness of the images of the spots. These are

1. badness of the object-glass ;

2. heterogeneous state of the air;

I3. bad adjustment of the wires to the focus of the telescope.

As to (1) the object-glass as well as could examine it seemed

to me extremely good.                for the difference of per
                                     unless indeed there were
     As to (2) it would not account
formance of the two instruments,

something different in the housing ; suppose for instance that

the air in the present house got greatly heated, and the house

was only opened just before an observation, so that the hot air

was streaming out and mixing with the colder air in front of

Ithe object-glass.
     As to (3) suspect after all there is much truth in what the
sapper said. He certainly said it required different focussing to

show the spots best and the wires best.

     But this might quite well have been, even supposing the wires

had been carefully adjusted, in consequence of the expansion or

contraction of the tube due to change of temperature. Suppose

the adjustment had been made perfect at a certain temperature,

CHANGE OF TEMPERATURE REQUIRES RE-FOCUSSING  419

and the temperature then changed 20° F., that would put the

wires about the eightieth of an inch out of the focus of the

telescope ; and as a result, when the wires were brought into

perfect focus on the screen or plate, the focus of the spots would

be about two inches and a half from the plate, and if the wires

had been adjusted when the tube had a temperature of 80° F.,
and the instrument were used when it had a temperature of

30° F., when the wires were in focus on the plate the spots would

be six inches and a quarter out of focus.

   I think for accurate work there should be an easy focussing

adjustment to the wires, and that just before a picture was taken;

provided at least there had been much change of temperature

since the last, the wires should be adjusted to be seen sharply
in focus at the same time with the spots. This would best be

Idone by means of an eye-piece, the eye of course being defended ;

best think by a deep green glass, further reduced in intensity
if necessary by a glass of the usual kind, for the advantage of

focussing with approximately homogeneous light of not too low

refrangibility, as the object-glass is chemically not visually

corrected.

   If I am right in my suppositions, it will not be at all difficult

to get the secondary magnifier to perform well by substituting an

achromatic combination for the front lens.
I Ishowed the magnifier to Grubb.
                                            have brought it back

with me, and mean when sunlight permits to examine it critically

by pencils of the same slenderness as those that actually fall upon

it in its place in the telescope.

                                                                               17 April, 1886.

      One cannot but regret the destruction of the first difference-

engine ever made. I only heard of it a few days ago, being led to

look into the matter by an enquiry made by an Italian savant
about difference-engines, which was sent to Mr Scott at the

Meteorological Office.

    IAdams of Cambridge was astounded when told him yesterday

about 1.30 p.m. that it no longer existed. Before our meeting he
had seen his brother, who told him that when it left King's

College it went to South Kensington, to the exhibition I think ;

and I think still later it was in the South Kensington Museum.

                                                                                                     27--2

420 ADJUSTMENTS FOR ECCENTRIC PENCILS

     Can you find out for me to whose custody it was consigned

when it left the South Kensington Museum*? I think the

history of its fate should be put on record in some accessible
place, for the information of those who may be interested in it
some 40 years hence.

                                                                                         3 May, 1886.

   I don't know whether the telescope of the photoheliograph

has yet been restored to its usual condition. The easiest and
most certain way of making out the faults of the secondary
magnifier would be to observe a star or planet directly with the
eye, the head being nearly in the place of the screen, and the
image being regarded through an eye-piece or a watchmaker's
lens, with the addition of a green or red glass in case it should
be found that the chromatic dispersion arising from the cir
cumstance that the telescope is achromatised not visually but
photographically should be an obstacle to making out the faults
of the image for homogeneous light....

     The want of achromatism in the first lens is of course one

Iobvious fault. But as mentioned, the over-correction of the

astigmatism in the second combination due to the first single

Ilens (the front lens of the magnifier) having too short a focal

length is believe even more serious. But whether it is so is
not an easy matter to say in the detached condition of the

Imagnifier, unless were to get some apparatus specially made.
I refer to the experimental determination ; and the mathe

matical calculations to which those excentric pencils lead are
very laborious, so that having a great many other things on

hand I have not ventured to engage in them.

                                        26 Oct. 1886.

   I am going to London to-morrow, to stay till Thursday evening.
I Iintend to bring with me the secondary magnifier, and propose

on Thursday morning to go with it to South Kensington if it

would be convenient to you to meet me there, and we could try
Iit. should like a morsel of red glass, and a watchmaker's lens
I Ior in default of that an eye-piece.
                need not, presume, bring

these with me.

     * Babbage's unfinished calculating engine is still at the South Kensington
Museum.

ARRANGEMENTS FOR PHOTOGRAPHY OF SUN-SPOTS                      421

IOf course don't mean to try it by actual photography ; but

Ione can tell very fairly what it will be able to do by seeing what
kind of images of the wires it gives;            mean especially the

excentric wires.

                                                 8 Feb. 1887.
IOn returning from London this evening at 6.30, found
Iyour telegram.
                       think the result is extremely satisfactory ; for

you say the definition of the wires is very good up to 6 inches

from the centre. Now that would carry us to the edge of the

sun, assuming the diameter to be 12 inches, which must be near
the mark. Any defect of definition due to the secondary magni
fier must necessarily show itself in the image of the wires,
assuming that you have a transversal as well as a radial wire.

I assume that your telegram refers more particularly to the

transverse, or excentric wire, the one on which we saw the wing
at the R.S. Of course a defect of such a nature that the image
of a point out of the centre should be a radial line, would not

show itself on a wire passing through the centre, but would
necessarily come out in the image of an excentric wire. With
the old front there was a strong wing on the excentric wires even
at their intersection with the central one, that at distance of
                                                 a is,
                                                            a

                                                                         it
   suppose inches or less from the centre.
      So far as could judge by rather rough testing, the object-

glass appeared very good, which agrees with the description of
given you by the optician who made it. With good object-glass
and secondary magnifier giving good definition up to a distance
I

           a
                    4

                 I

from the centre as great as the solar radius, we ought to get good
solar pictures, except in so far as the definition might be inter
fered with by a heterogeneous condition of the atmosphere outside,
or eddies of heated air in the house itself.

will write to Grubb, and tell him of the good promise of the
is,

 I

                                              a
secondary magnifier.

   IfP.S. some slight defect should show itself just at the edge

of the solar picture, and an interesting spot lay near the edge, of
which we wished to get good image in the general picture, that

    without taking a special photograph for that spot, we might

place the sun's image slightly excentric, so as to favour the spot

we cared specially for. It would be only rarely that there would

be important spots close to the edge simultaneously on opposite
sides of the disk of the sun.

422 VISUAL CHROMATIC DEFECT IN PHOTOGRAPHIC GLASS

                                                                                    14 April, 1887.

Thanks for the telegram. You told me that in focussing on

the ground glass you could get at one focus a clear edge to
the disk, and at a different focus, about three inches different,

an imperfect image of a small spot, which was not seen at all at
Ithe first focus.
                   said this was just what spherical aberration
Iwould produce, though felt rather puzzled to account for the

effect, supposed due to spherical aberration, could be so great, for

with the magnifier stopped to a quarter of an inch there was

hardly any spherical aberration from                                    it
o. G. for spherical aberration, and                                        it,

                                                                                 I
                                                                           and had examined the
                                                                        appeared to be very well

corrected.  I  have little doubt now that the result was due to

chromatic aberration. Aberration of any kind would account for

such a result, and as the o. o.                                         chemically corrected there   is
                         if I

                             it

                                       is
                                                    it,
much chromatic aberration, visually, remaining.

In the final focussing   already expressed a preference for

a spot, or the mottling  will show                                          to getting the edge

of the disk clean, but the latter may be used as a near approxi

mation. The effect of the residual chromatic aberration will

be far smaller on the photographic plate, or on the fluorescent

solution of iesculin, or quinine, than                                  it  would be visually on

ground glass, and therefore the best focus for a clean edge would

differ much less from the best focus for a spot or mottling when the

two were examined by photography or suitable fluorescence than

when they were examined visually. The condition of getting the

edge clean will quite suffice to show whether my supposition as
to the cause of previous failures right. But we have a spot,
if                                                                                  if

                 is
                                              is
or else the air homogeneous enough to show mottling, we had

best go by that.

                                                                                    15 April, 1887.

heard this morning from my friend [W.] Kiugsley, who
I
    I

              it :

                                if

                                                                     a
was one of the first,    not the very first, to photograph

microscopic objects, though he did not publish his results. He

found the properties of horse-chestnut bark solution of great use.

He writes

" In the cases of object-glasses in which the blue was left

outstanding very far, and where secondary magnifier was used,

found would have been next to impossible to have got the

focus correct without using some phosphorescent screen."

             EXACT FOCUSSING FOR PHOTOGRAPHY                         423

    He got a holder made in which the plate could be put

somewhat oblique to the axis ; and then when the focus had

previously been found nearly, so as to get the best focus some

where on the inclined plate, the final determination of the place
of the focus was made by seeing what part of the image on the
inclined plate was most distinct.

   I did not know how you worked to get the focus. You wrote

of gradually approaching and of its being a week's work to get
it,

 I
            I if I I

                                         it,
    from which supposed that you took a lot of photographs so

as to feel your way to it. On the other hand you spoke once

of being bound to get the edge of the sun clean on the ground
glass --at least  understood that that was what you meant --

which looks as you focussed by eye.

    thought would let you have Kingsley's testimony as to

the great convenience of using a phosphorescent screen. When
the relation of the best chemical focus to the focus obtained on

the fluorescent screen has been ascertained, think likely that
                                                  I
it  may not be difficult to choose fluorescent screen the focus on
    I                                                         is it
                                               a
which shall agree with the focus required for best photographic
work. But have little doubt that the focus on the quinine or

aesculin stratum will at any rate come very near what we want        ;

perhaps so near that we cannot tell the error.

    P.S. Kingsley says " In the microscope the emerging pencils
                  it
are so very small that with a secondary magnifier the difference:
                            I
between the visible (ordinary) and chemical focus                    very great,

but puzzling as this was found the false light the worst enemy,

ghosts of all kinds appearing."
     He thinks would be well to line any tube used in solar

photography with black velvet. However, we have no tube now,

and the complex combinations in a microscope would be more

likely to be haunted by ghosts than the simpler arrangement

of photoheliograph.
I
        a
          I
                                                                                      17 April, 1887.it

      When said your pencil was about twice as slender as mine,  4
  forgot about the stop, which when in makes about times as
slender, and increases the vagueness of focussing proportionally.a
Hence the estimate, with stop in, would make your mean error
of focussing by means of fluorescent screen about an inch anda

   quarter.

424 BEST SURROUNDINGS FOR A SOLAR TELESCOPE

     But in getting a near approximation in the first instance to
the chemical focus, it might be well perhaps to take the stop out ;
replacing it when the focus has been nearly found, so that it

remains to put the finishing touch ; as the instrument in this case
should be in the condition in which it will be used.

   IThe wind is still easterly, so suppose, notwithstanding our

own glorious weather, you cannot do much there on account of

the smoke of London. We are nearing the time when the east

winds take their departure.
                                                                              13 July, 1887.

Sunday morning's post brought me the photographs which
Iyou were so good as to send.
                                          looked at them then and
Isince. As far as can perceive, the photographs with the trial

aperture indicate nothing in the object-glass that would account

for the observed imperfection of definition in the secondary image.

The various trials seem pretty well to exhaust other sources of

error, and leave it to waviness in the air. I should think the

Isurroundings of a telescope have much to say to this when it is
a question of taking the image of the sun.  imagine that a grass

field might be the best locality for a telescope intended for sun

observations, and that flags, pavement or gravel about it would

Ibe bad, as tending to produce ascending currents of heated air.
   don't know what may be the nature of the gound immediately

about Janssen's observatory. You will know, as you have been

there.

     The appearance of the trail leads me to think that it is likely

Ithat the point had in view in suggesting the aperture might

be better tested by an aperture of a different form, see enclosed

figure, like a very broad excentric slit rounded off at the ends.
IThe length of the slit, if such may call it when the diameter
                                            I should propose instead
is say 1-5 inch, is placed equatoreally.

of taking images with the clock going to take trails with the

clock stopped. The focus would be altered just as before, the

object-glass being capped during the alteration of focus, which
would make a little break in the trail, and would show that an

alteration had taken place, and the light of the star being allowed
to act long enough to give a trail long enough for comfortable

examination. It need not of course be long for that. The point

would be to see whether the distribution of light at the two sides
of the focus would be similar.

PRECAUTIONS AGAINST EXTRANEOUS LINES IN SPECTRA 425

IAs to the spectra, the impression would get from a general

examination of them is that the bulk of the lines were due to

some very common element or elements. The true platinum

lines are distinguished by showing themselves only close to the

electrodes, a consequence of the very sparing volatility of

platinum.

    But if this be so, where did the numerous lines come from

that are shown even in the spectrum from platinum elec
trodes ? May it not have been from very fine dust ? Clifton told

Ime that in working with -- forget now whom --they found that

they could not work with two elements on the same day. The

air of the laboratory got so impregnated with dust from the first

that was used that it would persistently show itself in working

with the second.

Now would it not be well for controul to test the thing in

this way ? Let the electrodes be arranged for sparking, and then

enclosed in an envelope smeared inside with glycerine, except

over a small space left for a window, where we want the glass to

be clear. Passing a few sparks to knock off any dust that might

be sticking to the electrodes, let the whole be left at rest for say
24 hours at least, and then spark and take a photograph. Or else

if it can conveniently be arranged to make the envelope air-tight,

exhaust the air with an air pump, and readmit it very slowly, passing
it through a tube well stuffed with cotton wool, so as to filter the

Iair that gets in, and let this process be repeated three or four
times.     need not say that this would have no tendency to get

rid of impurities, if such there be, contained in the platinum
Ifitself.
           the platinum should have been fused in a vessel of lime

or plumbago, it is likely enough to contain as an impurity a little

calcium or iron.

   I Ihad best suppose leave the photographs for you at the
IRoyal Society when am going there, or at any rate the spectra,

Ifor don't suppose you want the other back.

     P.S. Perhaps you know the elements to which the non-

Iplatinum lines in the photographs are respectively due.
         do not think that the solar corona can be referred to an
atmosphere resting gravitationally upon the sun ; still less, that
its equatoreal extension can be referred to centrifugal force.

    First, if we had a mass of gas extending as far as the corona,

426 PROJECTILE NATURE OF THE SOLAR CORONA

and resting gravitationally upon the sun, even if it were hydrogen

its pressure at the surface of the sun would be something gigantic.
Its density would correspond, only of course its temperature

would be excessively high, and therefore the density not so great

as might at first sight appear. Now a comet at its perihelion

passage got so near the sun that it must almost if not quite have

Igot within the photosphere, and yet it was not arrested, nor if

rightly recollect notably retarded.

Secondly, as to the equatoreal extension of the corona, this

cannot be referred to the effect of centrifugal force in a gravita

tional atmosphere. For at the earth's surface the ratio of the

centrifugal force to gravity at the equator is only about 1/289, and

at the sun's equator the corresponding ratio is about 150 times
smaller. Hence the disk is sensibly circular, and even at a

distance from the surface of the sun as great as his radius the

oblateness of a level surface in a fluid mass resting gravitationally

upon and revolving with the sun would be about 20 times as

small as the oblateness of the earth ; so that the effect of the

centrifugal force may be neglected altogether.

     Thirdly. The photographs of the corona indicate a structure
quite inconsistent with the idea of an atmosphere resting gravita

tionally upon the sun.
     Doubtless the corona indicates the presence of matter. But

Ithat matter take it does not form an atmosphere resting hydro-

statically, though it may be greatly disturbed, upon the sun, but
rather is in a dynamical condition, so that any small portion of

this matter is to be regarded as, so to speak, a projectile.

   If different elements show their bright lines extending to

different heights from the sun's surface, and as a rule those of

Ihigher atomic weight extend less high, that is not, take due
a

           ;

                                            is

                                                             a

                                                               I

                                                                                               it,
to any effect of gravitation effecting a separation by difference

of specific gravity. If you mix carbonic acid and hydrogen, and

leave the mixture to itself, the carbonic acid will not settle to the

bottom, and the hydrogen collect at the top.    think the

most probable explanation that the different elements require

different temperatures to keep them in the gaseous form, those

of higher molecular weight as rule requiring a higher tempera
ture and when they are condensed into liquid or solid, forming

mist, they can no longer give out their characteristic bright

lines. Then again some when they get far enough from the sun

STRATIFICATION OF SOLAR ATMOSPHERIC SPECTRA  427

to be cool enough may enter into chemical combinations, when
they would cease to give lines, or would give a different system.
And even of those that remain in the gaseous state, the tempera
ture required to make them show their characteristic lines might
be different in different cases, so that on this account again there
might be a difference in height at which different elements ceased
to show their lines.

                       9 Dec. 1887.

I am not sure quite what your ideas are with reference to
Ithe tails of comets.
                       am disposed to accept, as the best theory
I know, your supposition that the incandescence of that part of
the whole comet -- the very nucleus, with perhaps a portion of the
root of the tail -- which as the spectrum shows is self-luminous, is
due to collisions. I do not think that the collisions take place all

Iover the space where the self-luminosity appears, but mainly at

the centre of the nucleus. Nor do think that there is any need

to invoke electrical currents to keep up the luminosity. Nor do

I think that the tail consists of meteorites, unless you call dust or

mist finer than the finest Krakatoa dust which is supposed to

have produced the glows, and to have remained in suspension for

a couple of years, meteorites. The strong polarisation of the light

of the tail of a comet proves that the luminosity of the tail is

in great measure if not wholly due to the reflected light of

the sun.

   I think the telescopic appearance shows that we have to deal

with jets of gas from the nucleus, which, whether it be in its

original state of gas, or in the state of excessively fine dust or
mist into which it is afterwards collected, is acted on by repulsion

Ifrom the sun, probably, as first so far as know suggested by

Sir John Herschel in his Cape Observations, an electrical repul

sion, and so driven away from the sun into space with a velocity
which soon becomes enormous. A portion of the gas which is

near enough to the nucleus to give the spectrum of glowing gas,
does not follow the head as it appears to do, but consists of gas

which is moving away with very great velocity, but is continually

being renewed, so that it appears to be stationary relatively to

the head, though the actual matter of which it is composed is
receding from the head with a very great velocity. Though it

may be a good distance from the centre of the nucleus, the

428 NATURE OF COMETS' TAILS AND THEIR SPECTRA

interval of time which has elapsed since it quitted it is but short,
so that it has not yet cooled down sufficiently to lose the tempe
rature, or rather the internal molecular agitation, which enables
it to show a distinctive spectrum, but on getting somewhat
further from the head it becomes too cool for that.

    The difference between your view, if I rightly understand it,
Iand that have endeavoured to give an idea of, is that you think

that the luminosity must have been produced where it is seen,

whereas I think the luminous gas is moving away from the head

so fast that it can retain its temperature, or a temperature suffi

cient to make it luminous, to a good distance, a distance which
however would be got over in a comparatively short time.

   IP.S. In case you should wish to make anything clearer,

may mention that your paper has not yet been sent to press, and

if you write at once to Lord Rayleigh, to Terling, you will be

in time.

                                                                                 26 May, 1890.

IAt the Royal Society soirée intended to have called your

attention to one of the exhibits, but you passed on into the crowd,

Iand was pinned to the door. It reminded me of what you told

me a good while ago of having once seen the sun green through
steam that was issuing out of the steam pipe of a steamer on Loch
Katrine. You probably saw Mr Shelford Bidwell's experiment on

the effect of electrifying an issuing jet of steam, but I do not
Iknow whether you noticed the effect to which wanted to call

your attention. You must have seen the somewhat orange colour

of the shadow of the cloud, but I do not know whether you noticed

that sometimes, just at the first moment of turning on the

electricity, a faint greenish shadow replaced what had previously
Itbeen no shadow at all.
                          is to be shown again at the ladies'
soiree, so that if you did not see it at the gentlemen's you will

have an opportunity of looking out for it.

                                                                                                                     3 Oct. 1892.

    You have I dare say had a paper from Prof. Johnson, of

McGill University, who quotes you as having in print ignored the
fact that Newton himself fully described the method of forming a

Ipure spectrum by a slit and lens combined with a prism.

    For my own part was well aware of this, but I was not aware

that Newton had been robbed of the credit that is his due by

several writers.

            ORIGIN OF THE SPECTRUM OF SODIUM              429

                                      16 Feb. 1894.

     Some years ago you showed me at S. K. an apparatus with

Iwhich you made a remarkable experiment. As well as recollect
Iit was this :-- A glass vessel, or as may call it bulb, connected

with some kind of air pump (Sprengel?, Mercurial?) was partly

filled with sodium, and repeatedly evacuated after passing an

Ielectric discharge, the sodium, as was forgetting to say, having

Ibeen previously warmed (I think so) each time. At last the
Idischarge ceased to show the D line.
                                      don't think have it
Iquite right, for you said think that what was now in the bulb

over the sodium (I forget how examined) could be shrunk up into

nothing.

    Would you kindly tell me where this is published, if published

it be ? I think it ought to have been published.

                                      16 April, 1898[4].

Thanks for the photographs taken in the late eclipse. You

have been very successful with the chromosphere; the sun half
could of course be obtained at any time. It shows however how
Igood the former must be; at least if may assume that there was
Ithe same width of slit for the two.
                                      notice that a few of the

bright chromosphere narrow bands have what appears to be a very

narrow line of reversion in the middle, which appears, in some

Icases at least, to be a prolongation of a dark line in the solar
spectrum.   may perhaps be going to London on Monday; at
Iany rate am to go on the 29th, to stay till next day.
   I am afraid my memory is very imperfect as to the experiment

I Imentioned. The chief thing seem to remember about it is an

apparently paradoxical result of mercury running up, when it was

allowed to do so, so as to fill the bulb where it was to be expected

Ithat there was gas, hydrogen think.

                                      24 Feb. 1894.

II think your papers in the Proceedings (vol. xxix., pp. 140, 266)
very important.  have read the part containing the results

several times over, having in my head the question of their

interpretation, and nearly every time fresh light seems to break
in on me.

    The supposition that D is due, not to sodium NaNa, but to

INaH, removes think some serious chemical difficulties in relation

to flames.

430 SOLAR CORONA AGAINST LIGHT OF SKY

   I have had some correspondence with Professor Smithells

about flames, and it was out of this that my question to you grew.

I wrote to him last night suggesting what seems to be a crucial

experiment.

                                                                                         9 April, 1894.

   I IWhen wrote this morning forgot to answer your question

about sodium. I am in correspondence with Smithells about this

and some other questions. One experiment has been tried which

is favourable to the supposition that what gives the D line is

sodium, and not a hydride, but one or two more are projected
Iwhich are likely to be decisive.
                                   may be able perhaps to tell
I Iyou on Saturday. When say decisive, mean as to the question,

metal or hydride ? Whether the so-called element sodium is or is

not a compound, and if a compound whether hydrogen is one of the

constituents, are speculative questions which remain as they were.

Troost and de Hautefeuille (I think that is the name of the

second chemist) seem to have proved the existence of a definite

alloy of sodium and hydrogen, answering to the formula NajH^

(See Watts's Dictionary of Chemistry.) The sodium absorbs

about 237 times its volume of hydrogen to form its compound. All

the hydrogen can be got out by heating in a Sprengel Vacuum.

                                                                                 30 May, 1895.

Most certainly I join in the entertainment to Cornu.

                                                                                                                   21 Dec. 1895.

   IAs you have seen several total solar eclipses, should be glad

of your opinion on one point.
     Is the amount of scattered light (which may be judged of

by the amount of illumination of the dark moon) sufficient to
make it a matter worth caring for whether in taking a picture of

the corona (without seeking to get the very faint remote portions)
the corona has to contend with twice, instead of only once, the

intensity of the scattered light?

   I ask with reference to an experimental arrangement which
I suggested to Turner as an alternative to the one he was thinking

of. The arrangements would be much simplified if we might

disregard the difference between twice and only once the scattered
light as tending to obscure the corona.

            FLUORESCENT SPECTRA AND SOLAR PHYSICS               431

                                             30 Deo. 1895.

     Have you seen a paper by Eilhard Wiedemann and G. C.

Schmidt entitled "Fluorescenz des Natrium- und Kaliumdampfes
                                                          "     It is of
und  Bedeutung  dieser  Thatsache  fur  die  Astrophysik     ?

immense importance in relation to solar physics. It opens up the

possibility of quite a new explanation of some of the phenomena.

                                                                                                   7th Sept. 1896.

   I Iwill read the chapter of your Chemistry of the Sun when

Iget access to it. But have been going about and out of the way

of books.

     My notion of the nature of the formation of the prominences

has long been that it is much like what (according to my notion)

Icyclonic disturbances are in the earth's atmosphere (at least as to
the origination of the latter).    imagine that the cooling by

radiation in the upper strata of the sun gradually brings about a

condition of unstable equilibrium on a large scale, and masses

of gas from the intensely heated interior break through. They

ascend like a bubble in water by gravitation, but on account of

the gigantic scale on which all takes place the velocities of ascent

are enormous.

     Have you seen a paper by Mr David E. Parker in the

I"Photogram" of July? Unless the thing be a mare's nest (and

from the statements made don't think it can be) it is enormously

important.
     I am on my way from Ireland and am going to Lord Kelvin's
Iin the first instance.
                         am going to the Liverpool meeting of the

British Association.

     P.S. The paper of D.E.P. relates to photographing the corona
without an eclipse.

                                                                                               29 August, 1896.

     Thanks for your paper re total eclipse of 1893. As to No. 15,

my idea of the nature of the prominences is not that which I

should naturally express by the words "are fed from the outer
parts of the solar atmosphere," but is perfectly compatible with

Iwhat you tell us of the lines. From their forms, and all know
about them, I believe them (the prominences) to be masses of

incandescent gases which are violently ejected from the sun,
rapidly shot up to a great height, where there is an approach to a

432 THEORY OF SOLAR PROMINENCES

perfect vacuum, and then fall down again towards the sun by
gravitation. The cooling by expansion and radiation, though
absolutely speaking the gases would still remain intensely hot,
would render possible the formation of compounds which could not
exist in the chromosphere, as they would there be dissociated, and
that, even in the few minutes, as it may be, which have elapsed

Isince the first expulsion of the gas.

        think the solar atmosphere, if by that be meant the gas

which rests by gravitation on the sun as our atmosphere does on
the earth, extends, in any sensible degree, only a relatively small
distance from the surface of the sun, but that masses of gas are
forcibly projected far above this, and then return by gravitation,
meanwhile expanding more or less, though in such enormously
extensive portions of gas the expansion requires a time we should
not at first have been prepared for.

                  APPENDIX.

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION, 1899.

          UNIVERSITÉ DE PARIS.

     L'Université de Paris est heureuse de vous apporter aujourd'hui
ses félicitations et de saluer en vous un Maître éminent de la
Physique mathématique et de la Philosophie expérimentale.

     Dans votre longue et féconde carrière, si dignement parcourue,
vous avez hardiment abordé les questions les plus difficiles de
l'Optique, de l'Hydrodynamique, de la Physique solaire et terrestre,
et vous les avez résolues avec un égal succès, donnant ainsi
l'exemple si rare de la puissance mathématique alliée à l'habileté
expérimentale.

      L'Optique vous a très souvent attiré. Vous avez suivi dans
leur marche les rayons lumineux réfractés dans les corps cristallisés
ou réfléchis par les métaux.

      Vous avez traité le problème fondamental de la Spectroscopic
Avant vous, les effets mystérieux de la fluorescence semblaient
échapper à toute loi ; vous nous avez appris la relation qui existe
entre les vitesses des vibrations de la lumière émise et de la
lumière génératrice. Vous avez appliqué votre analyse pénétrante
au calcul de l'aberration de la lumière. Vous avez étudié les
causes de la rotation du radiomètre. Vous avez heureusement
contribué à l'exploration du Soleil par la photographie de la
couronne solaire et par la mesure du rayonnement solaire.

      Les phénomènes compliqués de l'Hydrodynamique ont attiré
votre attention : vous avez su définir l'effet retardateur du gaz
ambiant sur le mouvement du pendule, et calculer le coefficient
de correction dû à la résistance de l'air.

      Récemment encore vous avez contribué à élucider les singu
lières propriétés des rayons de Roentgen, en les assimilant à des
séries d'impulsions isolées, bien différentes des vibrations pério
diques qui constituent la lumière ordinaire.

     En vous remerciant, illustre Maître, de vos beaux et nombreux
travaux, nous émettons l'espérance que vous ne cesserez pas d'en
accroître le nombre, et que vous continuerez à enrichir la Science
de nouvelles découvertes.

      Girard, Le Vice-Recteur, Président du Conseil de l'Université.

      E. Lavisse, Le Secrétaire du Conseil.

s. b. i.                            28

434 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

  UNIVERSITATI CANTABRIGIENSI CANCELLARIUS
    MAGISTRI ET SCHOLARES UNIV. OXON. S.P.D.

      Libentissimo animo delegatos nostros ad Universitatem vestram
hodie mittendos curavimus qui vobiscum venerabilem atque
omatum virum Georgium Gabriel Stokes ea qua par est obser-
vantia salvere jubentibus partem habeant. Necdum nobis animo
excidit quibus laudibus nuperrime simus prosecuti grandaevum
virum Baronem de Kelvin, et ipsum a Cantabrigiensium Academia
profectum, scientiae studiis ac philosophiae naturali etiam nunc
felicissime incumbentem, ita ut credendum sit Naturam ipsam,
matrem benignam atque praeceptricem, antistitum suorum et
interpretum quasi immortale ingenium servare neque senio ob-
noxium neque laboribus defatigatum. Quo fit ut nos quidem
utriusque studia in re diversa consimilia reputantes par uobile
fratrum dissociare nequeamus. Quippe quinquagesimus jam nunc
agitur annus ex quo vir insignis Georgius Gabriel Stokes, summos
honores atque amplissima praemia in Academia vestra tempestive
consecutus, scientiae mathematicae Professor Lucasianus creatus
est. Quam quidem annorum seriem (longam illam quidem et
multis fetam miraculis) quibus investigationibus, quantis illus-
travit inventis ! adeo ut nulla non in orbis terrarum parte inter
se certasse videantur doctissimorum virorum societates, tam
illustrem alumnum ordinibus suis adscribere cupientes. Quem si
cum antiquioribus philosophis comparare licuerit, nunc quidem
Archimedis discipulum habetis, rationes mathematicas ad rem
physicam adhibentis, nunc Lucreti interpretem, qui magistri sui
commenta de luce solis et vapore planius ac dilucidius expediverit,
dum momenta illa describit

                    Quae quasi cuduntur perque aeris intervallum
                    Non dubitant transire, sequenti concita plaga;
                       Suppeditatur enim confestim lumine lumen,
                  Et quasi protelo stimulatur fulgure fulgur.

Illustri viro ac de universa fere scientia optime merito salutem
nuntiamus amicissimam.

Datum in domo nostra Convocationis die tricesimo mensis Maii
A. S. MDCCCXCIX.

                UNIVERSITY OF HEIDELBERG.
    Q. B. F. F. Q. S. -- Viro illustrissimo nobilissimo Baroni Georgio

Stokes, qui ante quinquaginta annos Cathedram Lucasianam
Matheseos in illustri Universitate Cantabrigiensi adeptus ac per
unum lustrum Regalis Societatis Londinensis pro scientia naturali
promovenda praesidis munere functus doctrinam mechanicam

            ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                       435

hydrodynamicam opticam mathematicam per totam vitam excolvit,
qui bis terve dignissimus illustrissimi Newtonii successor nova
lucis iuvisibilis vestigia visibilia in corporibus fluorescentibus
experiendo comprobavit, qui spectro Newtoniano per lucem elec-
tricam clausum campum lato limite patefecit, seni suavi simul ac

venerabili, quo die continuam tot annorum felicitatem cum Uni-

versitate urbeque Cantabrigiensi concelebrant quicunque mathesi
philosophiaeque naturali favent, nos decanus senior ceterique
Professores ordinis physicorum in litterarum Universitate Ruperto-
Carola ex sententia congratulamur ac bona fausta felicia omnia
comprecamur, cuius gratulationis testimonium hanc tabulam esse

voluimus.

            Ernestus Pfitzer, h. t. decanus.  H. Rosenbusch.
                                              Otto BOtschli.
            Leo Koenigsberger.                W. Valentiner.
                                              Theodor Curtius.
            Georgius Quincke.
            Adolph Stengel.

P. P. Heidelbergae, die I mensis Iunii, a. mdcccxcix.

            UNIVERSITY OF ST ANDREWS.

The University of St Andrews gladly avails itself of the
opportunity afforded by your jubilee as Lucasian Professor of
Mathematics in the University of Cambridge, to tender to you
its sincere congratulations and to assure you of the grateful
respect in which you are held in Scotland by all who are ac
quainted in any degree with your career. The chair rendered
illustrious by the immortal Newton has during your long occu

pation of it acquired new glories, and signal proof has been
furnished by you during the last fifty years of the value to the
community of a life devoted to the study of pure science.
The oldest University in Scotland is naturally interested in
the honours with which your life is crowned, since it numbers
with pride among its former students and Professors such men as
James Gregory, John Leslie, David Brewster, Balfour Stewart,
James David Forbes who worked with success in some of the

fields  in   which you   have laboured and reaped      much fruit.
        is  the earnest  wish of the University that  you may continue
    It
to have health and strength for many years to come in which to
remain the ornament and glory of your ancient University.
    In name and on behalf of the University of St Andrews,

            John Birrell, M.A., D.D., Clerk to the Senatus.

The University, St Andrews, 1st June, 1899.

                                                       28--2

436 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

                  UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW.
    Sir,--We, the Senate of the University of Glasgow, desire to

offer you our hearty congratulations on the auspicious occasion of
celebrating the Jubilee of your Professorship in the University of
Cambridge. We would express our admiration for that rare
combination of mathematical power and experimental skill which
has enabled you during the last fifty years to achieve such
brilliant success in unfolding to this generation the mysteries of
the physical world. Nor are we unmindful of that insight by
which you have penetrated the veil of outward things so as to
behold with the eye of faith the spiritual basis of the material
universe. We recall with gratification and pride that more than
half a century ago our predecessors, influenced by a testimonial
from your pen, appointed to the Chair of Natural Philosophy here
one whose name has been a tower of strength to this University,
and whom we have much pleasure in sending along with the
Principal to convey to you personally our felicitations.

     Signed and Sealed by authority of the Senate,

                       William Stewart, D.D., Clerk of Senate.

       26th May, 1899.

                  UNIVERSITY OF ABERDEEN.

     Pergratum revera fuit litteras accipere ex quibus rescisse gau-

demus festum celebratum iri in honorem Viri Illustrissimi Georgii

Gabrielis Stokes, Baronetti, Praelectoris quondam paullisper in hac
nostra Academia Aberdonensi, quem ad fastigium Scientiarum in
Newtoni Cathedra Professoria pervenisse constat. Proinde, ut fas
est, ex animo gratulamur Universitati Cantabrigiensi Collegioque
ipsius Pembrochiano propter saeculi dimidium sub tantis auspiciis
feliciter exactum. Aberdoniae, Kal. Jun. a.d. mdcccxcix.

                 UNIVERSITY OF STRASSBURG.

     Viro nobili Georgio Gabrieli Stokes Libero Baroni Professori
Academiae Cantabrigiensis Socio et Praesidi Collegii Pembrokiani
artium liberalium magistro iuris utriusque honoris causa doctori
scientiae naturalis honoris causa doctori, qui indefesso labore
fertili ingenio felici eventu per plus L aunos rerum naturae
cognoscendae deditus earum rerum quae ad lucem pertinent
causas occultas ante ceteros dilucide perspexit, ea ratione atque
ea experientia quo modo lux in variis corporibus in varios colores
varie distribuatur investigavit ut per ea studia hoc ipso tempore

                   ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION               437

nova et mira de lucis radiis invenire licuerit, quae in sonitu
corporumque liquidorum motibus incognita latebant nullo deter-
ritus obstaculo rationibus subiecit, ex mathesi maius firmiusque
auxilium rerum naturalium cognitioni petiit, Kal. Iuniis anni
mdcccxcix festum diem celebranti quo die ante hos L annos
Cantabrigiae in Matheseos Cathedram Lukasianam evectus munus
Academicum auspicatus est, fausta omnia precatus congratulatur
et hoc signum reverentiae esse voluit Ordo Physicorum Uni-
versitatis Wilhelmae Argentinensis.

                       Prof. Eduardus Schaer, M.D.,

                                          h. t. Decanus.

Dab amu s id. Maiis mdcccxcix.

SENATUS ACADEMICUS, UNIVERSITY OF
                       EDINBURGH.

    Sir, -- We, George Chrystal, and George Frederick Armstrong,
Professors respectively of Mathematics and of Civil Engineering
in the University of Edinburgh, have the honour to approach you
as the Delegates appointed by the Senatus Academicus of the
said University to attend the celebration of your Jubilee, for the
purpose of tendering their cordial congratulations on this auspicious
occasion and of expressing their genuine appreciation and ad
miration of your signal services to the advancement of Science.
The brilliant success which has attended your attacks upon many
of the most abstruse problems of Pure Mathematics finds its
counterpart in the remarkable results produced by your strikingly
original Physical investigations; and the Senatus Academicus
recognise that this twofold series of scientific triumphs was possible
only for one who unites the highest mathematical genius to
unique skill as                              Permit us,   Sir, to make
special reference  an   experimentalist.  the " Critical  Values of the
                   to  your papers on
Sums of Periodic Series" and the "Numerical Calculation of

Definite Integrals and Infinite Series," as embodying some of the
most important improvements which mathematical methods have
received with a view to their adaptation to Physical questions ;
and in the domain of Physics to your epoch marking treatment of
Hydrokinetics and the Dynamics of Elastic Solids, and to your
magnificent researches on the Undulatory Theory of Light, on
Fluorescence, and on the Foundation of Spectrum Analysis. In
virtue of these and many other grand contributions to Higher
Intellectual Progress you have not only won a pre-eminent
position amongst living men of Science, but have made good your
claim to be hailed as the Newton of the Nineteenth Century.
The Senatus Academicus are furthermore sensible that the

influence which you have exercised during your long tenure of the
Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics has been one of the most

438 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

efficient agents in the creation of that splendid school of Natural
Philosophers of which the University of Cambridge is so justly proud.

     Nor can they forget that as Gifford Lecturer in the University
of Edinburgh you have published two important volumes on
Natural Theology which strikingly exhibit its relations and
analogies to experimental studies, treat of Evolution and Teleo
logy and their moral and spiritual bearings in a profound and
suggestive way, show how the findings of Science throw light
on many religious difficulties, and make manifest the unreason
ableness of a facile acceptance of Materialism or a summary
rejection of the Supernatural.

    In the name of the Senatus Academicus we congratulate you
on the approaching completion of your fiftieth year of office, in

a spirit of devout gratitude that to one so endowed so long a
period of active service should have been vouchsafed by the
blessing of Providence ; and it is our earnest prayer that a
lengthy term of years may yet await you in which you may
continue to extend the frontiers of Science for the benefit of
mankind, and to your own and your country's lasting honour.

                       G. Chrystal, Prof. Math.
                         G. F. Armstrong, Reg. Prof. Engineering.
      lit and 2nd June, 1899.

                 TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN.

                       (Illuminated with Celtic ornament.)
     Nos Praepositus et Socii Seniores Collegii SS. Trinitatis iuxta
Dublin gaudentes tibi gratulamur quod quinquaginta annos in
cathedra Lucasiana feliciter complevisti. Quanta cum laude hoc
praeclaro tuo officio Academico functus sis, hic dies festus, hie
concursus virorum illustrium satis demonstrat. Neque in tua
Universitate tantum, sed etiam in Societate quae dicitur Regia,
primum socius, deinde ab epistulis, postremo praeses, scientias
fovisti, et multorum qui naturae secreta indagabant ingenia
stimulasti, direxisti, adiuvisti. Omnibus adeo ubique qui disci-
plinis mathematico-physicis operam dedere notum est quanto cum
fructu multa in rerum natura investigaveris, quantum praesertim
lumen, ut ita dicamus, ipsius luminis origini et propagationi
attuleris. Praecipue autem nobis Hibernis gratum est tnemorare
te in hac insula esse natum, a stirpe propter ingenium et doctrinam
iamdiu inter nos insigni, in hac urbe elementis litterarum imbutum,
ab hac Universitate corona honoraria ornatum, et in hanc nostram
societatem Academicam susceptum. Itaque senectutem tranquil-

lam, faustam, felicem tibi, Vir clarissime, ex animo optamus et

precamur.
       Dabamus in Coll. SS. et individ. Trin. iuxta Dubl.
          pridie Kal. Iun. post Chr. nat. anno mdcccxcix.

                            ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION    439

LA R. ACCADEMIA DE' LINCEI DI ROMA.

     La R. Accademia de' Lincei è ben lieta di associarsi alle onoranze,
che Vi son rese da ogni parte del mondo civile nelle feste giubilari
del Vostro ingresso quale professore in codesta alma Università

cantabrigiense. E se da un lato essa cosi obbedisce ad una

consuetudine di cortesia, bella ed anche doverosa verso uno

scienziato eminente che è decoro dell' albo accademico, dall' altro
sente che le sue gratulazioni in occasione tauto solenne Vi spettano
di pien diritto, perchè assai pochi possono vantare come Voi titoli
cospicui per essere annoverati fra i seguaci più schietti de' fini e
de' metodi ai quali si inspirarono i fondatori dell' Accademia
Come Galileo, il più illustre degli institutori dell' Accademia
de' Lincei ; come Newton, del quale ereditaste degnamente la
cattedra, avete saputo conciliare la indagine geometrica la più
squisita coll' abilita sperimentale la più rara : onde i Vostri lavori
sono riconosciuti quali modelli insigni dall' universale e resisteranno
al tempo. Senza entrare in una recensione minuta delle Vostre
ricerche sull'idrodinamica, sulla variazione della gravità alla super
ficie terrestre, sull' equilibrio e sul moto de' corpi elastici, sulle
radiazioni luminose basterà che qui si ricordi la classica Memoria
sulla diffrazione, dove per la prima volta l' Ottica fisica ha ricevuto
per opera Vostra un assetto meccanico semplice e rigoroso;
Memoria che sarebbe sufficiente da sola a rendere immortale il
nome del suo Autore. Pertanto niuna meraviglia se tutti i cultori
de' buoni studi ed in particolar modo i cultori della filosofia
                            in questi giorni con grato animo il loro pensiero
naturale  Ivl oslgaoluntoo  che Vi manda l'Accademia de' Lincei, prova che
a Voi.

non distanza di spazio o diversità di favella possono attenuare
l' ammirazione per la Vostra nobile vita tutta consacrata all' in
cremento della Scienza.
                            Il Presidente dell'Accademia,
                            Eugenio Beltrami.

             THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.

    Dear Colleague, --We the President, Council and Fellows

of the Royal Society of London rejoice in being able to offer to
you our heartiest congratulations, on this happy occasion of the
celebration by the University of Cambridge of the fiftieth year of
your holding the great historic chair of Lucasian Professor of
Mathematics.

     We are bound to you by a double tie. Had you been simply
a follower of Science, not a Fellow of our Society, we should have
still looked upon you as belonging to us. We exist for the

440 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

Advancement of Natural Knowledge, and to this your life has
been devoted with signal success. For more than half a century,
you have again and again shed light upon the secrets of Nature ;
you have by your genius illumined the dark places of light itself.
We are proud of, and grateful for, your work. But you are drawn
               us by another bond.        You
yet closer to                             two   have been so long a
Fellow of the  Society that if you live        more years, as we trust

you will, we shall be able to celebrate another jubilee, that of your

admission among us.

     For no less than one and thirty years you held the office of
Secretary to the Society, and so great during all that time was
your zeal on our behalf, that with our gratitude for your long
service is mingled the reproachful thought that, if thereby the
researches of others were made more fruitful, the world may have
been robbed of something which you otherwise might have done

yourself.
For five years you filled to our great content the office, we
may without vain-glory say the high office, of President of our
Society. As President you sat in the chair in which once sat the
greatest of Cambridge men ; and this is not the only way in which
you have followed him. We call ourselves the Royal Society of
London ; but at our birth we in part belonged to Oxford, and from
the first we have again and again joined hands with Cambridge.
We recall with pride that Isaac Newton belonged to Cambridge
and to us, and we feel a special joy in doing honour to-day to
                     in so        of the             of the  author of the
one who has    trod         many          footsteps
" Principia."

     Wishing you all your heart's desire, We remain your loving
Colleagues, The Fellows of the Royal Society,

                                               Lister, President.

L'INSTITUT DE FRANCE: ACADEMIE DES SCIENCES.
                 (accompanied by the Arago Medal.)

     Monsieur Stokes, --LAcademie des Sciences de l'lnstitut de

France, qui s'honore de vous compter parmi ses correspondants les
plus illustres, est heureuse de s'associer aux hommages que le
monde savant vient vous rendre a l'occasion du cinquantieme
anniversaire de votre professorat dans la chaire Lucasienne de
Cambridge.

      LAcademie, en vous priant d'accepter une medaille d'or a
l'effigie d'Arago, desire remettre en vos mains un temoignage tout
particulier de la haute estime en laquelle elle tient vos travaux,
etudes magistrates sur la mecanique des fluides et sur la lumiere.
Elle ne saurait oublier vos belles recherches sur le changement de

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                       441

reTrangibilite- de la lumiere, les vues profondes que vous avez
emises sur l'absorption de la lumiere, et sur les relations de ce
phenomene avec la réflexion metallique ou avec l'emission de
radiations lumineuses nouvelles, et enfin l'enonce de cette loi, qui
porte votre nom, et qui, dans les phenomenes de fluorescence,
reconnait des mouvements dont la frequence ne d^passe jamais
celle des mouvements excitateurs.

     L'Academie, admirant la vigueur toute juvenile d'une intelli
gence qui, apres une carriere aussi longue et aussi belle, continue
a rester a la tete du mouvemeut scientifique, fait les vceux les
plus ardents pour que, longtemps encore, la science conserve un
guide aussi pre-cieux.

                                  Le De%6gu4 de VAcad&mie des Sciences,

                                         Henri Becquerel.

THE IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF BERLIN

           sent a diploma of full-fellowship of the Academy.

     Auspiciis Serenissimi ac Potentissimi Guilelmi Imperatoris
Germanorum Borussiae Regis Academiae Scientiarum Borussicae
Protectoris Clementissimi Virum Illustrem suisque titulis con-
decorandum Georgium Gabrielem Stokes Regiae nostrae Academiae
socium declaramus eumque honore, privilegiis, beneficiis Academi-
corum ordini concessis rite ornamus. Cuius rei ut plena fides
existat, ex decreto Academiae in acta relato hasce litteras sigillo
nostro publico et subscriptione consueta munitas expediri iussimus.

Hermannus Diels, classis phil.-historicae secretarius

   perpetuus.

Arth. Auwers, class, phys.-math. seer, perps.
Johannes Vahlen, class, phil.-historicae secretarius

   perpetuus.                              secre

Guilelmus Waldeyer, classis phys.-mathem.

   tarius perpetuus.

Berolini die 22 Maii anno 1899.

                         YALE UNIVERSITY.

     The Corporation and the Faculties of Yale University respect
fully acknowledge the receipt of an invitation from the Senate of
the University of Cambridge, to take part in the celebration, in
June next, of the Jubilee of Professor Sir George Gabriel Stokes,
Baronet. They desire to express their thanks for the opportunity
of offering their congratulations on occasion of the commemoration
of so rare and notable an academic event; and they cordially

442 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

unite with scholars throughout the world in an appreciative
recognition of that brilliant series of researches, extending over
a period of fifty years and upwards, and touching nearly every
department of Mathematical Physics, by means of which the name
and the fame of Professor Stokes have been securely established
and new renown has been added to the ancient University in the
service of which his life has been spent.

                           Timothy Dwight, President.

                       Franklin Bowditch Dexter, Secretary.

       New Haven, Connecticut, March 7, 1899.

THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

Sir, --The American Philosophical Society, founded by
Benjamin Franklin, has commissioned me as one of its Vice-
Presidents, to convey to you on this occasion of your Jubilee
year, its warmest congratulations, and at the same time to express
to you its admiration for the great extent and the profound
scientific character of your labors in original investigation, es
pecially in mathematical physics. From the date of Foucault's
experiment in 1842, in which you were the first to discern
evidence of the connection between the sun's composition and
that of the earth, down to 1898, when your theory of pulses
afforded the first rational explanation of the Rontgen rays, your
investigations have profoundly influenced our views in aether-
physics and have laid the foundation of much of our present
knowledge in this direction. May the hand of time deal most
kindly with you in the years to come, to the end that science may
Ibe enriched still more by the results of your marvellous insight

into the mysteries of Nature. With profound respect have the
honor to remain very truly yours,
                                   George F. Barker.
Philadelphia, May 15«A, 1899.

     Prof. Barker also presented an address from the University of
Pennsylvania.

             ROYAL ACADEMY OF GOTTINGEN.

    Hochgeehrter Herr Jubilar!

             Wo immer physikalisch-mathematische Forschung und
Lehre eine Heimstatte gefunden haben, wird der Tag, an dem Sie
auf eine fiinfzigjahrige Lehrthätigkeit zurückblicken, mit Gefuhlen
der Bewunderung und der Dankbarkeit begriisst werden. Zu
den Huldigungen, die Ihnen heute von fern und nah dargebracht
werden, drangt es auch die Königliche Gesellschaft der Wisseu

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION  443

Schaften zu Göttingen, ihre herzlichsten Glückwünsche zu fügen ;
dürfen wir Sie doch seit nunmehr fünfunddreissig Jahren zu den

unsrigen zählen.
     Der Name Stokes ist uns vertraut, seit uns in den Anfängen

unserer physikalischen Studien zum ersten Mal jene reizenden
Erscheinungen entgegen traten, denen Sie den Namen gaben.
Die Erforschung der Fluorescenz bildet eine Ihrer schönsten und
fruchtbarsten Leistungen, ein klassisches Vorbild einer Experi-
mentaluntersuchung, ausgezeichnet durch die sinnreiche Verwen
dung der einfachsten Hülfsmittel, durch die vollständige Berück
sichtigung aller Einflüsse und Beziehungen, durch die Klarheit

der Anschauungen, die Einfachheit der Resultate. In der That,

wenn wir die weitere Entwickelung der Lehre von der Fluorescenz
überblicken, so müssen wir sagen, dass kaum etwas hinzugefügt
ist, was über das von Ihnen gelegte Fundament hinausgeht.

     Zur Zeit aber, als jene preisgekrönte Arbeit veröffentlicht
wurde, lag schon eine mehr als zehnjährige Periode eifrigster und
erfolgreichster wissenschaftlicher Thätigkeit hinter Ihnen. In
allen Ihren Arbeiten bewundern wir die Freiheit, mit der Sie

über das Rüstzeug des Mathematikers verfügen ; zuletzt aber sind
es doch die physikalischen Fragen, auf welche das Interesse sich
concentrirt. So schon in den ersten Arbeiten, welche Sie veröf

fentlicht haben ; Sie behandeln darin fundamentale Fragen der
Hydrodynamik, eines Gebietes, dem Sie Ihre Neigung während
Ihrer ganzen wissenschaftlichen Laufbahn bewahrten. Sie be
gnügen sich aber nicht mit allgemeinen theoretischen Resultaten ;
vielmehr wird die Rechnung immer so weit geführt, dass die
Natur Antwort geben kann auf die Frage, ob die Grundannahmen
der Theorie zutreffend seien oder nicht. So kommen Sie, ohne

die entsprechenden Arbeiten Poisson's zu kennen und auf einem
einfacheren und allgemeineren Wege, zu der Einführung der
Reibungsglieder in die Differentialgleichungen der Hydrodynamik.

Auf den speciellen Aufgaben, die Sie im Anschluss an die Grund

gleichungen behandelt haben, beruhen Methoden der experi
mentellen Forschung, die noch heute von Bedeutung sind.

     Aber nicht bloss auf die Grundgleichungen der ganzen Theorie
war Ihre Aufmerksamkeit gerichtet, auch die specielleren Theile
der Hydrodynamik haben Sie durch zahlreiche Arbeiten erweitert
und vertieft, so vor Allem die Theorie der oscillatorischen Welle
und der Einzelwelle, die Lehre von den gemeinsamen Bewegungen
der festen Körper und der Flüssigkeiten.

     Die Gleichungen der Hydrodynamik führten Sie hinüber zu

den verwandten Gleichungen der Elasticitätslehre. Dass Sie Ihr

Wissen und Können bereitwillig in den Dienst allgemeinerer
Interessen stellten, davon zeugt die Arbeit über den Bruch von
Eisenbalmbrücken, in der Sie die Wirkung des fahrenden Zuges
auf die Biegung der Brücke so anschaulich dargestellt haben.

     An die Grundgleichungen der Elasticität auf der einen, der

444 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

Hydrodynamik auf der anderen Seite knüpfen sich Ihre Unter
suchungen über die Natur des Aethers, über die Aberration des
Lichts. Sie betreten damit das Gebiet der Optik, welche Sie, von
der schon erwähnten epochemachenden Leistung ganz abgesehen,
durch eine solche Fülle von Arbeiten bereichert haben, dass wir
nur Weniges hervorheben können. Wir erinnern an Ihre Arbeit
über Diffraction, in der Sie jene wichtigen Differenzen von Diffe
rentialquotienten eingeführt haben, die wir jetzt als den Quirl
eines tonischen Vectors bezeichnen ; wir erinnern an Ihre Arbeit
über die Zusammensetzung des natürlichen und des polarisirten
Lichtes, an die schöne Untersuchung über die Brennebenen
gerader Linien, die durch eine doppelbrechende Krystallplatte
gesehen werden. Was die Optik an sicherer Erkenntniss gewonnen,
das haben Sie in den Burnett-Vorlesungen ebenso klar wie ein
dringend einem grösseren Kreise zugänglich gemacht. Über das
Gebiet der Physik hinaus zu den fundamentalen Fragen der
menschlichen Erkenntniss vordringend, haben Sie Zeugniss dafür
abgelegt, dass auch für die wissenschaftliche Arbeit die schönste
Frucht auf dem ethischen Gebiete liegt.

    In der Lehre von der Leitung der Wärme und der Elektricität
verdanken wir Ihnen die Zerlegung des allgemeinen Ansatzes in

die beiden Theile mit symmetrischer und mit antisymmetrischer
Determinante, eine Zerlegung, deren Bedeutung immer mehr
hervorgetreten ist. Die Strömungsvorgänge in krystallinischen
Mitteln haben Sie durch die Einführung des Hülfskörpers auf die
Vorgänge in isotropen Körpern zurückzuführen gelehrt.

     Über so Manches, was Sie zu der Lehre von der Gravitation,
zur Kenntniss des Radiometers beigetragen haben, gehen wir
hinweg, um noch mit wenig Worten Ihrer Leistungen auf mathe
matischem Gebiet zu gedenken. Sie schenkten uns das bekannte
Theorem über die Gleichheit eines Randintegrales mit einem
Flächenintegral, das mit Ihrem Namen bezeichnet worden ist.
Sie klärten uns darüber auf, wie eine Superposition stetiger
Wellenlinien eine sprungweise sich ändernde Linie darzustellen
vermag, indem Sie den so wichtigen Begriff der ungleich mässigen
Convergenz eingeführt haben.

     Hochgeehrter Herr Jubilar ! Wenn Sie an dem heutigen Tage
auf Ihre wissenschaftliche Laufbahn zurückschauen, so wird dies
mit einem tiefen Gefühle der Dankbarkeit geschehen ; Sie waren
Zeuge der wunderbar schöpferischen Kraft Faraday's ; Sie hatten
Maxwell, Lord Kelvin zu Genossen Ihrer Arbeit. Sie haben die
unmittelbare Realität erlebt, zu der Hertz die Maxwell'sche
Theorie erhoben hat. Sie blicken auf diesen Siegeslauf der Physik
zurück mit dem Bewusstsein, dass es Ihnen beschieden war, an
dieser Entwickelung als der Ersten einer Theil zu nehmen, dass
Sie zu der Schaar der Geister gehören, von denen das Wort Plato's
gilt:

                AafiirdSia e^ovrei hiahäxrovaiv aXKrfkon.

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION  445

     Moge die Freude an dem Errungenen, die Lust zum Schaffen
Ihnen noch lange bleiben, moge der freundliche Strahl der Sonne
noch lange Ihrem Lebensabend leuchten !

  Die Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen.

      Ernst Ehlers, d. Z. Vorsitzender Sekretar der k. A. d. W.

       THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS AND
                     SCIENCES, BOSTON, MASS.

     The American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, Massa
chusetts, acknowledges the great honour of the invitation of the
University of Cambridge to participate in the Jubilee of Sir
George Gabriel Stokes, Bart.

     The Members of the Academy desire to express their deep
sense of his great services to Mathematical and Physical Science ;
for it can be truly said that he has illumined these subjects by his
genius : and his opinions in these branches of learning have been
universally considered final. Such distinction is supreme : and
demands the homage of men of Science in America. The Academy
regrets that it is unable to send a representative to Cambridge :
and trusts that this acknowledgment of the life service of Sir
George Gabriel Stokes to science may sufficiently express its great
interest in the gathering of men of science to honour one who has
contributed in such high degree to make Cambridge University a
remarkable centre of Mathematical and Physical Science.

                 Alexander Agassiz, President.
                  Samuel H. Scudder, Corresponding Secretary.

       Boston, 10 May 1899.

                      COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.

      The Trustees and Academic Staff of Columbia University in
the City of New York, join me in extending to you most hearty
congratulations on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of your
installation as Professor in the University of Cambridge.

     The whole scholastic world rejoices with your renowned In
stitution in celebrating an event so rare as the completion of a
half century of continuous and eminent service in the advancement
of learning. And particularly worthy of such commemoration
does this event appear to the smaller body of workers who are
devoted to the mathematico-physical sciences, and who are more
intimately acquainted with the numerous contributions to know
ledge which have distinguished your career.

446 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

      A name so conspicuously identified with all the important
advances made since the epoch of the illustrious Lagrange,
Laplace, Poisson, Green, Fresnel, and Cauchy, in the theories of

hydromechanics, physical geodesy, wave motion, and light, com
mands the admiration of men of all nationalities; but especially
are Americans, who inherit with you the language and the
traditions of a common ancestry, delighted to render their tribute
of profound esteem on the occasion of your academic jubilee.
      Whiathppytheancnoirvdeiraslargyr,eetIinbgesg  which Columbia
this                                                  to express the  extends to  you on
                                                                      hope that   science

may continue to be enriched by your activity for many years

to come.                                            Seth Low, LL.D., President.

      May 1, 1899.

                  UNIVERSITY OF PRINCETON.

      We, the Faculty of Princeton University, send our most cordial
congratulations to the University of Cambridge on the auspicious
occasion which marks the completion of fifty years of distinguished
and honoured service by Sir George Gabriel Stokes, Bart., as
Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge.
We recognize the value of his finished and masterly contributions
to science, which have so honourably maintained the reputation
of his chair and of your ancient University. We recognize also in
him those fine qualities of character which have made him eminent
not only in the world of science but also in social and public life.

     We hope that a representative of our body, who will be subse
quently named and commissioned, will convey to you in person
our felicitations and will unite with you in the jubilee to which
we have received your invitation. We trust that his presence
will promote those relations of sympathy and affection which were
manifested by you through your distinguished representative at
our recent Sesquicentennial Celebration.

             In behalf of the Faculty of Princeton University
                                Francis L. Patton, President.

     Nassau Hall, Princeton, New Jersey.

                           May 1st, 1899.

IMPERIAL MILITARY ACADEMY OF MEDICINE, ST
      PETERSBURG, accompanied by diploma of election
     as honorary member of the academy.

     On this solemn day, when the University of Cambridge cele
brates the anniversary of your fifty years' glorious activity as a
scientist and teacher, the Imperial Military Medical Academy of
St Petersburg beg you, its highly esteemed honorary member, to

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION  447

accept their most cordial congratulations, and express the hope,
that your numerous disciples and friends may have the benefit of
your profound knowledge and great experience for many years to
come.

                         President, Pashutin. Secretary, Dianine.

         BATAAFSCH GENOOTSCHAP, ROTTERDAM.

     Sir,--The Bataafsch Genootschap der proefondervindelijke
Wijsbegeerte in Rotterdam delights to gratulate Sir George

Gabriel Stokes, for the celebration of the most memorable day in
which he remembers the nomination before fifty years to the
Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics in the University of
Cambridge.

    It is not in our way to remember the long list of the most

remarkable mathematical and physical researches which you
completed in this period. We may be permitted to declare that
your labor advanced greatly the science and does honor to your
country.

     The Bataafsch Genootschap feels very obliged to you for the
great honor by counting you so many years among its members
correspondents, and hopes that it will be given to you to perform
still many years in the interest of science.

                 F. B. s'Jacob, Praeses magnificus.

              G. J. W. Bremer, Director and first Secretary.

               ROYAL ACADEMY OF BELGIUM.

     The Royal Academy of Belgium sent a diploma of nomination
as Associate Member, signed by

                Le Directeur, W. Spring.
              Le Secretaire Perpetuel, Le Chev. E. Marshal.

    MANCHESTER LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL
                                    SOCIETY.

      The members of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical
Society, in offering their heartiest congratulations on the occasion
of the Jubilee of your tenure of the Lucasian Professorship, are at
one with the whole scientific world in expressing their admiration
for the signal services which, during these fifty years, you have
rendered to the cause of Science.

     Although the occasion is rare we do not celebrate to-day
merely length of years, since to you it has been given, by opening

448 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

new fields of research, to add distinction to a Chair already
illustrious beyond others.
We admire the force and originality with which you have
attacked so wide a range of subjects with such conspicuous
success. Your directing influence has been felt and acknowledged
by the most notable among the workers in science.
We remark with gratitude that you were among the first to
recognise the value of the work of our late fellow-member Joule.
We have counted you as one of our Honorary Members since
1851, and we look back with pleasure to the occasion, in 1897,
                          before the Society the first
"whTehne  you delivered   Rontgen Rays."                Wilde Lecture on
          Nature of the                                  spared for many
    It                     wish that you may yet be
          is our earnest

years to exhibit those qualities which have made your name

famous.

J. Cosmo Melvill, President.          Bailey
                                      Htt. JtohnsonJ
Osborne Reynolds,           Charles                   )  TVri.ce-P,,reside. ,nts.
                            mWilliam                  r
A. rthur Sc chuster,

R. F. Gwyther,              Francis Jones, Hon. Secretaries.

25 April, 1899.

                     ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY.

     Cum Tu, uir doctissime, per quinquaginta annos, grande mor-
talis aeui spatium, Scientiae Mathematicae apud Cantabrigienses
summa laude summaque dignitate Professor Lucasianus iam prae-
fueris, Academia Regia Hibernica hoc tam fausto die gratulatione,
honore, obseruantia Te prosequitur laeta lubens meritum.

     Memor enim quam longe lateque Tu Scientiae fines promoueris,
dum quibus legibus rotentur liquores liquido, quibus rationibus
emittantur radii lucis dilucide docueris, haec Academia, ipsa pro
sua parte Scientiae cultrix et fautrix, folium suum coronae illi
uiridissimae lubenter addit quae hoc die festo Tibi per orbem
terrarum ut dignissimo nectitur: uotumque facit ut Tibi per
multos annos superstiti ita in tempore uenturo ut in decem lustris
tam honeste peractis omnia sint bona, fausta, felicia

                              Scribendo adfuerunt
                                           Rosse, Praeses.

                                   Iohannes H. Bernard, ah actis.

      D. Dublini a. d. in Kal. Iun. mdcccxcix.

               ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                 449

          ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.

Greetings and best wishes from the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Address will follow.  Kelvin, June 2, 1899.

     On behalf of the Council of the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
we congratulate you heartily on the approaching completion of
the fiftieth year of your tenure of the Lucasian Professorship.

     We desire to express our conviction that much of the great
advance in mathematical and experimental development of Natural
Philosophy which has been made in the nineteenth century is
directly or indirectly due to you. Your published writings on
mathematical and experimental physics form an imperishable
monument to your persevering devotion of labour and genius to
the increase of knowledge during fifty-seven years.

     We rejoice to know that you enjoy good health and un
diminished activity in scientific work. We hope that these may
be continued to you for many years to come.

May 19M, 1899.        Kelvin, President.
                      P. G. Tait, Secretary.

          ST EDMUND'S COLLEGE, WARE.

     The President and Members of St Edmund's College, Old
Hall, Ware, beg leave to assure the Chancellor, Masters, and
Scholars of the University of Cambridge of their deep sense of
the honour paid them by the invitation to take part in the
ceremonies which commemorate the fifty years of eminent service
rendered by Sir George Gabriel Stokes, Baronet, LL.D., D.Sc.,
F.R.S., Lucasian Professor of Mathematics. All who are con
cerned with the promotion of learning, and more especially those
who are privileged to be in some measure associated with the
University on this unique occasion, must feel satisfaction that
labours at once so honourable and so useful have been thus

prolonged.
     The highest Academic distinction has been preceded by scien

tific research of the utmost value, and justified by work fruitful in
public benefit. In the tributes of honour now about to be
rendered to a great and worthy life, this College is glad and
happy to be allowed to share.

June 2, 1899.               Bernard Ward, President.
                            James L. Patterson,

                      Bp of Emmaus, MA., Oxon., Delegate.

s. b. i.                                    29

450 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

L'ÉCOLE POLYTECHNIQUE DE PARIS.

Prof.InCporrensuenstpinokgecoans gfroaltlouwlastio:--nsL'iÉncocloempPaonlyytewcihthniqPuroef,.  Becquerel,
                                                                                                qui a pro
duit Malus, Arago, Fresnel, Cauchy est heureuse et fière de
présenter à Sir G. G. Stokes l'hommage de sa respectueuse
admiration. Elle voulait vivement que pendant de longues années
encore Sir G. G. Stokes puisse continuer les beaux travaux si

profitables à la Science.

      L'ÉCOLE NORMALE SUPÉRIEURE DE PARIS.

      L'Ecole Normale Supérieure de Paris est heureuse de s'associer
aux fêtes du Cinquantenaire de Monsieur le Professeur Stokes.

     Ses admirables travaux sur la fluorescence, sur l'hydro
dynamique, sur l'optique et la diffraction, ont répandu sa gloire
dans le monde entier.

     Ceux d'entre nous qui connaissent le mieux ses oeuvres im
primées ne regrettent que l'excessive modestie de l'Auteur : ils
savent quel prix les plus illustres de ses compatriotes ont attaché
à ses conversations, à ses lettres, et combien d'efforts il a fallu à
lord Kelvin pour obtenir de lui la publication, malheureusement
trop courte, de ses vues théoriques sur la fluorescence, sur la
double réfraction, sur la dispersion anomale.

     Mais si vive et si profonde est leur admiration qu'à peine
conçoivent-ils comment elle aurait pu s'accroître, si même ils
avaient pénétré d'une façon plus directe et plus intime le
génie scientifique de celui que fête aujourd'hui l'Université de
Cambridge.

     Qu'il soit donné à l'Université de Cambridge de conserver
longtemps son glorieux doyen ! En l'honorant comme elle fait,
elle contribue à la réalisation de la Justice.

                        Le Directeur de l'École Normale Supérieure,

                        Georges Perrot, membre de l'Institut.

                        Le Sous-Directeur des Études scientifiques,

                      Jules Tannery.

       ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN.

     The Managers of the Royal Institution of Great Britain on
behalf of the Members beg to congratulate Sir George Gabriel
Stokes, Bart., F.RS., D.C.L., LL.D., and the University of
Cambridge, on the completion of half a century of their auspicious

union.

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION  451

     The Managers share in the general and cordial recognition of
Sir George Gabriel Stokes' signal services to Science and Educa
tion during his occupancy of the Lucasian Chair of Mathematics,
which the fiftieth anniversary of his appointment to that Chair
has evoked ; but they desire more particularly to recall the
agreeable relations which have for a long period subsisted between
him and the Royal Institution. On the 18th of February, 1853,
he lectured to the Members on "Change of Refrangibility of

Light"; on the 4th of March, 1864, he lectured on "Discrimina

tion of Organic Bodies by their Optical Properties" ; during May

and June, 1886, he gave a course of lectures on "Light"; and in
1886 the Actonian Prize of the Royal Institution was awarded to

him by the unanimous vote of the Managers, in recognition of the
manner in which his published papers proved, in accordance with
the terms of the Trust, " illustrative of the Wisdom and Bene
ficence of the Almighty."

     The Managers earnestly hope that Sir George Gabriel Stokes
will be long spared to maintain the splendid traditions of the
Lucasian Chair, to intensify the light of Scientific truth, and to
enrich his generation with sterling knowledge.

                                             (Signed) Northumberland.

                      UNIVERSITY OF BONN.

      Quo die ex omni orbe terrarum eruditi peritique naturalium
rerum homines concurrunt ad Te celebraturi peractum rarissimo
exemplo quinquagesimum annum, quo profiteri litteras professorque
excolere ac propagare coeperas, eo die ne nos quidem, universitatis
Bonnensis philosophi, Tibi deesse voluimus, quin gratulatione op-
timisque votis nostram erga Te benevolentiam significaremus.

     Ad eruendas et cognoscendas leges physicas, imprimis opticas,
Tu quid rerum gesseris et quantum contuleris, omnibus quorum
scire interest adeo notum est, ut loquendo iterare supersedeamus.
Tuum enim nomen in perpetuum duraturo vinculo adligatum
inhaeret toti illi lucis luminumque generi, quod ad fluorescentiam
et phosphorescentiam refertur, quam per omnia apparere divol-
gatam proximis demum his lustris perspectum est. Et hae tamen
commentationes, quibus Tu antecessorum in eodem spatio cursus
superasti frustraque conatos vicisti, non faciunt nisi minimam
operae tuae ac meritorum partem, quoniam experimentis istis
experiundique arti adiunxisti theoreticas disquisitiones pari laude
dignissimas.

     Hodie igitur Tibi optamus ac precamur ut porro bene valeas
vegetaque ac viridi senectute fruaris, idque nos cum Tua gratia
tum communium litterarum causa vehementer desideramus, ut

                                                                                                   29--2

452 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

quas Te non desiturum esse sciamus egregio labore et palmario
successu quamdiu vives adiutare. Itaque in annos plurimos vive

valeque.  F. KOstner, h. a. decanns.

          Bender.               W. Foerster.
                                H. Kayser.
          Dr von Bezold.

D. Bonnae x Kal. Junias a. 99.

          CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

     We, the President, Council and Fellows of the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, beg leave to present to you our warm
congratulations on the completion of fifty years service as Lucasian
Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge.

     We claim the privilege of taking a very special interest in this
event.

     For more than half a century your connection with our Society
has been of the most intimate kind, and we rejoice in recalling
how much we owe to you for the unceasing interest you have
shown in its welfare and progress.

     To you moreover we are indebted for what we hold to be a
chief glory of our Transactions, namely the long series of memoirs
contributed by you, which have taken rank among the permanent
classical writings of physical science both as records of advances
accomplished and as sources of inspiration to other investigators.

     At this time, when the University of Cambridge is specially
assembled to do you honour, we join very heartily in rendering
our homage and in desiring for you a continuance of strength,
activity, and happiness in the future.

     Signed and sealed on behalf of the Council and Fellows of the
Cambridge Philosophical Society on the 15th day of May, 1S99.

                                               Joseph Larmor, President.

              ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.

     We, the President, Council and Fellows of the Royal Astro
nomical Society offer you our congratulations in this the fiftieth
year of your tenure of the Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics
in the University of Cambridge.

      We rejoice to pay our homage to one who by his rare intel
lectual powers has done much to advance human knowledge. By
your researches in physical optics you have elucidated the laws
which govern the propagation of light, and have developed the
principles which enable us to study the constitution and move
ments of the remotest stars. Your investigation concerning the

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION  453

variation of gravity at the earth's surface will always be remem
bered as an important contribution to the theory of the figure of
the planet on which we live.

     Astronomers have thus their special share in the appreciation
of your work, and in common with many other seekers after truth
they owe you a debt of gratitude for the far-reaching influence of
the help and sympathy which you have extended to those who
have sought your advice and assistance.

     Signed and Sealed on behalf of the Council and Fellows of the
Royal Astronomical Society this 12th day of May, 1899.

             G. H. Darwin, President. H. F. Newall, Secretary.

               ST DAVID'S COLLEGE, LAMPETER.

     Quinquaginta annis iam feliciter exactis post labores Artium
Mathematicarum Professoris summa cum laude susceptos et tibi
et Academiae Cantabrigiensi libentissime gratulamur. Quanta
diligentia res naturae occultiores per tot annos indagaveris, quanta
subtilitate ingenii rationes explicaveris, quis est qui non audierit ?
Haec tanta merita vehementer admirati, in laetitiae partem hodie
vocati, diem et tibi faustum et omnibus philosophiae studiosis
memorabilem baud inviti celebramus. Te Newtoni, illustrissimi
viri, successorem nec tali viro indignum, te cum laborum eius
aemulum tum famae heredem, salutare gaudemus. Datum apud
Lampeter a. d. iv Non. Jun. a.d. mdcccxcix.

           INSTITUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.

     The Members of the Institution of Civil Engineers tender their
warm congratulations to their Honorary Member, Sir George
Gabriel Stokes, Baronet, F.R.S., on the occasion of the celebration
of his fifty years' tenure of the Lucasian Professorship of Mathe
matics in the University of Cambridge ; and desire to express
their warm appreciation of the distinguished services rendered by
him in the advancement of those Sciences which form the basis of
modern Civil Engineering.

      W. H. Preece, President. J. H. T. Tudsbery, Secretary.

      1 June, 1899.

                    KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON.

     Nobilissime, et Collegiorum Praesides et Scholares, hunc diem

in honorem Viri doctissimi, Georgii Gabriel Stokes celebrantibus

consociari liceat nobis, Collegii Regalis Londinensis Professoribus

454 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

et Praelectoribus. Quamquam nos, quod ad aetatis annos attinet
non modo prae vestra memoria prorsus pueri infantes sed Huic
etiam Viro aliquanto sumus impares. Septuagesimum enim nunc
maxime annum sibi nostrum adnumerat Collegium ; Hic vero puer
incunabula nostra vidit. Idem, ex quo quinquagenarii muneris
Academici cursum incepit, haud paucos hujus Collegii alumnos
doctrina sua ad docendum instruxit. Itaque ut Academiae Canta-
brigiensi, sic Huic ipsi ejus patri patronoque talem nos debemus
reverentiam qualem Mentori Telemachus per ignota navigans vel
Nestori juventus vix adulta. Atque ita quidem vix sumus juven-
tatem egressi ut nondum Collegio nostro status contigerit Acade-
micus. Majores idcirco Huic amico nostro tribuimus gratias, qui,
ut prius Academiae vestrae novis instituendae legibus contulit
operam, sic fautor erat gravis ac disertus Academiae Londinensis
ex simulacro in veram Universitatem promovendae. Quod opus
arduum sane et impeditum inchoantibus ipse facem praetulit.
Universitatem enim studiorum diversis suis studiis tum in mundi
physici rationibus, tum in Theologiae Naturalis nova via exqui-
renda, haud mediocriter auxit.

      Dabamus Londisi, Kal. Iun. mdcccxcix.

  BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
                                 OF SCIENCE.

      The Council of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science desire to offer you their cordial congratulations on the
completion of fifty years of your tenure of the Lucasian Professor
ship in the University of Cambridge.

     You have been a Member of the Association for more than
half a century, and have served it in many capacities during that
period. You were appointed Secretary of the Section of Mathe
matical and Physical Science in 1845, and continued in this
laborious office until 1851. In the two following years you were
a Vice-President of the Section, and became President in 1854
and again in 1862. Many times Vice-President, you were President
of the Association in 1869, at the meeting in Exeter, and have
been a permanent Member of the Council for the last thirty years.

     Your services to the Association and to the cause for which it
exists are far from being fully told by a mere enumeration of the
offices you have held. In 1852 you gave an Evening Lecture to
the Members at the Belfast Meeting on a branch of Optics which
has been chiefly elucidated by your own researches ; and from
1845, the first year of your membership, till the meeting last
year at Bristol, the Reports of the Association have been enriched
year by year by your contributions. Your celebrated reports on
"Researches in Hydrodynamics" published in 1846, and on

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                             455

"Double Refraction" in 1862, are constantly referred to as classical
writings by the cultivators of those branches of Physics, and have
conferred abiding lustre on the publications of the Association.

     Of your other conspicuous services to the cause of Science it
is almost needless to speak, but your association with the Royal
Society as Secretary for thirty-one years, and subsequently as
President, has given you a place which is without a parallel
among those who, during the last half-century, have fostered
the progress of Science.

     That you may long continue among our leaders in the advance
of knowledge is the earnest desire of the Association.

                                   Signed on behalf of the Council,

                                        William Crookes, President.

                   UNIVERSITY OF DURHAM.

     The University of Durham desires to present its heartiest
congratulations on the completion of the fiftieth year of his
Professorship.

     While those faculties which have been most cultivated in the
University of Durham are, perhaps, remote from the Sciences
which Sir George Stokes has so brilliantly adorned, the University
recognizes in him an eminence conferring a national position,
which all lovers of learning may unite to applaud.

     The University trusts that Sir George Gabriel Stokes may
live long, full of health and years and honours, to be the ornament
of his University and his Country.

                                        G. W. Kitchin, D.D.,

                                Warden of the University of Durham.

SOLAR PHYSICS COMMITTEE.

We, your Colleagues on the Solar Physics Committee, wish to
avail ourselves of the opportunity afforded by the celebration of
your jubilee as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the Uni
versity of Cambridge, to express our admiration of your life-long
labours in the cause of Science.
We feel proud to be associated with one whose name will go
down to posterity as one of the founders of that Science of
Spectrum Analysis which forms so large a part of the investi
gations directed by our Committee.
                                    J. F. D. Donnelly.
W. de W. Abney.                     J. Norman Lockyer.

W. H. M. Christie.                  Richard Strachey.

G. H. Darwin.

               Frank Rede Fowke, Secretary.

456 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

                 UNIVERSITY OF LONDON.

    Sir,-- We the Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor of the University

of London desire to offer to you, on behalf of the Senate of this
University our hearty congratulations on the occasion of the
Jubilee of your Professoriate.

     The University of London has been foremost in recognizing
the claims of Science as an avenue to University honours, and has
spared no pains to secure and maintain the highest possible
standard for its Scientific Degrees.

    It is therefore appropriate that as representing that University
we should express the deep sense which it entertains of the

importance and magnitude of the services you have rendered to
Science during a long and distinguished career, and join in the
felicitations with which all interested in the progress of Science
throughout the world now approach you on the completion of fifty
years of active labour in the cause of Scientific Education.

June 1st, 1899.                       Kimberley, Chancellor.
                                      Henry E. Roscoe, Vice-Chancellor.

                 THE CHEMICAL SOCIETY.

[Illuminated with a prism and a spectrum.]

We, the undersigned, President and Officers of the Chemical
Society, beg on behalf of the Council and Fellows, to offer you
our sincere and hearty felicitations on the occasion of your
Jubilee as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University
of Cambridge.
The fifty years during which you have held a position so
honourable in the ancient University which claims you as among

the most distinguished of her sons have witnessed an extraordinary
and unprecedented development in those branches of natural
knowledge which are immediately connected with the work of
your professorship. To this development your own labours as a
teacher and an investigator have contributed in no small degree.
You have profoundly influenced the teaching of physics wherever
this subject is taught, and this influence has of necessity extended
into those departments of chemical science which are directly
dependent upon or are associated with physics. We gratefully

acknowledge the services you have rendered to chemical physics
by your researches on hydrodynamics, by your contributions to

the theory and practice of spectrum analysis, and by your optical
"inOvensttigheatioanpsp.licaYtoiounr  memorable contribution to  our own Journal,
                                      of the optical properties  of bodies to the

detection and discrimination of organic substances," made more

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION  457

than a third of a century ago, has borne fruit an hundredfold, and
to-day the refractometer and the spectroscope are as indispensable
to the chemist as is his balance. We are glad to recognise that
your interest in our special field of enquiry springing from that
catholicity which is your characteristic has in no wise abated, for
there is hardly a chemical subject bordering upon those branches
of physical research which you have made more especially your
own that has not been elucidated and benefited by your kindly
criticism and advice. There are many workers in our Society who
thankfully acknowledge the ready help which you have rendered
to them by your counsel and suggestions.

     That you may long continue to enjoy, in health and prosperity,
the esteem and respect with which you are universally held by
those who labour for the advancement of knowledge and the
spread of learning, is the heartfelt wish of every member of that
body on whose behalf we now address you.

      T. E. Thorpe, President. William A. Tilden, Treasurer.
      Wyndham R. Dunstan, Alexander Scott, Secretaries.
      Raphael Meldola, Foreign Secretary.

     Burlington House, London, lit June, 1899.

         ROYAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCE OF THE
                               NETHERLANDS.

     Most honoured Colleague. -- On the occasion of the 50th
anniversary of your election to the Lucasian Professorship of
Mathematics the Royal Academy of Science of the Netherlands
feels bound to offer you its hearty congratulations and to give
expression to its feelings of high regard and admiration for what
you have achieved. With unremitting zeal you have used your
mathematical talent and experimental skill for the promotion of
modern science, taking a part as well in the early development of
spectrum analysis as in the recent study of new invisible radia
tions, and always setting the example of scientific inquiry, carried
on in an honest, truth-loving, humble spirit, as you once so
beautifully advocated it.

    It is thus that your investigations in hydrodynamics, by which

so many difficult points have been cleared up, and your researches
on fluorescence and in theoretical optics, have secured you a high
place in the ranks of those Natural Philosophers of whom the
Country of Newton may justly feel proud. Nor has it been by
your original work only that you have deserved the gratitude of
men of science. Many of England's most distinguished physicists,
among them the universally regretted Clerk Maxwell, were once
your pupils. And in many ways, especially as Secretary and

458 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

President of the Royal Society, you have shown how warmly you
love Science in general, and not only those branches in whose
development you have had so prominent a share.

     May Providence bless the evening of your life, and spare you
for long years to the benefit of science and of your country.

                            For the Royal Academy of Science
                                 H. G. v.d. S. Bakhuysen, President.

                          J. D. v.d. Waals, Secretary.

      Amsterdam, June 1, 1899.

                   QUEEN'S COLLEGE, BELFAST.
    Dear Sir, -- On behalf of Queen's College, Belfast, we tender

to you our very hearty congratulations on the completion of the
fiftieth year of your Professoriate.

     Your experimental investigations, especially those on the
Change in the Refrangibility of Light, and those on the Exten
sion of the Solar Spectrum beyond the Violet Rays, would alone
entitle you to be enrolled amongst the great scientific discoverers
of the century.

     But your claim to our admiration rests upon higher founda
tions. We cannot but regard you as the Nestor and master-mind
of the illustrious school of English Mathematicians, who have
been so persevering and successful in applying the methods of
exact mathematical analysis to the manifold problems which the
rapidly developing Physical Sciences have presented for solution.

    In a word, we cordially join in the universal verdict, that the

great traditions of the chair of Newton have been, in your tenure,

mostItwios rtnhailtyuramllayinataimneadtt.er of pride to us that we can claim you

as a countryman, and that your good lady too hails from Ireland,
where the name of her father, the late distinguished Astronomer
of Armagh, is still a household word.

     That God may grant you many more years of health and
vigour in which to enlighten us by your insight into His laws
is our earnest prayer.

      Signed on behalf of the Council of Queen's College, Belfast,

              T. Hamilton, President. J. Purser, Registrar.

       June, 1899.

                   QUEEN'S COLLEGE, GALWAY.
     We, the Council of Queen's College, Galway, beg to tender
our warmest congratulations on your having completed the fiftieth

year of your Professorship.

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION       459

    In this Western Province of Ireland we feel that we have a

peculiar claim to write our modest but hearty good wishes with
the acclamations of the scientific world, as it is a proud boast of
Connaught to number you among her most distinguished sons.

     May you long be spared to look back on the great and good
work you have done for Science, and to enjoy the universal
esteem you have won in the half-century during which you
have so worthily occupied your Chair.

  Alex. Anderson, President. Edward Townsend, Registrar.

       Mth May, 1899.

THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE AND ROYAL
                SCHOOL OF MINES, LONDON.

Royal College of Science,
          1st June, 1899.

      The Council, Staff, and Students of the Royal College of
Science, London, desire to congratulate you most warmly on the
attainment of the fiftieth year of your tenure of the Lucasian
Professorship.

     At this moment when men of science are celebrating the lustre

which for half a century your name has shed upon the University
of Cambridge, we desire to recall to your recollection that you
were once numbered among the teachers of the Institution which
has since developed into the Royal College of Science and School
of Mines.

     Your successors are proud of the fact that they are reaping
where you helped to sow, and the grain of the harvest of knowledge
is richer in London as in Cambridge because you scattered the
seed in days when such labour was less appreciated and more
difficult than now.

Signed on behalf of the Council and Staff John W. Judd.

Signed on behalf of the Students  Frank Mould.

                OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTER.

      The Senate of the Owens College, Manchester, offer to you
their heartiest congratulations on the occasion of the Jubilee of
your tenure of the Lucasian Professorship.

     To many members of the Senate, the profound researches by
which that tenure has been distinguished have long been a source
of instruction and inspiration. Others also recall the courtesy and
dignity which marked your long association with the great Scien
tific Society to which they owe allegiance. And all feel honoured

460 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

by being allowed to join in the universal expression of admiration
and goodwill which the present celebration has evoked.

Signed on behalf of the Senate  Arthur Schuster.

  Alfred Hopkinson, Principal.  Horace Lamb.

  Osborne Reynolds.

Owens College, Manchester, May, 1899.

          UNIVERSITY OF BOMBAY.

Sir, -- On behalf of the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and Fellows
Iof the University of Bombay, whom it is my privilege to represent
to-day,   tender to you their cordial congratulations on the
approaching completion of the period of fifty years which began
on the date of your election to the Lucasian Professorship of
Mathematics.

    It would scarcely be becoming in the Delegate of a University
which was not in existence till nearly fourteen years after that
date to use the language of praise in reference to the labours by
which, as Lucasian Professor, as Secretary and President of the
Royal Society, as Lecturer in the School of Mines and elsewhere,
and as the Author of numerous treatises on Mathematical and

Physical Subjects, you have promoted the advancement of Physical
Science in our time. But the University of Bombay can, with
propriety, share with older Institutions their respectful admiration
of your pre-eminent attainments and distinguished educational

services. It can join in this tribute the more freely because, since
its establishment, in the year 1857, it has always looked to
Cambridge for light and guidance in regulating the methods
and procedure of its Examinations in Mathematics for degrees
in Arts.
In response to the invitation with which they have been
honoured by the Senate of the University of Cambridge, the
Chancellor, Vice- Chancellor and Fellows of the University of
IBombay take their part in this memorable celebration of your

Jubilee with the sincerest satisfaction ; and deem myself happy
in the opportunity which has been giveu me, on this most
auspicious occasion, of conveying to you this deferential expres
sion of their hearty good-will, esteem and homage.

I have the honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient Servant,

                            H. BlRDWOOD,

          Delegate, and late Vice-Chancellor.

Cambridge, 2nd June, 1899.

          ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                           461

          IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY OF TOKIO.

[In Japanese : accompanied by a translation made by the
             Japanese Legation in London, as follows.]
                                           Imperial University of Tokio,

                              17 April, 1899.
ISir, -- It is with sincere gratification that learn the news of
the celebration, in the early part of June next, of the Fiftieth
anniversary of your professorship at the University of Cambridge.
Your meritorious services rendered for the cause of Science during
the last half a century  are well known in  all parts  of the globe.
                          the whole world   heartily   welcome this
It is no wonder that
approaching celebration. I now have the honour to present this
congratulation in the name of the Imperial University of Tokio,
Japan, and beg to express my wish that your age will last long
Itogether with the University of Cambridge itself.

         have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,

                         Dairoku Kikuchi,

                         President of the University of Tokio.

          LONDON MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY.

Sir, -- The Council of the London Mathematical Society have

much pleasure in tendering to you their sincere congratulations
on the approaching completion of the fiftieth year of your tenure
of the Lucasian Professorship. They recognize that many of the
memoirs published in the Proceedings of the Society bear witness
to the great influence which your writings have had in opening
new paths of discovery in Mathematics and in pointing the way
to novel applications in the domain of Natural Philosophy, and
they desire to express a hope that you may live long to represent
in Great Britain the science which you have done so much to

promote.  Kelvin, President.

          Robert Tucker, A. E. H. Love, Secretaries.

            SOCIETE FRANgATSE DE PHYSIQUE.

     La Societé Francaise de Physique, qui a le grand honneur de
vous compter parmi les dix Physiciens auxquels elle a d^cerne le
titre de Membre Honoraire, ne saurait rester indiffeVente a la
manifestation organised en votre honneur par le monde scientifique
tout entier.

     Elle a chargé l'un de ses anciens Présidents de vous porter

4(32 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

l'expression de ses sentiments d'admiration et de reconnaissance
pour les travaux que vous avez accomplis, et de vous offrir les
vceux qu'elle forme pour la longue continuation de votre brillante
carriere.

     A l'exemple du plus illustre de vos predecesseurs, dans cette
chaire que vous occupez avec tant d'eclat, l'immortel Sir Isaac

Newton, vous avez su faire profiter de la puissance de votre g£nie
createur les diverses parties de la Science; les Mathematiques,
l'Astronomie, la Physique vous doivent des dffcouvertes admirables.

      Comment les Physiciens pourraient-ils jamais oublier, parmi
tant d'autres travaux dont ils vous sont redevables, vos Etudes
relatives aux phénomenes les plus delicats de l'Optique ? Les
r&ultats que votre esprit penetrant a pu obtenir sur la diffraction,
sur la reflexion, sur l'absorption demeureront a jamais classiques,
et vos recherches sur la fluorescence suffiraient a immortaliser
votre nom ; elles vous ont conduit a une loi dont l'importance au
point de vue des conséquences pratiques, et au point de vue de la
Philosophic Naturelle, grandit tous les jours.

     Mais il ne saurait etre question d'enumeVer ici tous les titres
que vous avez a l'universelie reconnaissance des Physiciens, tous
les Membres de la Societe- Francaise de Physique les connaissent,
aussi ont-ils unanimement décidé qu'ils vous prieraient de recevoir
l'hommage de leurs sinceres sentiments d'admiration.

     Les Membres du Bureau de la Sociéte Fiancaise de Physique,

             Gal. Bassot, de I'Acaddniie des Sciences, President.
             L. PoiNCARE, Secretaire géndral.
             H. Deslandb.es.

            UNIVERSITY OF NEW ZEALAND.

     Quod nos comiter invitatione prosecuti estis, ut quendam
legaremus, qui laetitiae vestrae testis et particeps adesset, idcirco
maximas gratias et agimus et habemus. Vobis autem et viro
multis nominibus laudando, Georgio Gabriel Stokes, professori
                         raraque inter             felicitate gratulamur;
vestro, de  pmeragLna  annos publico      homines   sua eademque vestra
huic quia                               munere in

Academia praeditus scientiam rerum occultarum indagavit et

adhuc indagat, et quasi facem philosophiae cum aequalibus tum
posteris praelucet; vobis vero quod contigit tantae tanti viri
gloriae communione illustrari.
Etenim nos, quamquam penitus a vobis toto orbe divisi sumus,
tamen in vestro gaudio partem nostram vindicamus. Fuerunt
quidem olim philosophi qui unam quandam omnium qui ubique
sunt sapientium civitatem adumbrarent, quod somnium nostra
aetas verum reddidit et repraesentavit. Nulla enim res usquam

             ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                    463

a doctis hominibus potest reperiri, quin protinus eius notitia ad
sola terrarum ultima perveniat. Itaque de toto orbe terrarum
"summemnsi                  sententia  immutata,
            poetae verba,                         usurpare  possumus:
            agitat molem."
Et nos quidquid in vestra Academia geritur, vel proxime
tangit, non solum quod una nobis est vobiscum patria, et eadem
stirpe orti sumus, sed quia artiore vinculo inter nos copulati
sumus, ut alumni nostri hinc profecti non tamquam hospites in

Academia Cantabrigiensi versentur, sed praecipuo quodam socie-
tatis iure numero vestro adscribantur. Ergo laetamur ut qui
maxime, et nobilissimo professori vestro, qui in quaestionibus
naturalibus et mathematicis tam diu primas agit, qui tot rebus
obscuris, qui ipsi lucis naturae lumen attulit, laudem honorem
reverentiam, ut par est, deferimus, et dum festum eius diem
celebramus, omnia fausta eius causa precamur; simulque exop-
tamus ut ille ordo amplissimus virorum Cautabrigiensium egregia
cum laude in rerum natura investiganda exercitatorum, iam inde
a Newtono continuatus, etiam in omnium saeculorum posteritatem

propagetur.

                 DURHAM COLLEGE OF SCIENCE.

      The Council, Professors, and Students of the Durham College
of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, desire to ofFer their hearty
congratulations to Professor Sir George Gabriel Stokes, Bart.,
M.A., Hon. LL.D., Hon. Sc.D., F.R.S., on the attainment of his
Jubilee as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University
of Cambridge.

      They recognize, with admiration, the valuable work done by
Professor Stokes during the last fifty years, which has been by no
means restricted to his own University. His originality of thought,
alertness of mind, and soundness of judgment, have achieved
magnificent results, and greatly extended our knowledge of
Natural Phenomena. To his wonderful combination of mathe
matical power, resourcefulness, and experimental skill, as well as
to his stimulating influence, the world largely owes one of its most
brilliant schools of Natural Philosophers. He has proved himself
a worthy successor of the great master, "qui genus humanum
ingenio superavit." May he long be spared to adorn the Chair
whose highest traditions he has so nobly sustained.

      Signed on behalf of the Council, Professors, and Students of
the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

                                Henry Palin Gurney, Principal.

4G4 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

                   UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE.

     The Council of the University of Adelaide tender you their
most sincere congratulations on the occasion of your Jubilee as
Lucasian Professor.

     They feel greatly honoured in being permitted to have a share
in the manifestations of respect and admiration which this event
calls forth on all hands ; and they are pleased to think that their
participation may serve in some degree as a symbol that the fame
of your achievements is cherished, and the influence of your
labours is felt, in whatever region of the earth science is taught

or pIutrsiusedt.he earnest prayer of the Council that abilities so pre

eminent and so faithfully used may long be spared to the service
of your own University, and of the world-wide fraternity of seekers
after Natural Knowledge.

             UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF WALES.
     Sir,-- The Council of the University College of Wales,

Aberystwyth, regarding with feelings of high respect and ad
miration the brilliant services to Mathematical and Physical
Science by which you have conferred an added lustre on your
University and your Country, offer you their most cordial con
gratulations and good wishes upon the attainment of the Fiftieth
Year of your tenure of the Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics
in the University of Cambridge.

                  Rendel, President. T. F. Roberts, Principal.

      Aberystwyth, June 1st, 1899.

                 YORKSHIRE COLLEGE, LEEDS.
    Sir, -- The Council and Senate of The Yorkshire College, Leeds,

offer you their heartiest congratulations on the approaching com
pletion of the Fiftieth Year of your tenure of the Lucasian
Professorship of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge,
and beg your acceptance of this Address, as a token of the esteem
in which they hold your great achievements in the world of
Mathematical and Physical Science, and of the gratitude which
they feel for your splendid contributions to the advancement of
human knowledge.

     Signed by order and on behalf of the Council and Senate of
the Yorkshire College.

           Arthur G. Lupton, Chairman of Council.

              N. Bodington, Principal, and Chairman of Senate.

      Leeds, June 2nd, 1899.

                      ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                         465

                      PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.

Sir, -- I have been deputed by the Council of the Physical
Society of London to represent the Society at the celebration of
the Fiftieth Anniversary of your appointment to the Lucasian
                        of Mathematics in the                         of Cambridge.
ProfeItssiosrsthhiep  desire of every Fellow of      University        Society to offer
                                                     the Physical
to you his hearty congratulations upon so memorable an occasion,
and at the same time to express the hope that you may long be
spared to continue the labours for the advancement of knowledge
that have rendered you justly famous and have been so fruitful in

the past.
     The Fellows of the Physical Society have a keen sense of the

debt that is owed to you by the whole world for the great increase
that you have made in our knowledge of Physical Science, and
the whole Society is especially glad of the present opportunity of

Ithanking you for your work.

        am, Sir, Your obedient servant,

                                   Oliver J. Lodge, President.

26th May, 1899

         UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, SHEFFIELD.

The Council and Senate of University College Sheffield
present their hearty congratulations to you and to the University
of Cambridge on the completion of your 50 years tenure of the
Lucasian Chair of Mathematics in that University.
The immense advance of physical knowledge during this period
has been in no small degree due to the results and methods
developed by yourself, to the brilliant series of Mathematicians

who owe inspiration to your works and teaching, and to the
assistance which you have ungrudgingly given to workers in

Physical Science.
     Since your first paper in 1842 (on fluid motion) down to your
last (also on fluid motion) we owe to you amongst other results a
series of researches into the problems opened up by Fresnel's
establishment a quarter of a century earlier of the true theory of
light, and into the problems of hydrodynamics few of which before
the publication of the methods with which your name will always

be associated had been successfully attacked.

We trust that you may live long to see those studies to which
you have been devoted advance still further into the unknown ;

that in those advances the younger provincial Colleges such as
our own, which owe their establishment to the quickened sense of

the value of Scientific Knowledge, may take a not unworthy part.
Norfolk, President.
                      S0Morabpyp,in,,,W.Hilleianmry
,,Frederick                                          Stephenson)      Vt,i.ce-Pnreside. n, ts.J
                                                     ~Dyson       j>
Henry C.-,.

s. a i.                                                               30

466 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

        UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, DUNDEE.

The Governors, Council, Professors, and Students of University
College, Dundee, desire to offer you their congratulations on the
completion of the fiftieth year of your tenure of the Lucasian
Chair of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge. During
the whole of this long period you have devoted yourself to the
advancement of your Science, and the record of your worth is one
of which your fellow-countrymen are justly proud. The results
which you have achieved will never be forgotten, but those who
now address you would express the hope for yourself that you may
be permitted for many years to enjoy the honours which your
great labours have so signally merited and so abundantly called

forth.           John Yule Mack ay, Principal.

June 2nd, 1899.

                 VICTORIA UNIVERSITY.

     The Court and Convocation, together with the Professors,
Lecturers, and Scholars of the Victoria University, beg to offer
you their most cordial congratulations on the occasion of the
Jubilee of your tenure of the Lucasian Professorship.

     They share to the full the universal admiration of the solid
and enduring contributions to the fabric of Science by which that
tenure has been marked, and of the lofty and sincere character
which has added fresh dignity to a Chair already so illustrious,
and they recall with especial gratification the fact that the Uni
versity has been permitted to inscribe your name on its roll of
honorary graduates.

     The Victoria University trusts that you may long be spared to
enjoy the position which you have attained in the respect and
affection of your own University and of the Scientific world.

Signed on behalf of the University,

                 N. Bodington,       Vice-Chancellor.

1st June, 1899.

             ROYAL UNIVERSITY OF IRELAND.
    Sir,--We the Members of the Senate of the Royal University

of Ireland desire to offer you our hearty congratulations on your
completion of a period of fifty years as Lucasian Professor of
Mathematics in the University of Cambridge and we have com
missioned one of our body to convey to you this expression of our
high admiration and regard.

ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION  467

     Your eminent services to the Mathematical and Physical
Sciences are known and appreciated here as they are wherever
these Sciences are cultivated. These services have been recog
nised not only by the honours conferred on you by the Universities
and learned Societies of the British Isles but also by the illustrious
Order which you received from the Sovereign of a Foreign State.

     We remember with pride and pleasure that you are a member
of an Irish family of high intellectual distinction and that a portion
of your early education was conducted in this city.

     We trust that you will enjoy health and happiness during the
closing period of your honourable career.

     Given under the Common Seal of the University this 11th day
of May, 1899.

      Thomas Moffett, pro-Chancellor.
      James Creed Meredith, Joseph McGrath, Secretaries.

         ROYAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, DUBLIN.

     We, the Dean and Council of the Royal College of Science for
Ireland, beg to offer our most sincere and hearty congratulations
on the attainment of your Jubilee as Lucasian Professor of
Mathematics in the University of Cambridge, and desire to join
in offering homage to one who has added still more fame to the
Chair once filled by the illustrious Newton.

     Your splendid series of researches have enlarged the boundaries
of knowledge and enriched the sciences of Mathematics, Physics,
and Chemistry ; and your labours and influence as Secretary and
afterwards as President of the Royal Society have been of in
estimable service in stimulating and guiding the zeal of scientific
workers not only in the University but throughout the nation
and the whole civilized world.

     We sincerely hope that your vigour of mind and body may be
preserved and your brilliant career prolonged for many years.

               Signed on behalf of the Council

                       William McF. Orr, Bean of the Faculty.

        26tfi May, 1899.

             UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LIVERPOOL.

   I am desired by the Council and Senate of University College,

Liverpool to offer you their sincere congratulations on the cele
bration of your Jubilee as Lucasian Professor in the University
of Cambridge.

     The sole survivor of that trio of Senior Wranglers who have
made Cambridge Mathematics famous in this century, the most
distinguished of the successors of Newton, you have held his

468 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

Chair for fifty years, and throughout that time have been recog
nized as a leader among those who have improved Natural
Knowledge.

     As students we are grateful to you for your work ; some of us
can claim to be your pupils, and we recognize how much Science
owes to you, and we dare to express the hope that, even now,
more of the treasures you have stored may be made available

for others.

    It is not for us to describe your work in Hydrodynamics, in

Optics, and in Acoustics ; your writings form the foundation of

a large portion of our knowledge of these subjects ; therefore we
value this opportunity afforded us to-day of recognizing your

great merits, and of congratulating you on the long period of

your service to this Ancient University.

1 June 1899.  R. T. Glazebrook.

       UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF NORTH WALES.

     The Senate of the University College of North Wales offers its
congratulations to the University of Cambridge on the Jubilee of
Sir George Stokes as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics. The
last fifty years has been a period of rapid and sustained progress
of discovery in Physical Science, and, more than any other similar
period in scientific history, has been remarkable for the number
and importance of the applications of Science to Industry and the
Arts. In the studies of the University of Cambridge the Mathe
matical Principles of Natural Philosophy have, ever since the
Lucasian Chair was adorned by the great discoveries of Newton,
held an important, if not a predominating place, and the work
that the eminent men trained in its Mathematical discipline have
done has contributed, above any other cause, to advance the
science of our time.

     The influence of the work of Sir George Stokes in this Depart
ment of Science has been wide-reaching and profound. His
discoveries in Hydrodynamics and Physical Optics, and in the
great mathematical theories which deal with physical subjects,
rank with the productions of the illustrious mathematicians of the
preceding half-century, and have done much to inspire the work
of other discoverers who were his friends and pupils. His theories,
especially those in Wave Propagation and Optics, have found
unexpected but important application in the explanation of some
of the recondite phenomena that have been discovered by experi
ments suggested by the great generalization which we owe to
another Cambridge Professor, the Electromagnetic Theory of
Light.

          ADDRESSES OF CONGRATULATION                           469

     But above all, the Senate desires to recognise the example
which Sir George Stokes has set to scientific workers. Ever slow
to publish results until they have been amply confirmed by
further investigation, he has pursued his work for the sake of
truth alone, and has sought only that appreciation which is shown
by the success of researches to which he had pointed the way.

     The Senate heartily wishes Sir George Stokes many more
years of health and strength for the continuance of labours which
have been of so much advantage to the best interests of mankind.

  H. R. Reichel, Principal. John Edward Lloyd, Registrar.

     May \Sth, 1899.

     ROYAL INDIAN ENGINEERING COLLEGE.

    Dear Sir, -- The Members of the Royal Indian Engineering
College, Coopers Hill, desire to join in the congratulations which

you are receiving from all parts of the civilized world on the
memorable occasion of your completion of fifty years' occupation
of the Lucasian Chair of Mathematics at Cambridge.
     Within those fifty years, Applied Mathematics has experienced
a development and acquired a power for the investigation of
almost all natural phenomena which are, we venture to think,
beyond all precedent in the history of human knowledge. To
such an extent has this been the case that the world has been

almost as much impressed by the achievements of the Mathe
matician in the domain of Physics as by those of the Inventor.
     This glorious    ferewsumltenha--s Fbaereandapyr,odKueclevdin,inCElenrgklanMdaxmwaeilnl,lyanbdy
the   genius of a

yourself; and the University of Cambridge attests to-day, by the
splendid work of her alumni, the power and efficacy of the teaching
which she has received, during your fifty years of tenure, from her
illustrious instructors. There is no need for us to particularise
your contribution to this result. The great masters of Modern
Science have repeatedly paid tribute to your work, both as an
experimentalist and as a mathematician. Your name remains for
ever impressed, both by experimental discovery and by all-im

portant theorems, on Physical Optics and on Hydrodynamics.
     For                   Sir, and for something which is outside
them --    these things,                               all who have
          your invariable  urbanity and courtesy to
worked    in your domain   and sought your assistance  and advice --

we beg to assure you of our profound admiration, and our desire
that you may be still long with us as one of the brightest lights
of British Science.

                                     John Pennycuick, President.

     31st May, 1899.

                                                       30--3

470 JUBILEE CELEBRATION

               VICTORIA INSTITUTE.

We, the Vice-Presidents, Council, Members and Associates of

the Victoria Institute desire to offer our most sincere congratula
tions to you, our President, on the occasion of the Jubilee of your
tenure of the Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics in the
University of Cambridge.
We shall not attempt to enumerate your varied and valuable
achievements in different branches of Science, but will confine
                                                                                                     in
ourselves  to  NeaxpturerasslingReloiguior nd.eepItaphpasrecsitaretinogntheonfeydourthelabfoauirtsh  of
the field  of

many to find that one so well able to judge as yourself has not
                                             Lbeuctturtehsa--t yeoituhehravgeiveinn
found Religion and Science    antagonistic,
many instances -- notably in  your Gifford
able and convincing expositions of their harmony, or have clearly

demonstrated the wisdom of a suspense of judgment till the
advance of human knowledge may enable solutions to be dis
covered for problems as yet unsolved.
We trust that the Victoria Institute and its high objects may
long have the advantage of your Presidency, and that every
blessing may be vouchsafed to you, to Lady Stokes, and to your

family.        Halsbury.

               F. W. H. Petrie, Capt, Hon, Sec.

Victoria Institute, June 19M, 1899.

               PROFESSOR D. MENDELEEFF.

I am very sorry not to be able to attend the celebration of the
Ianniversary of your fifty years' glorious activity as Professor of
Mathematics at the University of Cambridge;  beg you to
Iaccept my sincerest congratulations and best wishes to this rare

event, which reminds me of my student days, when first was
delighted in reading your ingenious investigations in Natural

Philosophy.

St Pktersbourg, 16/28 v. 1899.

INDEX TO VOL. I.

Abbe, E., inquiry about Harcourt's opti        Authors and publishing Societies, 220.
                                               Autobiographical memorandum, 8.
    cal glass, 202.
Aberration, spherical, 205; flexure and,       Babbage, C, difference engine, 419.

    207; chromatic, 207.                       Baden Powell, Prof., 115.
                                               Ballistics, Committee on Bashforth's
Abiogenesis, 338.
Abney, Sir W. de W., colour vision,            advances, 195.

    255.                                       Barometer, effect of atmospheric tides,
Absorption, Kirchhoff's theory of, 140;
                                               342.
    optical, of steam jet, 428 ; specific,
                                               Baronetcy,   pJr.o,pohsiasl   of a, 18.
     199.                                      Barton, Sir                  gratings, 154.
                                               Bashforth, F., his ballistics, 195.
Achromatism of Fraunhofer's glasses,           Becquerel, H., 285; on radio-activity,
    117 ; simple test of, 203.
                                               293.
Actinometers for India, 368 ; prospects
   of high level work, 240, 245.               Belgium, R.   JA.c,aodnemFya,radaassyoclieatttee,rs,  447.
                                               Bence Jones,                                            152.
Activities, various personal, 61.
Adamantine optical quality (Airy's),           Berlin Academy, foreign associate, 148 ;

    366.                                       foreign membership,          282 ; address
                                               from, 441.
Adams, J. C, on ballistics, 196, 197;          Bessel functions, generalised, 133 ; tabu

   on Smith's Prizes, 217 ; illness, 349,      lation of, 394.
                                               Biblical account of Creation, 86.
    368.
Aether, functions of the, 84.                  Biographical, 310, 404; table, 111.
                                               Blanford, H. F., 245.
Airy, Sir G. B., 196, 212--217.                Blood, reactions of, 163; crystals, 165;
Alloys, crystallisation of, 302.
Ancestors and relatives, 2.                        memorandum on, 167.          354.
Anemometer affected by its own eddies          Blue rays most visible, 262.
                                               Brakes, hydraulic and electric,
   in a confined space, 347 ; comparison
   of different ones, 356.                     Breakwater, design of, to resist waves,
Appreciations ; by Prof. Liveing, 91 ; Sir
   Michael Foster, 97 ; Sir W. Huggins,        242.
   103 ; The Bishop of Bristol, 105.           Brewster, Sir D., on colours of weathered
Arc, theory of carbon, 352 ; establish         glass, 153; internal dispersion, 129.
   ment of, 371.                               British Association, 197 ; lecture at, 10 ;
Armstrong, W. O. (Lord), on wind
                                                   address from, 454.
    pressure, 187.                             Business relations, 36.
Asymptotic solutions, 132.
Atmosphere, inversions of temperature          Cambridge, University Commission, 106,
                                                  views on, 107; University and Fara
   in, 371; tides in, 339.                        day, 152; British Assoc., 198; on
Atmospheric electric discharge, nuclei            Mathematical course at, 213 ; import
                                                  ance of Smith's Prizes, 214 ; suc
   necessary, 374 ; electricity, its origin,      cession to Clerk Maxwell, 227 ; Jubilee
   intensity, 376 ; volcanic, 376.                address, 280 ; Jubilee medal, 2H1 ;
Atoms, similarity of, suggests design,            Phil. Trans., Stokes volume, 283;
   83; and molecules, 219.                        Mathematical School, 304; Phil. Soc.,
Aurora borealis, 237, 370; possible in            address from, 452.
   fluence of solar radiation, 246 ; relation
   to cirrus, 371 ; to vacuum tube dis         Catalogue of scientific literature, 393.
   charges, 373 ; auroral zone, 373 ;          Cathode rays explored by Crookes, 355 ;
   observations, 374; its moderate height,
   375; statistics of, 377; theory of, 379;       nature of, 271; penetration, 272.

   spectrum, 380.

472 INDEX TO VOL. I.

Cauchy, A. L., on analysis of differential                  Eclipse preparations, 404.
   strain, 157; metallic reflection, 191,                   Eddies, formation of, 231 ; from sharp

365--7.                                                        edges, results of, 348, 361.
                                                            Editor, functions of an, 223.
Cayley, A., 381--397.                    Vice-              Elasticity of solids, 155.
Characteristics, personal, 323.                             Electric arc, radiation around, 300.
Chase, Dr F. H., address as
                                                                 ,, units, Jacobi on, 193.
   Chancellor of Cambridge, 320.                                 ,, discharge, relation of radiation
Chemical elements, compound nature                              to, 246 ; its nature, 352 ; spectrum
                                                               of spark radiation, 352 ; magnetic
   of, 407.                                                    deflection, 372 ; relation to pressure
Chemical Society, address from, 456.                           in gases, 378.
Childhood, 4.                                               Electricity, atmospheric, from balloons,
                                                                242.
Chlorophyll, decomposition products of,                     Ellipsoid, centro-surface of, 396.
   260; second yellow substance in, 76;                     Encouragement to beginners, 96.
   memorandum on absorption of, 261.                        Endurance, physical, 26.
Chromatic aberration, test of, 417.                         Enquiry, freedom of, asserted, 89.
Church Reform, views on, 47.                                Evolution, not a cause but a mode, 90.
Colour-blindness, 254, mathematical                         Examinations, value of, 216.
                                                            Expansions, semi-convergent, for in
   specification of, 391 ; sensations,                          tegrals, 390, 395.
   nature of primary, 254.                                  Experimental aptitude, 19.
Colour, appreciation of, a stimulus to                      Experiments, 96.
                                                            Explosions, inquiry on, 162.
   experiment, 22.   427 ; nature of                        Extrapolation, 345.
Cometary structure,
                                                            Faraday, M., 104, 149; colours of finely
   tails, 428.                                                  divided gold, 150 ; on relation of
                                                                electricity to gravity, 151.
Committees, 115.
                                                             Feathers, cause of colours of, 181.
Condensation nuclei, 372.                                    Flaws in rigid material very deleterious,
Conical refraction not decisive for
   Fresnel's                                                     351.
Conroy, Sir   Jt.h,eoonrym, e1t2a1ll.ic  reflection,  367.   Fluorescein, 336.
                                                             Fluorescence, discovery of, 9; Herschel
Cooperation, value of scientific, 198.
Copley Medal, award of, 268.                                    on, 128; Prince of Salm-Horstmar
Cornu, A., entertainment to, 430; his                           on, 136 ; chemical analysis by, 139 ;
                                                                mechanism of, 139 ; of metallic
   Rede lecture, 275, 284.                                       vapours, 249 ; of gases, 250, 2..9 ; of
Corona, Solar, its projectile nature,                           gas connected with its conductivity,
   426; against light of sky, 430.                              364 ; spectra of sodium vapour, 431.
Correspondence, scientific, 264.                             Fog, luminous, 379; gas versus electric
                                                                light in, 258.
Coude telescope, 204.                                        Forth bridge, stability against wind, 187.
Crookes, Sir W., on viscosity of rarefied                    Foster, Sir Michael, 142.
                                                             Foucault, L., on brightness of voltaic
   gas, 236 ; importance of his work, 353.                       arc against the sun, 350.
Cyclopaedia, English, contributions to,                      Fox Talbot, 197.
                                                             France, Institute of, foreign associate,
154.                                                             284 ; congratulations from members,
                                                                 287; address from, 440.
Darwin, C, award of Copley Medal,                            Fraxin and Paviin, 137.
                                                             Friction, transition from static to kinetic,
   168 ; question on heredity, 180 ; on                          344.
   colours of feathers, 181.                                 Friends, list of scientific, in 1862, 162.
Dean of Westminster, address, 314.                           Froude, W., his hydraulic brake, 354.
Decisions, difficulty of, 108.
Deflection of bridge by travelling load,                     Gas theory, and natural radiation, 225.
                                                             Generosity, scientific, 103.
    125.                                                     Gifford lecturer, 256.
De la Rue, W., relations with, 241 ;                          Gottingen Academy, address from, 442.
                                                              Gratings, manufacture of echelon, 272.
    magnetic effect on arc, 378.                              Greenwich Observatory visitations, 217.
Diffracted light, polarization of, 138.                      Grubb, Sir Howard, 203; test of large
Diffraction bands, monochromatic, 117.
Dimensions, applied to ballistics, 197;                           objective. 354

   to viscous fluids, 232.

Diplomas and genealogy, 113.
Discovery, attitude towards, 27.
Dispersion, optical, measures of, 200.
Divergent series, limitations to use, 345.
Dividing engine, Kew, 189.
Du Bois-Keymond, E., on Newton

    portrait, 147.

Early life, 3; reminiscences, 291.
Earth's electric charge, 371.
Ear-trumpet, theory of, 362.

                                    INDEX TO VOL. I.                                               473

Grubb, T., 205.                                                Kelvin, Lord, presents Copley Medal,
Guns, bad design in, 351.                                         268; address at Jubilee Celebration,
                                                                   277 ; appreciation, 308 ; address at
Hamilton, Sir W. Rowan, on Besselian                              Westminster Abbey, 317.

semi-convergent expansion, 131; on                             Ketteler, E., on theory of refraction, 229.
forward propagation of waves, 135.                             Kingsley, W. T., 290; early experience
Hansteen's auroral arches, 377.
Harcourt, Rev. W. Vernon, on optical                              in photomicrography, 423.
glass, 200 ; utility of bis glasses, 208 ;                     Kirchhoff, G., on absorption, 140.
gift of refractometer, 324.                                    Kundt, A., on slip in rarefied gases, 236.

Hawkshaw, Sir J.. 188, 244.                                    Lamb, H., on wave-groups, 301.
Helmholtz, H.
Henslow, Prof.  vJ.on,S.,23941..                               Langley, S. P., sun-spots, 240.
Herapath, Dr, of Bristol, 62.                                  Lankester, E. Ray, illustrations of his

                                                               paper, 221.
Heredity, question from Darwin, 180;                           Last days, 48.
                wJ.itFh.  inertia,                             Lectures, preparation of, 45 ; at Cam
    contrasted            W., on    292.
Herschel, Sir                       fluorescence,                 bridge, 95; at School of Mines, 51.
128; on transmission of sound to air,
                                                               Legal scientific assessor, 252.
                                                               Life, origin and development of, 82.
193; question on value of telescope                            Lighthouse illuminants, 257.
aperture, 211 ; on cometary structure,                         Lincei, address from, 439.

    427.                                                       Literary  form,   regard for, 99.
                                                               Lockyer,          Norman, 350, 398--432.
Hilger, A., 272.                                                         Sir J.
Hofmann, A. W. von, on importance of                           Lubrication of journals, theory of, 247.
                                                               Lucasian Professorship, prospect of en
   rapid publication, 145 ; effect of im                          dowment for, 55, 60, 66, 73.
   purities, 259.
Holtzmann on polarization by gratings,

138.                                                           MacCullagh, J., on crystalline reflec

Honours,  SipruJb.licD.a, n1d83s;cireenlatitfiioc,ns43w. ith,     tion, 153 ; on metallic reflection, 191,
Hooker,

221.                                                               365.
                                                               Magnetic influence of auroras, 237.
Hoppe-Seyler on haemoglobin, 163.
Horse-Chestnut bark, experiments, 67.                          Magnification, limits imposed by dif
House of Commons, membership in,                                  fraction, 414; experimentally tested,

44.                                                               415.
                                                               Magnus, G., 148; on Stewart's
Huggins, Sir W., Pres. R.S., address at                                                         theory
   Westminster Abbey, 315; spectroscopy                           of absorption of heat, 199.
    of nebulas, 210.                                           Man, nature and origin of, 85.
                                                               Marriage, 16.
Humphry, Mrs L., notes and recollec                            Maskelyne, N. Story, 202.
   tions, 1.                                                   Mathematical perseverance, 62.
                                                                      ,, Tripos changes, 214 ; type of
Huxley, T. H., on terms of Copley                                                  questions, 216.
   award to Darwin, 169 ; cordial re                                  ,, Tables, Committee on, 395.
   lations with Stokes, 176, 179, 221;                                ,, printing, simplification of, 397.
   fascination of natural theology, 177 ;
   objection to Pres. R. S. sitting in                         MMaatxtwere,ll,indJ.estCr.u,ctirbellea,tio8n0.s with, 217 ;
   Parliament, 177; his religious opinions,
                                                                  succession to him at Cambridge, 227 ;
    102, 351.
Hydraulic brake, 354.

Hygrometry, absolute, 185.                                        on radiometer, 232.
                                                               McLeod, H., 246.
Ice, arctic, flow of, cracks, 238.                             Medal, Helmholtz, 38; Arago,        281;
Immortality, conditional, 88, 109.                                                                 311.
Incandescent gas mantles, 349.                                    Cambridge Jubilee, 281.
Indices of gases determined by diffrac                         Memorial in Westminster Abbey,
                                                               Metallic reflection, 191.
   tion, 358; compared with refraction                         Meteorological Council, 182.
   at high incidence, 359.
Intellectual features, 305.                                    Microscope, early photography by, 423.
                                                               Miller, W. Allen, on early photographed

Jacobi, H. de, on electric units, 193.                             spectra, 159 ; maps, 161.
Jena glass, compared with Harcourt's,
                                                               Miller, W. H., 91, 198.
    325.                                                       Minchin, G. M., on nature of natural
Jets in liquid, 267.                                              radiation, 225.
Jubilee Celebration, 273; portrait busts,                      Mind, type of, 109.
                                                               Mines, lectures at School of, 143.
   278; addresses, 279; congratulations                        Mixture of gases, effect on spectra,
   by telegram, 289.
                                                               406.

474 INDEX TO VOL. I.

Moigno, M. l'Abbe, on proposed lecture      Quartz lens for telescope, 353.
   in Paris, 130.                           Quaternions, Cayley on, 386.
                                            Quincke, G., 189.
Mnrchison, Sir K. I., 143.

Natural phenomena, interest in, 32.         Badiation, its mechanism in gases, 265 ;
Nebula!, photography of, 253.                  of metals, electric spark, 352 ; relation
Newcomb, S., on optical glass, 208.            to temperature, 404 ; theory of natural ,
Newton, Sir I., Pepysian portrait of,          224; conditions for active, 226.
                                            Radio-activity, relation to temperature,
    147 ; mistake in vortex problem, 339 ;  293 ; invariable, 295 ; at low tempera
                                            tures, 296; early guesses as to its
    pure spectrum, 429.                                        297; source of energy, 298.
Newton's rings, black spot, 190 ; on        Baen,atDurreJ, .,  magnetic influence of auroras,

    metals, 190.

Objective, design of perfect, 209 ; visual  237.
   tests of chemically corrected, 409,
422.                                        Bay Club, 91.
                                            Bayleigh, Lord, and Cavendish chair,
O'Brien, M., on Fresnel's imaginaries,
                                               226, 261; address at Westminster

192.                                           Abbey, 318.
                                            Reflection, metallic, plan of experi
Occupations, 59.
                                               ments, 327, 339; theories of Cauchy
Optical chemistry, 259.                        and MacCullagh, 365 ; mode of calcu
    ,, glass, improvement of, 201,             lation, 366; example, 369; influence
   290; value of Harcourt's, 208; titano-
   silicic tried, 325, seems to fail, 333.     of rouge on, 369.
                                            Refraction, theory of selective, 229.
 ,, surfaces, extreme accuracy re           Befractometer, diffraction, for gases,
quired in, 205 ; plane surface provided
by a liquid, 360.                              358; compared with refraction and
                                               grating methods, 359 ; formula,
 , , polarization, from pile of plates,
393; reflecting power of silver deduced        360.
                                            Resistance of fluids, transition in law
from, 367.

,, testing, 410, 418; adjustment            of, 361.

   for eccentric pencils, 420.  of Com      Besolving power of prisms, 333.
Ordnance Survey, secretary                  Reynolds, O., on formation of eddies,
                                            231 ; on theory of radiometer, 232 ;
   mission, 142.                               awarded Royal Medal, 233.
Origin of Species, 169.                     Boborts, I., on nebula), 253.
Outdoor exercises, 94.                      Bobinson, Dr Romney, 15, 324--381.

Panama, tidal currents in a sea-level       Rontgen rays, theory of, 270.
                                            Ross, Major W. A., 218.
    canal, 126.                             Rotation, differential, 157.
Parkes, W., on breakwater, 243.             Boyal Society, connection with, 37, 39 ;
Parliament, service in, 102; circum
                                               activity at, 97 ; Presidency, 101 ;
   stances of election to, 105; objection       Secretary, 142; terms of Copley award
   by Huxley, 177.                             to Darwin, 168 ; procedure in awards,
Personal characteristics, 14.                   173; Sir O. Airy on, 212; address
Pembroke College, enters, 7; affection
   for, 38.                                 from, 439.
Philosophical Transaction*, careful edit
   ing of, 98 ; delay in issue, 145.        Sabine, Sir E., 168, 337.
Phosphorescence, cathodic, of rubies,       Salm-Horstmar, Prince of, 136.
                                            Scenery, activity in preservation, 273.
    355.                                    School years, 5, 6.
Photography, early, with microscope,        Schunck, E., on chlorophyll, 260.
                                            Schuster, A., effect of solar radiation on
    423; light border in, 244.
                                               auroras, 246.
Plücker, J., on magnetic deflection of      Scientific observation, habits of, 20 ;

    luminous discharge, its cause, 372.        researches, absorbed in, 63, 68 ; en
Pole, W., colour vision, 254.                  thusiasm, 92; persistence, 93; generos
Portraits and personal appearance, 12.         ity, 103 ; engagements, stress of,
Potential, Herschel's alternative name,         144; help, 309.
                                            Scientific writings, 114 ; Papers, Col
     193 ; and complex variable, 382.
Practical judgment, 307.                        lected, 322.
Primary colours, definiteness of, 392.      Sharpey, W., 142.
                                            Shaw, W. N., on hygrometry, 185.
Pringsheim, E., on radiation, 265.          Shrewsbury schoolboys, Jubilee address,
Priority, on scientific, 222.
Prism, with curved faces, 330 ; its merits      291.

     tested, 331 ; experimental resolving
    power strictly tested, 333, 337.

                               INDEX TO VOL. I.                                               475

Sidgwick, H., 228.                                   temperature change, 419 ; general ar
                                                     rangements, 421.
Silence and reserve, 13, 105.                     Surface, discussion of singularities of a,

Silver, reflecting power calculated from          Syl3v8e2st;ert,ranJ.sitJi.o,nsonin,re3fe8r4e.es, 220

polarization, 367.
Smith,  DHr .B.,J.priSz.e, s
Smith,                        at Cambridge, 213.  Tabrum, A. H., letters to, 76.
                              on Meteorological   Tait, P. G., 256, 266.
                                                  Talbot's optical bands, papers on, 116;
   Council, 183.
Smithells.Prof.A., 264; personal tribute,             uses of, 118.

266, 430.                                         Tay bridge disaster, 186.
                                                  Telescopes, improvement of, 200 ; con
Solar physics, Committee on, x, 245.
Solar atmospheric pressure, stratifica               struction of great, 204 ; made without
                                                     secondary dispersion, 208; of photo
   tion, 427 ; chromospheric reversals,              graphic, 417; solar, best surroundings,
429 ; prominences, explanation of,
431 ; radiation and sun-spots, 240 ;                  424.
time-relations, 432.                              Telescopic objectives, difficulties with
Sound, transmission to air, 193.
Spark-length, electric, 352.                          large, 327, 347 ; test, 353 ; correction
Spectra, fluorescent, 251 ; short lines,             by separating the lenses, 355 ; dialytic
328 ; in vacuum tubes, variability,                  design worked out, 357 ; permissible
364; disappearance of chlorine, 364;                  defects, 358.
causes of width in lines, effect of
density or reduction of light, 399 ;              TTThhheoeomolloosgoginyc,aalJn.dvJie.,wScsoi,enn4cS6et,,ok1e71s61.--Ju7b9il.ee, 273.
laws of intensity and purity, 403;
uniformity of scale in diffraction, 405 ;         Tides, atmospheric, 339 ; lagging, 343 ;
                                                     currents, 343.
of mixed gases, 406 ; evidence of dis
                                                  Titanic glass, chemistry of, 326.
sociation, 407 ; precautions against              Tower, B., on lubrication, 247.
extraneous lines, 425 ; of comets' tails,         Transparency, ultra-violet, 160.
                                                  Tributes to career, 303.
428; Newton's pure, 428; sodium,                  Turbulent fluid motion, criterion for,

origin of, 94, 429.                                   233.
Spectroheliograph, principle of, 363.             Type-writer, experience with, 104, 239.
Spectroscope, relation of dispersion to           Typical investigations, 319.
   thickness of glass, 380 ; astronomical,
   for ultra-violet, 401 ; limitations of
range, 402 ; use of objective prism,

   408.                                           Umbilici of surfaces, 396.
Spectroscopy, celestial, 209; value of
                                                  Viscosity of rarefied gases, 235.
   aperiure for nebulas, 210.                     Viscous fluid motion, dimensions, 232;
Spectrum, discovery of ultra-violet, 141.
Speculation, attitude towards, 33.                    turbulent, 233.
                                                  Vision, enfeebled in weak light, 263.
Speculum, test for large long-focus, 206.         Voltaic arc seen against the sun, 350.
Spottiswoode, W., 244.

   ,, and Moulton, on electric discharge,

   271.                                           Warburg, E., 236.
Standards, International Bureau, 252.             Wave-front, forward propagation of, 135.
Starch, structure of, 221.

Steam jet, optical absorption of, 428.            Wave-groups, velocity of, 301, 338.
Stewart, Balfour, on laws of absorption,
                                                  Waves, breakwater to resist, 243.
   199 ; actiuometry, 245 ; on aurora,            ,, the motion of the fluid in, 341.
                                                  Wave-surface, singularities of optical,
370.

Stokes, Lady, early letters to, 50--76.           116; negative pedal of, 387 ; singular
Stokes, Kev. W. H., 91.                           tangencies, 3s8 ; lines of curvature,
Strain, analysis of, 158.
St Venant, Barre de, 156.                         389.
                                                  Westminster Abbey memorial, 311.
Suggestions for experiment,    value of           Wiedemann, E., 203 ; fluorescence of
   untried, 120.
                                                     metallic    vapours, 249 ; and           Schmidt,
Summer vacations, 29, 30, 31.                                                                 431.
                                                     G. C,     fJl.uoBre.,sce2n5t8. spectra,
Sunburn from arc-lamp, 350.
Sun's heat, finite duraiion of, 81.               Wigham,
Sun-spot photography, instrumental,               Wilson, W. E., 246.

411 ; magnification, 412, clock move              Wind-pressure on structures, Com
ment essential, 416; re- focussing for
                                                  mittee on, 186.
                                                  Wood, It. W., 251.

        Cambridge: printed by john clay, m.a. at the university

MEMOIR

                                      AND

SCIENTIFIC CORRESPONDENCE

                               OF THE LATE

     Sm GEORGE GABRIEL STOKES, BART.,

                    Sc.D., LL.D., D.C.L., PAST PRES. R.S.,

     KT PRUSSIAN ORDER POUR LE M&RITE, FOR. A8SOC. INSTITUTE OF FRANCE, ETC.
          MASTER OF PEMBROKE COLLEGE AND LUCASIAN PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS
                                              IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE.

                              SELECTED AND AEKANGED BY

           JOSEPH LARMOR, D.Sc., LL.D., SEC.R.S.,

         FELLOW OF ST JOHN'S COLLEGE AND LUCASIAN PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS.

                              VOLUME II.

                                CAMBRIDGE :
                    AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

                                                         1907

             Cambrtoge:
PRINTED BY JOHN CLAY, M.A.

  AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

             CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

III.Section  SPECIAL SCIENTIFIC CORRESPONDENCE.

JAMES CLERK MAXWELL                                      PAGE
                                                              1

JAMES PRESCOTT JOULE                                     46

WILHELM v. HAIDINGER                                     52

JULIUS ROBERT PLUCKER                                    61

THOMAS GRAHAM                                            73

Lord AVEBURY                                             74
Sir HENRY E. ROSCOE                                      80

Rev. W. V. VERNON HARCOURT                               86

Lord RAYLEIGH                                            99

THOMAS ANDREWS                                           126

PETER GUTHRIE TAIT                                       130

Observations of Waves and Swells at Sea.                 133
      Sir EDWARD SABINE

Mr MELSENS                                               135

Capt. W. WATSON                                          141

WILLIAM FROUDE                                           153

Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY                                  159

Sir WILLIAM H. M. CHRISTIE                               193

Extracts from Minutes and Reports of the Meteorological

Council ..                                               197

             167039

vi CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

Pendulums and Gravity Surveys.                         PAGE

Sir EDWARD SABINE                                      253
                                                       278
General J. T. WALKER, R.E                              299
                                                       309
Col. JOHN HERSCHEL                                     313
                                                       315
C. S. PEIRCE                                           325
EDWARD HULL                                            327
                                                       362
E. F. J. LOVE                                          495

ALFRED CORNU                                           501

CHARLES VERNON BOYS

Sir WILLIAM CROOKES

SILVANUS P. THOMPSON  .

Index to Vol. II.

Pembroke College Bust ... ... ... ... ... Frontispiece

                       COEEIGENDA.

Vol. ii. p. 362, line 5, for ramified read rarefied ;
            p. 375 headline, read sensitive.

         SECTION III.

SPECIAL SCIENTIFIC CORBESPONDENCE.

LETTERS FROM JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                     TRINITY COLLEGE, Oct. 3rd,

DEAR SIR,

IWhat                said about chlorophyll was merely a                                                         vague
                                                                                                                 which
remembrance of one out of a number of facts in Chemistry

Professor Gregory mentioned to me last Winter during a visit to
Ihis laboratory.
                     am very sure that he told me of its isolation

Ibut less sure about its colour. He gave me no reference to any

source of information and at that time had no intention of

I Iasking for any.                               have not yet
        have written to him on the subject, but

received an answer.

With respect to my conjecture about Haidinger's brushes,

your statement of it is quite accurate and expresses all that

deserves the name even of conjecture    In August 1850 noted
a

  I

                         is
                                 a

                               I
                                                                                                           -f*.

                                                    I
                                                        I
down some experiments and deductions from them, some of which

are the same with those which have since seen described in

the fourth part of Moigno's Repertoire d'Optique, particularly the

experiment with plate of quartz.                       have had
       have published nothing on the subject. In fact

no opportunity of obtaining sufficient foundation for a theory, and

conjecture best corroborated by the existence of identical or

similar conjectures springing up independently.

                     Yours faithfully,

                     JAS. CLERK MAXWELL.

* Prof. Clerk Maxwell graduated B.A. in the Mathematical Tripos of Jan. 1854.
   Cf. Scientific Papers, vol. p. 242, read at Brit. Assoc., Cheltenham, 1856.
  S. B. II.
t

                                               i.

                                                                                                                                                                  1

2 GEOMETRICAL OPTICS

                                                    TRINITY COLLEGE, Feb. 16, 1856.

       DEAR SIR,

              Professor Forbes writes to me that the chair of Natural
Philosophy at Aberdeen (Marischal College) is vacant, and suggests

Ithat should become a candidate.
   I have no hesitation in acting on that suggestion at once but

I would like to know what sort of men go in, and what chance
I Ithere is of success, because have no wish to have what cannot

get.

   INow as several of your Cambridge acquaintances have obtained

such situations in Scotland & Ireland, thought you might both

know the style of man wanted and whether any such were in the

field and might also have learned the outline of the proper method

of making application.

   I find the presentation belongs to the Crown, that
                                                       &              suppose,

                                                            iIs,
equivalent to the fact that the Home Secretary Lord Advocate

are the proper persons to apply to.

           hope to hear the details from someone who knows mean-
  while have no doubt that anything you could say in my favour
  would have its weight in a certificate or testimonial, so as soon as

     am better acquainted with the matter will write and ask you
    II                                                                ;
      I
II                                                  I
          if

               it
  for one,         wanted.
                   is
       have been trying to simplify the theory of compound Optical
                    II
  Instruments and have been reading up all that can find on
                                                       ?
  that subject*.
                                                          &

                                                             I

                                                                                 is
                   find a great deal in Smith's Opticks that good,

  and also investigations by Euler, Lagrange,          Gauss. Do you

  know of any other researches on this subject

           have greatly simplified the calculation of the foci of anII

  instrument as far as first approximations by considering the

  "principal foci" and "focal centres" of the instrument. In this

  way can begin with two axioms about the possibility of conjugate
  foci, undistorted images, and thence immediately deduce the law
  of conjugate foci and the magnitudes of images in any instrument.

     thus render the theory of instruments independent of the
  particular optical apparatus used in the instrument and make
  no reference to the propositions about refraction at spherical

  surfaces.

    *
                                                i.
       Scientific Papers, vol. pp. 238-240, read at Camb.Phil. Soc.,  May 12, 1856;
ibid.  pp. 271285 from Quar. Journ. Math., Jan. 1858.

                   GENERAL OPTICAL SYSTEM                                 3

      The geometry is very simple and short and all that is necessary
to be remembered is easily expressed in two equations, thus

                                                                       "

   F f\Let l   be  the   principal   foci,  A  1A  2  focal  centres,  PiP 2 con-
                        Qa perp. to  axis,
jugate foci,I\Q!,  P2

     There are several other things in Geometrical Optics that

I find worth examining.

    A modification of the same method seems applicable to the

I Icase of small oblique & excentric pencils.
        hope do not trouble you in the first part of this letter.

You must understand that I do not wish to trouble you now, but

Imerely to inform you of my design and to intimate that if went
Ithrough with it might find it necessary to write to you for your

certificate as Professor.

                                     Yours truly,

                                               J. C. MAXWELL.

                                     THIN. COLL., Feb. 22nd, 1856.

DEAR SIR,

         I Ihave received your two letters.                  acted upon your

advice with regard to Lord Aberdeen by asking Alex. Herschel

to get his father to tell Lord Aberdeen that my case was worth

attending to. Two of my friends are writing to two friends of the

Lord Advocate. So much for private influence. With respect to
testimony, I should think my friends are all saying their utmost
Iin my favour judging by the specimens have received. I am
Iobliged to you for promising me a testimonial. As am told it
Iis important to be early hope you will send it soon.
   I have received two applications myself for testimonials.              I in-

tend to write out my estimate of the men and leave it to them to

Iconsider whether they will use it at once or wait till another time.

        find the nearest thing to my optical propositions in Smith's

Optics.  You will find a good description of a stereoscopic experi-

                                                        12

4 ELECTROTONIC STATE

ment in vol. ii. page 388 and in the " Remarks," page 108. Miller
has lent me a paper by Listing on the Dioptrics of the Eye, which

looks like good optics as well as anatomy.
I have set up a reflecting stereoscope* on a new plan and am
Iusing it for lectures on Solid Geometry.                            have worked out a

curve with the locus of the centre of the circle of curvature of

the sphere of curvature ; the curve is

                  x = 4a cos3 6, y = 4a sin3 0, z = 3a cos 20.

IIt is the best curve know to explain everything on, for all the

results have simple expressions.
I read the second part of my paper on Faraday's "lines of
fforce  "                                                            It is an examination
        "  aEtletchterotPohniliocsosptahtieca"l   some weeks ago.
of the                                           and an application  of the mathematical
Iexpression of it to the solution of problems.
                                                                     have not got it

into shape owing to other things on hand, Aberdeen among the

Irest ; but the first part, which is entirely elementary, consider
Iintelligible without professional mathematics, and would like to
Iknow if a somewhat long investigation of the strict theory of the
lines of force would be acceptable in the Phil. Mag.\                          want to

get Tyndall and Faraday to read it. Thomson has read it. It

requires attention and imagination but no calculation, at least

Ithat is all done by me and put in the form of diagrams of the
lines.     have no more time just now.

                                                 Yours truly,

Is it true that Cayley is going in ?             J. C. MAXWELL.

                                                 129, UNION STREET, ABERDEEN.

MY DEAR STOKES,                                                      Vlth Jan., 1857.

           IAlthough am not likely to be much in London, I am
fully sensible of the
Royal Society, and     honour and                advantages          of belonging to the
                                                 am much             flattered with your
                       therefore I
Iremembrance of me in connection with that body.
                                                                               do not
If Iknow whether your office precludes you from proposing a candidate.
    not, then in the event of my coming forward should be glad
of your paternity.

    * See Scientific Papers, vol. ii. p. 148 (1867) footnote. The curve in the
reference following has not been traced.

   t Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 155229.
   t Phil. Mag. 1861-2 : Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 451513 The formal

memoir is in Phil. Trans., Oct. 27, 1864 ; Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 526-597.

              APPARATUS FOR COLOUR-VISION                5

    With respect to the composition, I have no immediate prospect
of anything in the way of a paper for you. I have made preparations

for an analysis of the colours of the spectrum with respect to the
sensations they produce, but it is doubtful whether anything pre-
sentable will be produced this summer*.

   I constructed an instrument 2 feet long which acts very well
Ias a portable instrument of illustration, but must make great

Iprogress before come into the field with such men as Helmholtz.

Have you seen his physiology of the eye in Karstens Encyc. ?

I hope he will give his last words on colour and sensation in

the next fasciculus.

   ISo my conclusion is that am desirous of joining, but not yet.
II would rather wait a year if you think the same as do.

     My fingers are frozen and the post is ready.

                                                  Yours truly,

                                                  J. C. MAXWELL.

                        GLENLAIR, SPRINGHOLM, DUMFRIES,

DEAR STOKES,            8th, May, 1857.

           In conversing with Prof. Smyth of Edinburgh about his

excursion to Teneriffe and his experiments on the solar spectrum,

it occurred to me that the method which I arranged last year for

exhibiting the mixture of the colours of the spectrum might be

made useful in experiments on the spectrum by travellers and

out-of-door observers.

My portable instrument consists of a wooden box 24 x 6 x 4 inch

inside measure. The light enters at slits at the end of the box

and falls on a prism at the other end. After refraction it is

reflected by a concave mirror back through the same faces of the

prism, and finally forms a pure spectrum near the place of

entrance.

    * For his earliest work, at Cambridge, Nov. 1854, with historical references, see
Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 119 125 under date Jan. 4, 1855. This is followed by
a memoir in Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin., and a note in Phil. Mag. June, 1857

 6 COLOUR BOX

     In my arrangement the light enters at the side and is reflected

by a small plane mirror, the prism is equilateral and of glass, and
the mirror is a lens silvered at the back of about 1 foot focal
length by reflexion. For the refrangible light, the light should
 enter directly at the end of the box, the prism should be quartz,
and the mirror metallic with a tool for repolishing.

    I found this arrangement give a very large and distinct

spectrum. The prism should be cleaned well and the mirror
adjusted to make the reflexion in the plane of refraction. Then
the focussing is done by turning the prism on its axis, which gives
a very long range of focal lengths, and different parts of the
spectrum are examined by turning the mirror and prism (which
are on the same frame) together.

     There should be a finder outside the box in the fashion of an
alidade or better a spectacle glass at one end and a mark for the
sun's image at the other.

      Fluorescent substances may be viewed by looking down from
the side of the box, and photographic materials might be slid into
the same place.

     The main advantage is the getting rid of the long rays inclined
at an angle and the boxes to hold them. They are all doubled up

Iand put in one box. am going to try a new plan for comparative

trials of different mixtures of light.

     The various light is to be admitted by slits as in other
experiments and sent through two different angles
of the same prism and reflected by two mirrors

separately. Thus an eye looking into a mirror M

will see the two sides of the prism coloured in two
different ways, and will give judgement on the difference.

     Can you give me references to the experiments of Foucault,

Fizeau, and others if any ? 1st, on the velocity of light in air,

2nd, comparative velocity in air and water, and 3rd, comparative
velocity in water running opposite ways.

DYNAMICAL TOP: SATURN S RINGS

      Moigno's Repertoire & his Cosmos are the only authorities

I know of.

   I have had a dynamical top* of brass made at Aberdeen and

have been simplifying the theory of the motion of the " invariable
axis " (normal to invariable plane) in the body. The extremity of
this axis describes spherical ellipses about the greatest or least

principal axes, and the areas (projected on coordinate planes)

described about these axes are proportional to the number of

Irevolutions of the body about that axis (not to the absolute time).
   have made some very delicate experiments with the top, to

exhibit these movements, and it appears to be very little disturbed

by accidental causes even when the difference of principal axes
Iis less than 3^.
                   have also succeeded in setting the axis on the

path leading to the mean axis so that the axis approached the

mean axis for a considerable time before it left it for ever.

                                   Yours truly,

                                        J. C. MAXWELL.

    Is it nitrate of strontian which becomes doubly absorbent when
crystallized out of logAvood infusion?

                   GLENLAIR, SPRINGHOLM, DUMFRIES,

DEAR STOKES,                                                   Sept. *Jtk, 1858.

     I am just finishing  my essay on Saturn's Rings f, and

there is a problem in it about a set of fluid rings revolving each

with its proper velocity with friction against its neighbours. Now
I am in want of the coefficient of internal friction in water and in
Iair, in order to condescend to numbers.
                                          have your paper on
Ipendulums, but it is locked up at Aberdeen, so have written
Ito you rather than wait till go.
It is the coefficient B of your paper on elasticity and fluid

friction, that is the number of units of force acting tangentially

on unit of area sliding with unit of relative velocity past a fluid

plane at unit of distance, stating units of force and length.
II think you have got it somewhere at hand.
                                             have not.
IIt is not long since began to do mathematics after a some-
Iwhat long rest.
                   have set up a neat model for showing the

    * Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 245262, from Brit. Assoc. Report, 1856 ; and
Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. 1857, with application to Earth's free precession.

   t Adams Prize Essay for period 1855-7 ; Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 286376.

8 MEAN FREE PATH IN GASES

disturbances among a set of satellites forming a ring. It was

Imade by Ramage of Aberdeen, who made my dynamical top.
         have done no optics this summer, but have been vegetating
in the country with success.

                               Yours truly,

                                     JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                 GLENLAIR, SPRINGHOLM, DUMFRIES,
                                                                                          30 May, 1859.

     DEAR STOKES,

         I saw in the Philosophical Magazine of February, '59,

a paper by Clausius on the " mean length of path of a particle
of air or gas between consecutive collisions," on the hypothesis of
the elasticity of gas being due to the velocity of its particles and
of their paths being rectilinear except when they come into
close proximity to each other, which event may be called a
collision.

    The result arrived at by Clausius is that of N particles Ne l

reach a distance greater than nl where I is the " mean path " and
that

where s is the radius of the " sphere of action " of a particle, and

N the number of particles in unit of volume.

INate.  find  - = J^N*.L

IAs we know nothing about either s or N, thought that it

might be worth while examining the hypothesis of free particles

acting by impact and comparing it with phenomena which seem
Ito depend on this " mean path."
                                  have therefore begun at the

beginning and drawn up the theory of the motions and collisions

of free particles acting only by impact, applying it to internal

friction of gases, diffusion of gases, and conduction of heat through

a gas (without radiation). Here is the theory of gaseous friction
with its results

* Of. Scientific Papers, vol. i. Editorial notes to pp. 387, 392, 405.

                 KOUGH ESTIMATES IN GAS-THEORY                       9

   ivide the gas into layers on each side of the plane in which

you measure the friction, and suppose the tangential motion
uniform in each layer, but varying from one to another. Then
particles from a layer on one side of the plane will always be
darting about, and some of them will strike the particles belonging
to a layer on the other side of the plane, moving with a different

mean velocity of translation.
     Now though the velocities of these particles are very great

and in all directions, their mean velocity, that of their centre of
gravity, is that of the layer from which they started, so that the
other layer will receive so many particles per second, having a
different velocity from its own.

     Taking the action of all the layers on one side and all the

Ilayers on the other side find for the force on unit of area

                                         dr

Where M = mass of a particle, N no. of particles in unit of volume,

I = mean path, and  v = mean  molecular                       (ill   of
                                         velocity, and -^- velocity
'
            Now you put
 slipping.

                              dr

                              MNlv = plv.

ow                                  '8k

                         v

jand if we take

    V& = 930 feet per second, v = 1505 feet per second,

 nd if           A/V    = '116 in inches & seconds,
                      p
we find
                      -1 =    - of an inch,

ind the number of collisions per second

                                                8,077,000,000,

for each particle.
     The rate of diffusion of gases depends on more particles

passing a given plane in one direction than another, owing to one
gas being denser towards the one side, and the other towards the

other.

10 FRICTION IN GASES INDEPENDENT OF THE PRESSURE

It appears that I should be the same                         for all pure gases at the
                                         I
                                                    [?]
same pressure and temperature, but have found only a very few

experiments by Prof. Graham on diffusion through measurable

apertures, and these seem to give values of much larger than
                                                              I

that derived from friction.

should think would be very difficult to make experiments
I                      it

  II I                             a
on the conductivity of gas so as to eliminate the effect of
              is
radiation from the sides of the containing vessel, so that this would

not give so good method of determining
                      a                               is it I.

                              if                              is
                do not know how far such speculations may be found to

agree with facts, even                   they do not              well to know that

Clausius' (or rather Herapath's) theory wrong*, and at any rate
as found myself able and willing to deduce the laws of motion

of systems of particles acting on each other only by impact,
   have done so as an exercise in mechanics. Now do you think

there any so complete a refutation of this theory of gases as

would make        it  absurd to investigate                  further so as to found
                                         j

                                                    it

                                                                                            ?
arguments upon measurements of strictly "molecular" quantities

before we know whether there be any molecules One curious

result that           independent of the density, for
is is             //,
                                         = M, N,,lv = -^Mv-.
      a              is

                                      ^

This certainly very unexpected, that the friction should be as

great in rare as in a dense gas. The reason                       is,  that in the rare

gas the mean path greater, so that the frictional action extendsis

to greater distances.

Have you the means of refuting this result of the hypothesis                                   ?
Of course my particles have not all the same velocity, but the                                   ?

velocities are distributed according to the same formula as the;

Iferrors are distributed in the theory of least squares.

         two sets of particles act on each other the mean vis viva of
a particle will become the same for both, which implies, that equal
volumes of gases at same press, and temp, have the same number of

I
                      is,
                                                      a

                                          I
                                             I

                                                                           is

                                                                                                                                     I.

                                                                                            it
particles, that are chemical equivalents. This                         one satisfactory
result at least.

         have been rather diffuse on gases but have taken to the
subject for mathematical work lately and am getting fond of
and require to be snubbed little by experiments, and have

                                         * i.e. inadequate.

EXPERIMENTS ON COLOUR MIXTURE                        11

Ionly a few of Prof. Graham's, quoted by Herapath, on diffusion so

that am tolerably high-minded still.

    I had a colour-blind student last season who was a good
Istudent and a prizeman so got pretty good observations out of

him. Any four colours can be arranged, three against one, or two

against two, so as to form an equation to a colour-blind eye.

I took 6 colours, Red, Blue, Green, Yellow, White, Black, and

formed the 15 sets of four of them a,nd tried 14 of these by

the help of my student, making no suggestions of course to him,

I Iafter had instructed him in the things to be observed.
        then found the most probable values of the 3 equations,

which ought to contain the whole 15, and then deducing the

15 equations from the 3 1 found them very near the observed

ones, the average error being 2 hundredths of the circle on

each colour observed, and much less where the colours were
Ivery decided to a colour-blind eye.
                                      hope to see him again

next year.

   I suppose we shall hear something of the theory of absorption
of light in crystals from you in due time. I hope Cambridge

takes an interest in light in May.

              Yours truly,

                   JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

              GLENLAIR, SPRINGHOLM, DUMFRIES,

                                      1859, Oct. 8.

DEAR STOKES,

I Ireceived your letter some days ago.  intend to

arrange my propositions about the motions of elastic spheres in

Ia manner independent of the speculations about gases, and shall

probably send them to the Phil. Magazine*, which publishes a good

deal about the dynamical theories of matter & heat. 1 have not

Idone much to it since wrote to you, as all my optical observations

must be done when I have sun and that is getting lower every

day. But I think I have made as much optical hay as will make

a small bundle for you as Secretary R. S., some time in winter

Iif you can tell me under what forms it should be sent in. would

    * Phil. Mag. Jan. and July, 1860, read at Brit. Assoc. Aberdeen, Sept. 1859;
Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 377 409. Formal memoirs on gas-theory, Phil Trans.
1865-6 ; Scientific Papers, vol. ii. pp. 178.

12 PRIMARY COLOURS AND DIAGRAM OF COLOURS

call it On the Relations of the Colours of the Spectrum as seen by

the Human Eye.
I IAs have only lately reduced some of my observations cannot
IIsay what more results may come to, but                shall tell you the

present state of affairs that you may judge whether it is better to
show it up at once or to keep it a year till the experiments are

Imore numerically formidable.                           mix 3 colours
     My experiments have been of this nature.

of the spectrum so as to produce a white equal to a given white,

thus        18-4 (24) + 30-7 (44) + 30 (68) = W

where the numbers in brackets denote the position of the colour

in the spectrum and the coefficient denotes the quantity of that

            red green  blue

Icolour. (24) (44) & (68) are the 3 standards of colour which
  have taken.
Then I take any other colour say (28) of my scale and mix
Iwith 44 & 68 to produce the same white in quality and intensity
as before.  get

            16 (28) + 25-2 (44) + 29'7 (68) = W.

Subtracting one from the other

            16 (28) = 18-4 (24) + 5'5 (44) + 03 (68)

                                            80
                       Extreme Violet

                                                        line F

Red*

                                                   32
                                                Yellow

                  DIFFERENCES IN COLOUR-VISION                                   13

which gives the relation of (28) to the 3 standard colours, and

IIfrom this can place it in Newton's diagram when have fixed
Ithe three standards anywhere. In this way have laid down

16 points of the spectrum with great care from observations by

Imyself and two others, and 15 intermediate points from observa-

tions by myself, and find,

     1st, the spectrum forms a curve which is not a circle as Newton
imagined but two sides of a triangle with doubtful portions at
each end of the third side. This shows that all the colours can

be made of three, which are marked (24) (46) & (64). These
being the purest colours in the spectrum and therefore in nature

may be reckoned standard colours, although they may not coincide
with those assumed at first to guide the experiments.

    I(The position of these colours is different for different observers,

and find real differences of large amount between the results of
different eyes in certain parts of the spectrum. The figure is

Ifrom the results of a very good observer.)
         determined the wave-length in air for the different divisions
of the spectrum by observing the bands seen by analysing light
reflected from a thin plate of air giving a retardation of 41 un-

Idulations for the line D, and comparing with Fraunhofer's measures.
   thus found for the different divisions

                                    Wave -length
                      20 2450

                      24 2328

                      44 1951

                      46 1924

                      64 1721

                      68 1688

and so on.

    I propose to give a short geometrical theory of Newton's

diagram of colours, and to lay down the spectrum upon
       I                                                                         and
                 iIf 3

                                is a
                                                                              ;

                                                         it

                                                         I it,
so to establish a method of ascertaining the colour produced by

any mixture of any number of colours in the spectrum.                          have

come on great differences between different observers but they all

agree in having primary colours, though they differ in defining

them.  can make colour which, placed beside white, looks

Fgreen to one and red to another the reason being, that the space
just before the line  dim to all but much dimmer to one than

another, so that      mix this with red will be neutral red

14 DICHROMATIC VISION

Ifand greeD according to the degree of obscurity of this part of the
spectrum.  you think any of these results proper aliment for
Ithe Royal Society pray tell me how I may administer it in due

form, as do not purpose to be in London.

   IThe subject is one about which we have had conversation

before, so that have not thought it necessary to do more than

indicate new results as you know by what method they must be

obtained and how they are expressed in Newton's method.

                  I remain, Yours truly,

                           J. CLERK MAXWELL.

After the 25th Oct. address Aberdeen.

                           MARISCHAL COLLEGE,

                                      ABERDEEN, 1859, Dec. 24.

DEAR STOKES,
           I have addressed to you as Secretary of the Royal

Society an abstract of my paper on the Colours of the Spectrum.
I have the paper itself in a presentable form and can send it also
Iif required, but do not wish it to be considered as finished yet,
Ifor am getting more apparatus and expect to do more before
Ilong. If my present paper could be considered as Part I. of a
more complete one it would answer best for me.                                     suppose the
ISociety will send back the MS. of the paper if send
                                                                                   so thatit,

may refer to in preparing a second part, for some of the tables                      I
I
   I it

              I

                        it
                                       is

                                  I

                                        I
in are the result of calculations which do not wish to go over

again without good cause, and have not yet taken copies.

An optician here  making me a reflecting colour apparatus

with which intend to get colour-blind equations among the
prismatic colours which will determine accurately the missing

colour.

intend to produce whites with one fixed colour and one

variable one, and so find the neutral point of the spectrum and

Ifthe two points of greatest intensity of colour as seen by my
observer.  afterwards Mr Pole should wish to try experiments

have no doubt the instrument could be sent up to him, as am
II
               it
                                 3

                                a
                                              6
                                        x
                                                     x
                                                                       5

                                                       it

                                                                               is
making strong, so as to be portable,

           feet   9^- in.  in. in dimensions.

should think quartz prism of 35 or so with one side ground

INFLUENCE OF OCULAR ABSORPTION ON COLOUR- VISION 15

convex, radius 20 or 30 inches and well silvered, would   make  a
good instrument for analysing the more refrangible rays.

                             I remain, Yours truly,

              J. C. MAXWELL.

              MARISCHAL COLLEGE,

              ABERDEEN, 1860, Jan. 3.

DEAR STOKES,

I have sent you my paper on the Colours of the Spectrum,
I If Iwhich is as complete as hope to make it*.
                                                 do anything

more worth publishing it will be upon dichromatic vision, with
reference to the spectrum, and I shall not have light for it before
IMarch, even if get my instrument into good order, and find
Ia convenient time for the observer and myself.
                                                 have written

out the theory of Newton's diagram, and its relation to the

method of representing colours by lines, drawn from a point

in various directions. I have described the method of observation

Iand its results as given by two observers, and explained what
   believe to be the reason of the differences between them, which

are very far beyond any errors of observation, but appear to me
to arise from unequal absorption of certain rays by media which
are more absorptive in some eyes than others, and not from
any radical difference in the sensations excited by the different

rays.

   IThough expect to get better observations by taking more
I Ipains, believe the results which send you to be not far from
Ithe truth, and certainly I think have evidence that the spectrum

on Newton's diagram is a triangular figure, with one side broken

Iout. So that if the R. S. is willing, am ready to put my name

to the paper and have it printed. I have copied out all that

I Ishall need in the way of tables, &c., so shall not want it back.
I Ihave addressed it to Cambridge as do not know whether the

Royal Society meets about this time.

              I remain, Yours truly,

              J. CLERK MAXWELL.

     * Bakerian Lecture read March 22, 1860; Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 410444.
Also Roy. Inst. lecture, May, 1861.

16 EOYAL SOCIETY BAKERIAN LECTURE

                    MARISCHAL COLLEGE,
                            ABERDEEN, 1860, Feb. 25.

      DEAR STOKES,

         I have received yours of yesterday and am much honoured

by the Council of the Royal Society in being appointed Bakerian
Lecturer.

   I am not aware of the constitution or laws of the Bakerian

Lectureship, but from what I have read under the title of Bakerian
Lectures I suppose that the Lecturer reads in the ordinary way

the paper which the Council have honoured with the title of
Lecture, and that his duties are then over.

   I Icannot leave Aberdeen till April, but after that shall be
Iable to go to London.

       should myself prefer the 19th April if that would suit the

Society.

   IThe instrument used in summer is not at all portable but
I have now got a reflecting one,

                    3 ft. 6 in. x 11 in. x 4,

I Iwhich is warranted to be safe when turned upside down and
moderately jolted.  have not had much sun but find that

a certain uniform cloud which we have sometimes is not bad for

Iobservations, and have had one set of observations from a colour-

Iblind gentleman who spent a day in Aberdeen and two sets from

a colour-blind student from whom expect about 3 sets a week

till the degree examinations interfere with optics.
    They are both perfect cases like Mr Pole's, and the student

is a good observer. Both agree that the neutral point of the

Fspectrum is near and the student sees a dark cloud in the axis
Iof vision when he looks at this light just as do myself.

All less refrangible light is yellow, all more refrangible blue,

Iand by equating white to selected pairs of colours from each side
of the spectrum,    propose to determine the brightness and

blueness and yellowness of every point of the spectrum, in terms
Iof two selected colours. Before April
                                               shall have probably

ascertained the accuracy of the observations arid got some normal
observations with the same instrument to compare with them.

   If I should be able to arrive at results and to communicate
Ithem to the Society before go up, would it be lawful to append

them (with proper date) to the former paper ?

                       ON COLOUR-VISION                  17

 I Isuppose had better prepare one or two diagrams and bring

e instrument with me.

 If I Ihave mistaken what have to do pray let me know, and

the 19th April will not do, then any day after that will do

>r me.                   I remain, Yours very truly,

                         J. C. MAXWELL.

                         MARISCHAL COLLEGE,

                         ABERDEEN, 1860, March 12.

DEAR STOKES,

           If it is found necessary for the convenience of anyone
to have the day changed from the 19th April, I am willing to
Icome on the 26th, but cannot go to London at all at any later
Itime.     should prefer the 19th to the 26th if it should turn

out equally convenient for Dr Sharpey to have his lecture at a
different time, but if the 19th secures advantages to the Croonian

Lecture which are not to be had afterwards (such as the presence
of a man like Kolliker) then do not scruple to change my day

Ito the 26th as my reasons are all private. After the 26th should
Iprefer to have it read in absence by deputy, for
I can go up after that time.                       do not think

IWhat are the rules about one who is not a fellow reading
a paper ?  see the Bakerian lecturer is called one of the fellows^
Iin the foundation, but
                         suppose from what you say that an

extraneous person may deliver it.               with the fixed
                                                could get one
   I have seen a large diagram of the spectrum
lines in various lecture rooms. Do you think I

in London to point to during lecture in order to indicate the

colours to be mixed ?

   I hope to have the triangle of colour ready on a large scale in

time for the lecture.

   My colour-blind student has been ill some time and I have got

no more observations.

              I remain, Yours truly,

                         J. CLERK MAXWELL.

   I have had a letter from a colour-blind man in Manchester

and expect to hear more of his case in answer to my reply.

S.B. II.                                              2

 18 DICHROMATIC VISION

                                           Care of J. MACCUNN, ESQ.

                                                                                         ARDHALLOW, DUNOON.

                                                                                     23 April, 1860.

       DEAR STOKES,

          III had hopes when last wrote to you that should have

 got a considerable number of colour-blind observations of the
spectrum, from a last year's student. Unfortunately he fell ill
just when the bright weather came and only recovered at the end

Iof the session, so got his observations for two days only, but as

these seem pretty consistent perhaps they might be worth re-
ducing and publishing till some one finds a better opportunity to
observe. The results are very similar to those of another gentleman

Iwhom tried on a cloudy day. Here are the results.
    f FTaking a green at the line E and a blue from towards G

as arbitrary standard colours, the first appears " yellow " the
second " blue " to the colour-blind. The red end of the spectrum
is visible as far to them as to us, using a blue glass to cut off the
bright part of the spectrum, but the colour is "yellow" apparently

of the same kind as that produced by a very narrow aperture at E

in the green. In order to apply my ordinary method we must

have enough of the colour to produce the standard white when
combined with blue, and this cannot be done without taking all
the light from the end of the spectrum to the line D.

     Now this quantity of light which to our eyes is much brighter
than the standard white, requires an addition of blue to make it
equal to white to the colour-blind, showing that the red end is
very feeble in its effects upon them.

     The quality of the colour of this end of the spectrum, as shown
by the quantity of blue required to produce the standard white,
seems to be nearly uniform from the extremity as far as a point

Fhalf-way between E & and is what the colour-blind call "yellow."

The quantity or intensity as shown by the amount of the given
colour required to neutralise the blue is very small up to D, is

greatest at f from D to E, and then diminishes.

     This part of the spectrum therefore is nearly uniform in colour,
and any part may be taken as a representative of " yellow " by
a colour-blind person.

   J JFFrom between E & to from F towards G the colour

is to them a mixture of blue and yellow, being neutral close to F.

DEFECTIVE COLOUR SPECTRUM                    19

FNear the intensity is feeble, so that three times the breadth

of slit is required to produce white when compared with the
breadth at the standards. Also in viewing a uniform field of this
colour the "yellow spot" of the retina is seen dark on a light

ground.

   FFrom the point ^ from to G to the end of the spectrum the
Fcolour seems quite pure blue, increasing in intensity to f from

   to G and then diminishing, but being visible as far as we see it

and apparently as bright.

    Comparing my observations with these I find

J.C.M.    Eed Green Blue
   J.S.
         22-6 + 26-0 + 37-4 = W
                   33*7 331 = W

-D = 22-6 (R) 7-7 (0) + 4-3 (B).

The colour which if it could be exhibited we would see and

they would not is a red with a little blue, and purged of that
green (or " yellow ") which renders it still visible to them.

                 11G 112 108 104 100 % 92 88 84 80 76 72 68 64 60 56 52 48 44

   I send you a plan of the spectrum according to my student,

showing the intensity of blue & of yellow at different points of

Ithe spectrum. I find my new instrument is not altered by being

Icarried about so that if find any more subjects can compare

them wherever they are.

                   I remain, Yours truly,

                                          J. CLERK MAXWELL.

     After the 30th April my address will be Glenlair by Dumfries.
     The curve on the right represents the amount of the " blue "

element and that on the left the " yellow " element of colour in

different parts of the spectrum as seen by the colour-blind. The

dotted line is the sum of the elements.  22

20 INFLUENCE OF ABSORPTION ON COLOUR-VISION

                        GLENLAIR, SPRINGHOLM, DUMFRIES,

                              May 7, 1860.

DEAR STOKES,

         I sent you this morning an account of observations by

Mr James Simpson, on the colours of the spectrum, and also

a comparison of his observations on coloured papers with mine.

It is not very easy to find colour-blind persons who know what is
required to make good observations. If Mr Simpson had not

been in ill health, and by no means strong when he observed the

spectrum, I would have been able to send you colour-blind equations

better than most ordinary ones. However they are really very
Igood and certainly correct in the main features.
                                                   still believe

that the great difficulty ID comparing eyes of either the dichromic

or the trichromic type lies in the absorptive power of the media
of the eye, especially the yellow spot, the seat of " Haidinger's

brushes."

    Observations of colours near the line F are extremely unsatis-

factory, as the brightness and even colour of the field vary with

the direction of the axis of the eye.

    It is very remarkable that this peculiarity should be confined

Ito a small portion of the spectrum while neighbouring parts, very
similar in colour, show nothing of the kind.  expect that if
I could get enough of the yellow material of the spot to try it,

it would cut a dark band out of the spectrum near F, and that in

a very marked manner. Do you know whether there is any other

more abundant yellow substance of the same composition in the

animal kingdom ? for if it is peculiar to a small spot on the

thinnest part of the human retina, my conscience recoils from

the amount of slaughter necessary to verify my conjecture.

With respect to comparisons of brightness of dissimilar colours.
I find all my observers decline to say which of two very different
Icolours is brightest.
                        have made attempts to compare white
with pure colours, and the result is that if I make red (e.g.} and

Iwhite equal in brightness (that is = in impressing my eye with

a sense of something being there), find that the red requires

green and blue to be added to it to neutralise it and still is not
brighter than the white with which it was compared ; thus if

                        R= W

& R+G+B< W

              BREWSTER'S THEORY OF COLOUR       21

Isomething must be wrong.   think positive colours have more

justice done them by the eye than white light.
I was some time ago doubtful about presenting myself as
Ifa candidate to the R. S.
                            you could get me placed as a

candidate for admission according to the rules of the society

I should be much obliged to you, in addition to the thanks
I owe you for your advice as to my paper and other optical

cooperation.

                           Yours truly.

                            J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                      GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE, DUMFRIES.

     DEAR STOKES,

         I have just received your letter of the 19th May which

went astray owing to its being addressed to Aberdeen. My safest

Iaddress is always as above but have written to Aberdeen to put

them right.

   I wrote an abstract of my postscript and sent it to Dr Sharpey.
   In my paper I avoided making any definite statement as to

the view taken by Sir D. Brewster of the composition of light.

I think he regards the three elements of colour as objective
Irealities or actual substances of which the light is compounded.

  consider them as properties of homogeneous rays having reference
to the human organ of vision whether dichromic or trichromic.

     On the one theory it is conceivable that absorption may alter
the proportions of the elements in a ray of the pure spectrum.
On the other theory it can only have the same effect as weaken-
ing the light in any other way.

    This is the field of a controversy into which I have not
Ientered, as have not yet sufficient experiments to prove that

absorption always acts in the same way as simple weakening of

the light.

    I also avoid stating Sir D. Brewster's method of drawing
Icurves, as he is not very distinct about them, and in cases of this

sort think that his methods of observation are sometimes much

better than his description seems to indicate, so that if you go by

the description merely you will find that you are under-rating the
forces of the enemy and may require to modify a statement.

22 EXPERIMENTS REGARDING THE UNIVERSALITY

I shall endeavour to state the difference of the two theories by

making one very distinct and stating the other in its own words

J Konly.                                  I shall
    II.
and are two different observers,                   try to dis-
Itinguish them properly when get proofs.
III. Unless the curve of the spectrum has angular points no

colour in it represents a primary.

   I Ifear oxen and sheep have no yellow spot, at least never
Ifound it. They have plenty of glittering tapetum but must

consult anatomists to see what animals have the yellow spot.

   I Ihave not been in Cambridge since you left Pembroke, so

am not sure whether your residence derives its name from the

lenticular form of its enclosure, and if I address right under that

Iimpression.

       think it would be worth while to select some portions of the
spectrum and determine their heating power, also their action on
various chemicals, and their red, green and blue luminous elements
and their fluorescent effects on various things, so as to prove that
if the wave-length and the heating power remain the same every-
thing else will be the same, whatever modifications the light may

have undergone.

                 Yours truly,

                          J. C. MAXWELL.

                 GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE,

                                          1862, Sept. 10.

DEAR STOKES,

II send you reports on Dr Robinson's papers.       did not

know that the reciprocating discharge in a closed glass vessel had
been tried and found to exhibit the lines of the constituents of

Iglass.
        have been comparing the results of colour observations by
different eyes in order to see whether they can be reduced to a

single diagram by altering the mode of projection, that is taking
different units of the standard colours.

   I I Ifind that get consistent results in the three cases have

tried but that the numbers by which the coordinates must be

multiplied vary from one to three, so that if we suppose one

person to see blue three times stronger relative to green than

OF THE SAME PRIMARY COLOURS                       23

Ianother person, we get consistent results.  find that the centre

and circumference of my retina differ, so that white appears bluer

to the retina generally than to the centre and therefore the colour

complementary to red is of higher refrangibility for the retina
Ithan for its centre.
                       cannot perceive any difference in merely
looking at white paper, but I suppose any constant difference in

different parts of the retina can be discovered only by reason as it

Iwould not be an object of perception. By choosing a standard

eye, or taking an average, could express the facts of colour vision

in two diagrams :

1st, a triangle of colour giving relations in the quality of

colours and the same for all eyes.

2nd, a curve representing the intensity of colour at each

point of the spectrum. This curve is different for different eyes

and for different parts of the same eye. These differences may

arise from absorption of certain rays before they reach the retina.

Irregularities in the curve extending over small spaces are probably

of this sort. There may also be differences in the sensibility of the

nerves to particular sensations. This would account for inequali-

ties extending over entire regions of colour in a regular manner.
     The fact that all colours lie nearly in two straight lines makes

it impossible to assign the exact position of the sensation defective

in the colour blind. It lies in the production of the line joining

green with the extreme red, but its exact position differs according

to the normal person with whom the colour-blind eye is com-

pared, and colour-blind eyes differ as much with regard to intensity

of different colours as normal eyes do.

                       Yours truly,

                            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                                            8 PALACE GARDENS TERRACE, LONDON, W.

                                                                     1864, May 6.

     DEAR STOKES*,

         I have your letter and my paper. Fizeau does not lean

with confidence on any theory of the dependence of the rotation

     * Maxwell's memoir on the Electrodynamic Field was communicated to the
Royal Society on October 27, 1864; cf. next following letter. In a letter to
Sir W. Huggins of date 1867, printed in Phil. Trans. 1868, p. 532, he considers
the general problem of the influence of the Earth's motion on optical phenomena.
For further references cf. Larmor, Aether and Matter, p. 14.

24 OPTICAL EFFECTS OF EARTH'S MOTION

of the plane of polarization on the velocity -ratio of propagation in

the media.

The rotation of course depends on the ratios of intensity of

rays polarized in different planes and passing through the inclined

plate.

You have proved that on Fresnel's theory the direction of the

refracted ray is not affected by the motion of the aether.

Have you or Jamin or anyone else done anything towards the

determination of the intensity ?

Fizeau rests his calculation on experiments with plates of

I I Idifferent indices of refraction.      am able to do the
        am not inclined and do not think

dynamical theory of reflexion and refraction on different hypo-

I Itheses : and unless see some good in getting it up, would

rather gather the result from men who have gone into the

subject.

   If Fizeau has really found a phenomenon related to the earth's

motion in space or rather in the luminiferous medium, a great
deal may be founded upon it independently of a good optical

theory.                                                         the

   I Ifthink M. Faye corroborates Fizeau's experiment.
experiment is good it would be worth the while of an eminent

astronomical observer to have the instrument properly mounted,
and to work for a year determining frequently the direction and
(proportional) velocity of the rush of aether through his observa-

Itory, and so to have a log book of the earth's motion.
         have been reading Fraunhofer on the spectrum, and making

Iestimates of the intensity of the pure colours by bringing each to
an equality with my standard white light.  used to try this by

Imaking an adjustment and then observing, then making another

adjustment and so on, and got very inconsistent results. Now
I Ithe adjustment is made while observe, and find the results not
Ivery inconsistent, not worse think than Fraunhofer's. Has any
Ione else repeated such measurements ?
                                           can do them quickly,

and mean to get a good many to compare.

Dove believes in the comparison of intensity of light of

different colours by his photometer with a photographic print.

I mean to try it with two half-square prisms ^v             joined

                 THEORIES OF OPTICAL REFLEXION                 25

with Canada Balsam laid on in narrow streaks so that certain
portions are transparent and others reflecting*.

                 Yours truly,

                                J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                 8 PALACE GARDENS TERRACE, W.

                                          1864, Oct. 15.

DEAR STOKES,

I have been reading Jamin's note on the Theory of

Reflexion and Refraction, Ann. de Ch. 1860, pt. i. p. 413.

   I am not yet able to satisfy myself about the conditions to be

fulfilled at the surface except of course the condition of conserva-

tion of energy.

IJamin insists on the equality of the motion both horizontal
and vertical in the two media.  do not see the necessity for
equality of motion ; but I think action and reaction must be equal

between the media, provided the media pure and simple vibrate

Ifand nothing along with them.

          the gross matter in each medium does not vibrate, or has
a different phase and amplitude from the ether, then there will be

six relations between the four quantities : two portions of ether

and two kinds of gross matter.
     Have you written anything about the rival theories of re-

flexion ? or can you tell me of any thing you agree with or
Ieminently differ from on that subject ?
                                          think you once told me

that the subject was a stiff one to the best skilled in undulations.
     Jamin deduces (p. 422) from his conditions of equality of

motion in the two media for vibrations in the plane of incidence

that the density of the medium is the same in all substances.

That is to say he gets this by pure mathematics without any

experiment.

Or according to him no such vibrations could exist in the

media unless they were of equal density.

   IThis think simply disproves his original assumption of the

equality of the displacements in the two media.

* This is the principle of the Swan-Brodhun photometer.

26 ELECTRIC THEORY OF REFLEXION OF LIGHT

    In fact the equality of displacements combined with the

equality of energy involves the equality of density.
      Therefore the general theory, which ought to be able to

explain the case of media of unequal density (even if there were

none such) must not assume equality of displacements of con-
tiguous particles on each side of the surface.

    I suppose if two media of different density were glued hard

together and large vibrations sent through them they would be
separated at their common surface.

     But there is nothing in the surface of separation of two media

analogous to this gluing together that I can detect.

   I have now got materials for calculating the velocity of trans-

mission of a magnetic disturbance through air founded on experi-
mental evidence, without any hypothesis about the structure of
the medium or any mechanical explanation of electricity or

magnetism.
     The result is that only transverse disturbances can be propa-

gated and that the velocity is that found by Weber and Kohlrausch
which is nearly that of light. This is the velocity with which

such slow disturbances as we can make would be propagated. If

the same law holds for rapid ones, then there is no difference
between polarized light and rapid electromagnetic disturbances in

one plane.

   I have written out so much of the theory as does not involve

the conditions at bounding surfaces, and will send it to the R. S.
in a week.

   I am trying to understand the conditions at a surface for

reflexion and refraction, but they may not be the same for the
period of vibration of light and for experiments made at leisure.

     We are devising methods to determine this velocity = electro-
magnetic -7- electrostatic unit of electricity. Thomson is going to

Iweigh an electromotive force. Jenkin and are going to measure
Ithe capacity of a conductor both ways and have a plan of direct

equilibrium between an electromagnetic repulsion and electro-
static attraction.

                                                   Yours truly,

                                                 J. C. MAXWELL.

         POSTULATES OF DYNAMICAL THEORY OF GASES                             27

                                      8 PALACE GARDENS TERRACE, W.

                                                   1866, Dec. 18.

DEAR STOKES,

         I enclose a report on Mr Tarn's paper and Thomson's

report on mine*. Thomson's theory of matter being continuous

but much more dense at one place than another is a molecular

Itheory, for the dense portions constitute a finite number of mole-

cules : and do not assert nor does any one since Lucretius that

the space between the molecules is absolutely empty.

   I take Statics to be the theory of systems of forces without

considering what they act on, Kinetics to be the theory of the

motions of systems without regard to the forces in action, Dy-

namics to be the theory of the motion of bodies as the result of

given forces, and Energetics to be the theory of the communica-
Ition of energy from one body to another.
                                                   therefore call the

theory a dynamical theory because it considers the motions of

bodies as produced by certain forces.

I think I have stated plainly enough the difference between
Imy molecules and pure centres of force.
                                                   do not profess to have

a dynamical theory of the molecule itself.
I have considered the equilibrium of heat in a vertical column
I Iand find made a mistake in equation 143.
                                                   now make the

Itemperature the same throughout, and have inserted (on two

pages) an addition to that effect which mean to be instead of
Ip. 60.
             have also amended equation 54 in which the effect of

external forces was omitted by mistake in writing out and copying

from equation 47.

The result is a corroboration of the theory of the distribution
                                                   of " Least Squares  "
of velocity  as the  errors  are  in  the  theory                            for
                                                                          ;

we require to have           P-Sp.

which agrees with that theory.

   I think something might be done to the statical theory of

elasticity with centres of force whose displacement is a function
of the index of the molecule as well as of its initial coordinates,

           * "On the Dynamical Theory of Gases," Phil. Trans. May, 1866.

28 THEORY OF DYNAMOS

the number of kinds of indices being small and the groups of n

particles being originally of the same form, but it would require
an investigation to itself*.

                     I remain, Yours truly,

                                          J. CLERK MAXWELL.

    I shall be at Cambridge from 26 Dec. to 26 Jan. at Trinity.

                     8 PALACE GARDENS TERRACE, W.

                         1867, Feb. 27.

DEAR SIR,

I I Ifind that have made two mistakes in a paper have

sent to the R. S.f about Siemens' and Wheatstone's machines.
It is all right about the first kind of commutator.
   IIn finding the effect of the second kind of commutator which

breaks one of the circuits have omitted to consider the effect of
Ithe stoppage on the other coil by induction.
                                                     send you the

result taking the inductive effect into account.

The second mistake was in the case of two currents always dis-

connected. Such a system cannot maintain currents by its motions.

    The result I came to arose from neglecting the inductive effect

of stopping the current.
     In fact a closed circuit cannot have a current always in one

direction produced by any inductive action.

     The nearest approach to it is to take a long flexible magnet

and wind it on the coil like as a silk is wound to cover a wire.

During the winding a current will go in one direction and during
the unwinding it will go in the other direction.

     The part relating to two independent coils is therefore all

wrong.

    If you can allow that part to be cut out, and the enclosed

to be substituted for what relates to commutators of the second
kind, it will prevent a false statement from going beyond you
and me.

           Yours truly,

                     J. CLERK MAXWELL.

* See infra, p. 36.  t Roy. Soc. Proc. 1867.

APPLICATION OF FOURIER'S SERIES                               29

                                                                     GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.

                                                                              June 26, 1869.

      DEAR SIR,

         IAs you have studied series of periodic functions should

like to know from you whether there is any method of finding the
coefficients of such a series

      8 = A + A l cos 6 + AS cos 20 + . . . + A n cos n6
                                + #! sin + J52 sin 20 + ... +Bn sinn0,

so that between the limits 6 = and 6 = a the series $ shall have
values given in terms of 6, and between the limits 6 = a. and
6 = 2-7T some other series depending on $ such as dS/dO shall have
values given in terms of 6.

    For instance, can we find the values of the coefficients A in
the series such that A Q + A l cos0 + A 2 cos 20+ ... +A n cosn0

shall be constant, = C, for values of 6 of the form 6 = 2?rw + <,

when $ is less than a and at the same time A 1 cos 6 + 2A 2 cos 20 ...

+ nA n cosn& shall be zero for values of not within the above
limits ?

     The question arises from the application of Fourier's theorem
to the determination of the potential of an electrified grating con-
sisting of a number of parallel strips all in one plane, the breadth

-of each being 2aa, and the intervals between them being
                                             2 (TT a) a.

The potential is of the form

-TVr = A          x                       A. n e -n       nx
+  A l e_Ma  cos  a           + &p c.  +             cos a ,

with the conditions V=C on the strips and dV/dy =             in the

Iintermediate spaces.

        have succeeded by a different method (that of transformation
by conjugate functions) in finding the effect of interposing a
grating of fine parallel wires at potential zero between a plane at

potential zero and an electrified parallel plane.

    If E be the electrification produced through the grating and

E' that produced when the grating is away then

                              1

30 ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION ON A WIRE GRATING

where b and 62 are the distances between the grating and the two

        and    a is a        line         to  ^2?lroge'                                                                   ),     being  the
Jplanes
                                   equal                     (~cosec                                                   a      a

                                                             \J2

distance between the axes of the wires and c their radius. This

Iis only true when a is much greater than c and when bT and b2
are each much greater than a.                                have since got a method of

jfinding the complete solution for cylindrical wires in a series of
          A

            F

                                      -^
                                           Tji

                                           h

                                 A

                                                          2

                                                     +
the form       + A dy                     -ayy-^ &c., where

                             F = log (ev + e~y-2 cos x).

Can you tell me the value of the infinite series

                 1                    1                      1

                   +                        a)
                        a)                       +
               l.(l + 2.(2 + 3.(3+T)                                         4

where   a      any fraction        ?                                            I*,
           is

Excuse my troubling you with these questions                                                                                  wish you to

answer them only you can do so without trouble.
                       if

                                      Yours truly,

                                                     CLERK MAXWELL.
                                              J.

                                                             GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.

                                                                          July 1869.
I
DEAR SIR,I
         I
                I

                          I

                                                                          a

                                                                                                                    8
               am very much obliged to you for your information

about Fourier's series, &c.

         am afraid shall not be able to attend the meeting of the                                                                       is

B. A. at Exeterf which hope will be great success. Jenkin
   believe with the Great Eastern and will probably be busy for

some time. Balfour-Stewart knows most about the resistance

experiments, and Dr Joule has got the whole subject up inde-

pendently in a most thorough manner so as to correct several

numerical mistakes in the Report.

        know how to reduce the problem sent you to a case of
tI                                                           aI
integration, by           a  method which Thomson has applied to the

complete solution of the electrification of segment of spherical
                                                                                                                              a

shell.

* See Electricity and Magnetism, vol. (1873), part chapters xi. xii.
   British Association Meeting, under Prof. Stokes' presidency.
                                              i.
                                                                         i.

                HISTORY OF STOKES' THEOREM                     31

I first find by this method the distribution on an arc of a

cylindric surface, and then putting this in cylindric coordinates

r and 6, the functions are periodic in 6.       Then  putting  r 2*x

                                                                  = ce

and =  -O rjni  , the functions become suited for rectangular co-

ordinates and periodic in y.

      The curves on the opposite page* represent the equipotential
surfaces and lines of force due to an infinite series of wires, of which

one is given at A, placed parallel to a plane on the left hand

which has an equal and opposite charge on its opposed surface.

                             Yours truly,

                                      J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                                           GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.

                                                                             11 Jan. 1871.

     MY DEAR STOKES,

          I received the copy of the Adams Prize Essay some time

ago, and have been gradually getting into the subject.
     Did not you set the theorem about the surface integral

over a surface bounded by the curve s being equal to

                /  a-darsx-  +  #  d-arys  djz
                \
                                           as

   I have   had some difficulty in tracing the history         of this
            Can you tell me anything about it ?
theorem f.

                             Yours truly,

                                      J. CLERK MAXWELL.

I hope you saw the eclipse well.

     * Not reproduced : given in Electricity and Magnetism, vol. i. plate xiii.
    t In Electricity and Magnetism, vol. i. p. 16, this theorem, fundamental in
regard to the vectors of physics, is traced to Smith's Prize Examination Papers for

1854, and the result has since been known as Stokes' Theorem. It occurs however

also in a letter from Lord Kelvin to Prof. Stokes of date 1850 : see Stokes' Math.

and Phys. Papers, vol. v. p. 320.

32 TRAIL OF IMAGES FOR INDUCTIVE EFFECT

                                                                          GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.
                                                                           8 Jan. 1872.

      DEAR PROFESSOR STOKES,

          I send you a paper for the Royal Society in which a

peculiar kind of image of an electromagnetic system is shown to
be formed by a plane sheet of conducting matter.

   If a man on board ship were to drop into the sea every second

a piece of lead and a piece of cork attached to each other by
a string of such a length that, in sinking, the cork is always one
second in the rear of the lead, the series of plummets and corks
would form a kind of trail in the rear of the vessel which is

always sinking with uniform velocity while it retains its shape as

a whole.
     This gives a mental image of the trail of images of an electro-

magnet in a conducting sheet. The plummets are positive
images and the corks negative images.

    N.B. The paper is not offered for the Transactions \ as it is
to be put into a slightly different form in a separate book*.

                                    Yours very truly,

                                          J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                     11 SCROOPE TERRACE, CAMBRIDGE.

                                                                                 12 Feb. 1872.

MY DEAR STOKES,

     I send you a note on my paper on induction in a plate,

making mention of the researches of Felici and Jochmann, which

I could not refer to in the country.

The mutual induction of the induced currents must not be

neglected when the relative velocity of the magnet and plate is

comparable with F, which, for a copper plate 1 mm. thick is about

25 metres per second and for a thicker plate is less ; so that the

secondary phenomena described in the paper ought to occur, as

indeed they do with a thick plate and a high speed, i.e.

Primary phenomenon,  Tangential dragging,

Secondary            Repulsion from disk,

Tertiary             Attraction towards axis.

           Yours truly,

                     J. CLERK MAXWELL.

           * Electricity and Magnetism, vol. ii.

           EXPERIMENTS ON METALLIC REFLEXION                         33

                                              GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE:
                                                      8 July, 1872.

MY DEAR STOKES,

The figures in Mr Latimer Clark's paper are better
If Ithan anything I could do.
                            therefore can obtain the consent
Iof the Society and of Mr Clark, should like to obtain cliches of

the engravings of the Electrodynamometer and its parts*, and in

Idoing so have supposed it best to begin with the Society, for
I Ithough am acquainted with Mr Clark, have no direct relation

Iwith him in the capacity of referee of his paper.
        had already drawn figures, not so good as Mr Clark's, but

they are not yet engraved, so that if there is any objection to my

getting either the loan of the blocks or plates, or impressions of

Ithem, my work will not be delayed.               should think it
     As some of the figures are already engraved

likely that Mr Clark means to use them in some work of his own,

and that they have been engraved independently of the R. S.

though they may first appear as illustrations in the Phil. Trans.

   I IWith respect to the time at which should have to send my

last figures to the engraver, think the end of September is

about the limit of safety.

                            Yours sincerely,

                            J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                                            GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.
                                                                                     3 August 1875.

     DEAR STOKES,

         I have done nothing about the reflective power of gold,

silver, or platinum, but am willing to continue my labours if so

required.
     Browning is making a divided circle to carry a Jellett's

Jprism, a undulation plate or a Babinet's compensator, any or

all of them, and it is to be capable of being fastened to an

inclined arm so as to examine the ray reflected from a liquid.

                                    Yours very truly,

                                          J. CLERK MAXWELL.

           * For the Electricity and Magnetism.

S. B. II.                                         3

34 CHEMICAL EQUILIBRIUM OF COEXISTENT PHASES

   I have been thinking about Dr Andrews' experiments on
Imixtures of N and CO 2.

         find the conditions of equilibrium between two mixtures

in different states to be*:

Let e energy of unit of mass of mixture (e =f(v,                <f>,lt ... #n-i))
          = volume of do.
                                                                   q

&         = entropy of do.,

   (f> v
<li> " <?-i the masses of the substances i,                  2  n-i m unit  of
                                                                Then
mass of the mixture (there being n constituents).

               pressure =p=-^de,

               temperature =               =    de

                                                -^
                                           r xr 6
               j" reaction," = =
                                             dq      z' l ,

                                           _de

                                          *~dq

                                 &c.,

and the conditions of equilibrium between two mixtures, one ofis
which distinguished by an accent, are

                                     ?*2 = r,,

                                     &c.,

and

-h pv 0(j) r^                    &c. = + pv' 0(f>' r^'                &c. ...
e
           a

                 8,

                      2r

                                                            <2?

                                                         is
                                                                of

                                                                            e'

                                                                  '' r
                                                                                                                 22q '

                                                                                                                                                                      ''
                                                                                                                                                          a
* These are precisely the general analytical conditions for the equilibrium of

coexistent heterogeneous substances that were formulated by Willard Gibbs in his

epoch-making memoir, of which the first part was communicated to the Connecticut

Academy in October 1875. Prof. Gibbs employed the term potential of

constituent substance for what       here provisionally named reaction. The

theory was probably elaborated by both Gibbs and Maxwell from Gibbs'

Thermodynamic Surface, of which an account was inserted by Maxwell in the

fourth edition (1875) of his Theory        Heat (pp. 195 208), giving the method

he employed in constructing the surface to scale for water-substance. On

March     1876, Maxwell, then President of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
communicated to the Society an account of Gibbs' methods " which seem to me to
throw new light upon Thermodynamics " (Proceedings, vol. ii. pp. 427 430). The

special problem which here suggested to Maxwell this general investigation, has

been developed with much success by van der Waals and his pupils on the same

lines as those indicated above.

CRITICAL TEMPERATURE FOR MIXED GASES  35

     These conditions seem to me to be all right. The difficulty
is to conceive clearly the energy as a function of volume, entropy,
and composition, say in liquid CO 2 saturated with absorbed N in
contact with a gaseous mixture of C0 2 and N.

     But it seems plain that if the thermodynamic surface (co-

ordinates, volume entropy and energy) has a valley or hollow
place which works itself out at the critical point, after which the

surface is convexo-convex, and if the surface for N is everywhere
convex, then the effect of mixing N with CO 2 will be to make the
head of the valley more convex, that is it will work itself out

sooner, or the critical point will be lowered.
     But the difficulty is to see how to form the surface for a

mixture when those of the constituents are given.

    However, I must interpret my conditions in this case, and in

that of two liquid mixtures, as of benzol and (alcohol and water),
and in solutions of salts (supersaturated &c.), and in solutions of

gases (supersaturated &c.).

                                                                            GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.

                                                                     9 July 1875.

     DEAR STOKES,

          I have no objection to Sir W. Thomson seeing my report.
   What I meant about the third paper was that the quarto paper

on the Electrodynatnic Qualities of Metals would suffer greatly

if the new facts about very soft iron were not worked up and

inserted into it. If the magnetic molecules have got a slight

preponderance of set in one direction, then a strain of extension in
that direction would (in a homogeneous medium) tend to increase
that set. But this cannot be the explanation for the "unital
extension " is small compared with the percentage increment of
magnetization.

     We arrived here on 25th June breaking the journey at
Carlisle. Mrs Maxwell stood the journey very well, and is making
steady progress. We have had a week of hot weather, but to-day

the rain is heavy and constant.

                                      Yours sincerely,

                                          J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                     32

36 THEORY OF IMPERFECT ELASTICITY AND VISCOSITY

                                  GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.

                                                25 Sept. 1875.

MY DEAR STOKES,

I quite concur with you that Mr Gore's paper should

now be printed in eootenso in the proceedings.

Mrs Maxwell has been keeping pretty well and has been able

to get out on her pony.
     Would you agree with the following statements about elasticity

arid viscosity, as related to a molecular theory ?

When after being strained the groups of molecules in a body

tend to return to the same stable configuration as when un-
Ifstrained, the body is elastic.
                                  at corresponding stages of the

straining and restitution the stresses are the same, the body

is perfectly elastic. If the stress during restitution is less than

that during deformation the elasticity is imperfect.

If, when the strain exceeds a certain value, complete restitu-

tion does not occur, this value is called the limiting strain and the

stress the limiting stress of elasticity.
    If, when the stress is removed, the body does not completely

return to its original form the body is said to be plastic or viscous.

A viscous body, if kept strained long enough, loses all tendency to
change its form. A plastic body does not permanently change its
form unless the stress exceeds a certain value, and if kept strained

it never loses all stress.

                                               THEORY.

     In an elastic solid the thermal agitation of the molecules does
not carry them beyond the limits of oscillating about stable con-

figurations.
     But as the thermal agitation increases so many molecules per

second are thrown out and oscillate about a new configuration, the
nature of which is determined by the present form of the body
and not by its unstrained form*.

     The greater the strain it is probable that more molecules
will be so thrown out ; but the number is not proportional to the
strain, but varies very little for small strains, and suddenly rises

enormously for breaking strains.

     * Cf. Maxwell's article " Constitution of Bodies," Ency. Brit. 9th ed., Collected
Papers, vol. ii. p. 624, referred to by Rayleigh in connexion with Swing's model of
magnetic hysteresis ; the next page gives a development of his ideas.

                          ACCURACY OF OHM'S LAW                                   37

jQIfa                                            out in           unit of time from
      1/1 of the         molecules are thrown                     see Thomson and
state of strain                                  a, 6, c,
                         represented by e,ft g,
Tait, and if these molecules enter into the state ^0, ^0, |0, 0, 0, 0,

where                        6=e+f+g,

then*                     de 1 / 1 ,\ du

                          dt I \ 3

                          da 1 dv dw

and if k and n are the coefficients of elasticity so that

                    P = (k-$n)0 + 2ne and S = na,

the equations of motion will be of the form

                             n\ d~\ dd  9I                           Du

with 2 others and

                         dO _ du dv dw

                                      dt dx dy dz

   If I is small we may put

                          p = C k6 and nl =
                                        J.
and the equation becomes     + zv -     DM A P
                                                             //,
            -^dp -^_.                   -^=o.

                             Yours very truly,

                                         CLERK MAXWELL.

DEAR STOKES,                                                             [1875.]

              .... The exploring of liquid electrolyte appears to havea
been original and there was plenty of good work all through, but

   was of the kind which does most good to the worker himself,

except in so far as encourages other people to work also.
          would say the same of all experimental verifications of

mathematical formulae founded on Ohm's law except (1st) experi-
ments to determine specific resistances, intensities of polarization
&c., or in short to evaluate physical quantities, and (2nd) experi-
ments to test whether or not Ohm's law true to 10~ as we know
it

  I

                         it

it      to 10~.4                        is
    is                                                           V2 8

     * Here (w, v,ID)    velocity. The signs of the terms involving  u below should
be changed, unless        has itself the quaternionic sign.
                     is

                    V2it

38 FINITE SLIP BETWEEN GASES AND SOLIDS

     Scotch, a verb or a termination as in Butterscotch, an English

delicacy the nature of which I do not know. Perhaps the last t

should be r.
       Scots, native form.
       Scottish, English form.

                                    Yours very truly,

                                          J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                                         GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.

                                            7 July 1876.

MY DEAR STOKES,

I Ithink read the abstract of the paper on the dragging

Iof air by water in the Proc. R. S.
        agree with you that the experiments are good experiments,

Ibut that the plan of experiment is not such as to lead to any
result of great scientific importance.      remember verifying

's formula as given in the abstract, and finding it right.

The chief results of value are

1. That it is possible to have a regular jet of water down the

axis of a tube. This may turn out useful for experiments.

2. That air sticks to water as much as to glass (within the

degree of accuracy of the experiments).

Now Kundt and Warburg have measured the amount of

slipping between air and glass, and find it insensible at ordinary

pressures but measurable at very small pressures.

    In calculating the etfect of a slight breeze in raising ripples on

water we may therefore suppose the relative velocity of air and

water at the surface to be zero.
I IfIf the experiments are put forth as researches into the nature
of fluids then think the plan is not good.  they are experi-

ments to illustrate the correctness of the formula as given then

their value consists in the development of the skill of the author,

I Iwhich we hope to hear of again in some more important research.
        have not seen the paper in full so can say nothing about

Iits suitableness for the Transactions, but from all have heard
I believe the author is better than his subject, and would do well

to wait till he can bring up a heavier piece of ordnance to storm

the Committee of Papers withal.

ON RECORDING RESULTS BEYOND THE RELIABLE FIGURES 39

                  GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.
                         26 July, 1876.

DEAR STOKES,

Many thanks for your information + about the

theory of light.

With respect to   if he can explain how he measures
I Ifthe temperature which he calls 750
                                         would delete the (?).
I Ihe does not would leave it as you have marked it. But would

cut out any statement of what would take place at temperatures

below -300C.

   IThere are many things which a man may make a note of for

himself, but which Foster or may think it desirable not to send

(of our own motion) to the R. S. For instance, an author may
think it a matter of principle to prune his calculated results down

to such a number of decimal places as he considers true beyond

the possibility of contradiction by future investigators.

But the future investigator may wish to know whether his

results agree with those of the earlier author as far as that author

carried them.

   If - 's results had been glaringly inconsistent with each

other in an early place of decimals it would be absurd to print a
long row of figures, but if they are decently consistent and if the

author himself is not afraid to write them down, the question of

printing them at length or docking them seems one of expense

Inot of principle.
        think there is a short account of some experiments on the

rate of conduction of heat in the different bars which shows that

- has not studied his Fourier very deeply. His aim is to

determine the velocity with which heat or the heat wave travels
Ifalong the bar.
                  he has profited by his experiments so much as

to disbelieve in the existence of such a velocity, the experiments
may have contributed to convert a man of science to the truth,

but they have not much value to others.

IfI am now copying out for press the "laboratory book" of
Henry Cavendish.  he had published his electrical experiments

he would not probably have published the details of the experi-

ments. But as he did not do so, and only wrote out (for publica-

tion ?) an account of the earlier ones, but made a full index of the

40 CAVENDISH'S ELECTRICAL MANUSCRIPTS

Ilater ones, think it right to give the whole details, as they are

quite intelligible, and as they are unique of their kind even if

the date were the corresponding years of this century instead
of 1771-2-3.

     The accuracy of his measurements of capacity is astonishing,

considering that his electrometer was a pair of pith balls which he
caused to diverge to a measured distance.

   If he had had a heterostatic electrometer of any kind, he

might have got on much quicker. But he compares the formulae

- log4-Z)'joLjJL/./1 2-"                  JC*3*- /
logL-logD' log 2Z D '

for the capacity of a long cylinder whose length is L and diameter

D, and his experiments are sufficient to make him decide in

favour of the second, which we now know is right.

Mrs Maxwell desires me to say that her health has greatly

improved by the quiet of her Scottish home. She joins me in

kind regards to yourself and Mrs Stokes.

Yours very truly,

        J. CLERK MAXWELL.

REMARKS ON MR G. F. FITZGERALD'S PAPER " ON THE ELECTRO-
       MAGNETIC THEORY OF THE REFLEXION AND REFRACTION
       OF LIGHT*."

                                                            CAVENDISH LABORATORY, CAMBRIDGE.
                                                                                   6 Feb. 1879.

   I...At the same time think it desirable, and even necessary

to the completeness of the paper, that the author should make the
several statements of his assumptions more explicit.

     What he says about the interior of a medium can generally be
interpreted by comparison with my book on electricity, but his
statement of the boundary conditions (p. 4) can only be interpreted
by working backwards from his results.

     He says " the values of the elements of the integrals must be
the same for the two media," but what these elements are depends

                                            * Phil. Trans. 1880.

PROBLEM OF OPTICAL REFLEXION  41

on the set of variables which we adopt to express these in-

tegrals by*.

    It appears from the subsequent work that the boundary con-

ditions adopted are
     (1) The components of the intensity of the electric force

parallel to the surface are continuous in passing from one medium
to the other.

     (2) The corresponding components of the magnetic force are
also continuous.

     The normal component of the electric force is not continuous,

if there is surface-electrification. The normal component of the

magnetic induction (as defined in my book as the product of
the magnetic force into the "permeability") is continuous, and

is necessarily so.
     Mr FitzGerald finds in the course of his work that the normal

component of the magnetic force is continuous, but this is because
he supposes the " permeability " the same in both media. See

p. 7, line 3.

    This part of the theory, which I did not touch in my book, has

been taken up by Dr H. A. Lorentz of Leiden in his academic

dissertation " Over de theorie der terugkaatsing en breking van
het licht," Arnhem, 1875.

    It is satisfactory to find that Lorentz adopts the same boundary

conditions (though he states them somewhat more explicitly), and
arrives at the same results when the passage from one medium to
the other is supposed to be abrupt, namely, Fresnel's values of the
intensities of the reflected and refracted rays, the plane of polariz-
ation being assumed to be that of the magnetic disturbance and
perpendicular to the electric disturbance.

     Lorentz has attacked the theory of the change of phase at
reflexion, which, as Mr FitzGerald remarks, is of a higher order of
difficulty, but he has not attempted the theory of a magnetized

medium.

    It is in this that Mr FitzGerald has broken new ground, and it

Iis here that think it especially desirable that he should write

out his assumptions in a more explicit form.

     * Prof. FitzGerald's procedure is explained by Larmor, Report on " The Action
of Magnetism on Light," British Association, 1893, see 8. It was extended to the
theory of electrons in Phil. Trans. 1894-5-7; see especially Aether and Matter,

 1900, chapter vi.

42 MAGNETO-OPTIC THEORY

     In order to form the equations for a magnetized medium,
Mr FitzGerald professes to borrow an expression from my book.
The expression he writes down seems to serve his purpose very

Iwell, and it may possibly be capable of reconciliation with mine,

or it may possess merits altogether its own, but have failed to
trace any correspondence between them, especially in those points

Iin which think my own theory faulty.
    In my book I did not attempt to discuss reflexion at all*.

I found that the propagation of light in a magnetized medium

was a hard enough subject.

     At first sight it might seem very natural to expect that the

corkscrew relation between electric and magnetic vectors would
introduce terms into the equations of wave-propagation, of the

forms which MacCullagh and Airy have shown to be required in
order to explain Faraday's discovery of the rotation of the plane

of polarization.

    But if we take the pure electromagnetic theory, in which the

only phenomena considered are electric and magnetic disturbances,
and in which no bodily motion of a medium is introduced the
theory, in fact, which has been taken up by Lorentz, FitzGerald
and myself we find that the terms which seem to lead up to
a rotation of the plane of polarization, though they enter into the
preliminary equations, disappear from the final ones, so that
Faraday's phenomenon remains unexplained by the pure electro-

magnetic theory.

I I have not stated in my book the various hypotheses which
  formed and rejected in seeking for a theory of this phenomenon.
The one which is found in my book is a hybrid theory, in which
bodily motion of the medium is made to cooperate with electric
current, so that there is a term in the expression for the kinetic
energy which involves the product of a matter- velocity and an
electricity- velocity, two kinds of motion between which in other

parts of my book I had endeavoured to show there was no demon-

strable connexion.

     * Maxwell has already mentioned (p. 26 supra) in this correspondence that the
agreement or disagreement of the index of refraction with the square root of the
ordinary dielectric constant would be a criterion as to whether the sympathetic
vibrations of the molecules would have to be included in the theory of optics for
material media. It was possibly their disagreement in general that led him to
postpone the treatment of optical reflexion.

                     FITZGERALD'S FORMULATION                           43

IHence the expression which gave for the kinetic energy in

a moving magnetized medium differs from those given long ago

by MacCullagh and Airy only in being ostensibly based on a

IIphysical hypothesis which have stated as plausibly as could,

while I pointed out that the fundamental assumption that

matter-velocity and electric current are quantities capable of

Iinteraction is not warranted by any other known phenomenon.

    Now in Mr FitzGerald's work cannot find that he ever

introduces the bodily motion of the medium. At least the

symbols he uses are all defined as electric or magnetic quantities,

and no change of meaning is pointed out.

    If he has succeeded in explaining Kerr's phenomena as well as

Faraday's by a purely electromagnetic hypothesis*, the fact that

he has done so ought to be clearly made out and stated, for it
would be a very important step in science ; and even if his

expression for the kinetic energy is not founded on a dynamical

hypothesis, but is merely a mathematical expression from which

certain observed facts may be deduced, its value would be very
Igreatly increased by such an interpretation as
                                                                        am sure

Mr FitzGerald could easily give.

                                  J. CLERK MAXWELL.

   P.S. Though I have no skill in Quaternion   notation, I think

that the operator

                     d_ d -d      d

where a,  /?,    are the components of R should be written SRV.
             7

                                  GLENLAIR, DALBEATTIE.
                                        21 August 1879.

MY DEAR STOKES,

         it I  have not been able for work of any kind for some time,

so that      is  with difficulty that can answer your letter, though
                     I

                                    a
it       about my own paper, and you have been taking so much

     is

trouble to make somewhat more like paper.
                 it

     * FitzGerald's analysis, suitably extended to metallic media,  is  in fact the
usually accepted theory. Cf. Leathern, Phil. Trans. 1897 A.

44 CORRECTIONS TO PAPER ON GAS-THEORY

   /At p. 3 would read

     Hence the normal pressure will be greater on the convex

surface than on the concave surface, and if we were to neglect the

tangential pressures we might think this an explanation of the
motion of Mr Crook es' cups.

    At p. 6. Note added May 1879] should be put at p. 7 in

italics before the square bracket ].

    At p. 12 transfer Added May 1879] to the end of line 12 of

p. 13 in italics with square bracket thus

          |. Added May 18*19]

    At p. 18 transfer Note added June 1879 to foot of page and
put it in italics.

   At foot of p. 26 delete ]

      in p. 18, line 6 from bottom, for       pO read
                                              fju4                                      -f- p*p0.

      ,,9 .          S. 7                ^/      Po /p2.,                               +
                                    is   ff/pp                      p n* fj* yu4-       + pp.

                                                                              P
                                                                                      0.
                     13 p/p + p.

II    Rhope the      will not send me any papers to report on for
   I
   could not do it.

    My wife got caught in the rain on the 13th, and on Monday

   was afraid of bronchitis, but the doctor thinks that has taken
                                                        it

a better turn now, but she very much distressed with neuralgia
in the face and with toothache. She was much pleased by getting

a  letter from Mrs Stokes this morning.

   Among the subscribers to Dr Smith's Optics,          1738, appears
the name of "Mr Gabriel Stocks."                        however your
                                         I    dare say

optical studies were already somewhat advanced (from a heredity
point of view) in 1738.

                     Yours very truly,

                                        J. CLERK MAXWELL.

          FINAL ILLNESS                                                       45

                              GLENLAIR.

                              2 Oct. [1879].

MY DEAR MRS STOKES,

              We had 3 Doctors yesterday and they all agreed in
one thing, that Mr Maxwell must go at once to Dr Paget, who is

Icelebrated in what they think this complaint. Dr Saunders

liked very much. We hope to leave to-day, when we can have

an invalid carriage to go direct to Cambridge without stopping
Ianywhere. Wonderful from being so weak all summer
                                                    can

do everything, order the packing &c. With kindest regards to

you all,

          Ever yr affec te ,

                     K. M. CLERK MAXWELL.

     We will likely leave for Cambridge on Monday.

    [In Prof. Maxwell's handwriting.]
    A small but heavy box arrived this morning from Cambridge
directed to Arthur. We shall take it back to Cambridge, as

IArthur will probably be soon back at King's.
        am a little stronger to-day*.

* Prof. Maxwell died on Nov. 5 : cf. Life by Campbell and Garnett, ch. xiii.

46 MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT

           LETTERS FROM JAMES PRESCOTT JOULE.

                                               NEW BAILEY ST., SALFORD, MANCHESTER.

                                                             July 24, 1847.

     DEAR MR STOKES,

          I feel greatly obliged for your kind communication which

will afford me a great deal of matter for reflection and study.
Your prediction respecting the success of the mercurial apparatus*
is fully verified by the only experiment hitherto made with it.
The apparatus is similar to that exhibited at Oxford, only smaller

and of iron. It contains 205625 grs. of mercury and weighs of

itself 39615 grs., which altogether equals the capacity for heat
of 11142 grs. of water. By expending on it a force equal to
5230 Ibs. through a foot, it was heated 4'20 which equals
60-685 per Ib. of water : hence the equivalent from this experiment
comes out 782, which is wonderfully close to 775 the equivalent
already deduced, considering that the corrections are not yet fully
estimated.

     Believe me Dear Mr Stokes with my best thanks for your
obliging and highly interesting communication,

                                   Ever most truly yours,

                                                   JAMES P. JOULE.

     * See the classical memoir " On the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat," Phil.
Trans., communicated to the Royal Society June 21, 1849 by Faraday : reprinted
in Joule's Scientific Papers, vol. i. see p. 312.

         RANGE OF TRANSPARENCY OF PRISMS                   47

                      ACTON SQ., SALFORD.
                                       Dec. 10, 1852.

MY DEAR STOKES,

         I was unable to visit the Polytechnic on last Wednesday
         Iand therefore send the enclosed by post.
week                                                       have felt

excessively interested in your recent discoveries, which must be
Iconsidered as giving the " coup de grace " to the old un mechanical
hypothesis of light.  hope you are actively pushing forward

a research which promises to yield such beautiful and important

truths.

                                         April 12, 1853.

I was much gratified in receiving the very important and

interesting papers you were so kind as to send me.

IThe copies for the Lit. and Phil. Society will be presented at
its next meeting and duly acknowledged.  perceive that you

are employing quartz instead of glass for your prisms &c.

Melloni in a paper in the Comptes Rendus, vol. xviii. p. 42

states that by decomposing the solar rays by "sel gemme" which is

equally permeable to every kind of calorific radiation (constituting

so to speak the white glass for heat) the maximum of heat will be

found in the obscure space beyond the red. The above quotation

from Melloni will I doubt not be interesting to you unless as
I have little doubt you are already well acquainted with it. Now

it naturally occurs to the mind that if quartz be so much superior

to glass the limit of perfection may not be attained even with
Iquartz, and
              should imagine that an examination of all the

transparent substances in your reach would repay your trouble.

I have an idea that even elastic fluids might be used as prisms

Iwithout any solid medium to envelop them. This think might

be accomplished by forcing them through triangular orifices, under

pressure.

   Thomson and I are getting on as quickly as we can with

the air experiments. We have found what Thomson anticipated,
viz. the opposite effects of cold and heat in the same stream of
air rushing at high pressure. The thermometer held immediately

over the orifice and close to it shows 40 of cold: but if held

48 TEMPERATURE EFFECTS IN EXPANDING GASES

at a distance of ^ an inch so that the air rushes between the
bulb and some material surrounding it so as to leave a narrow
passage, the thermometer rises 100 : of course these numbers
are not exact but they suffice to show that we have found the
main theoretical principles to be correct. The air rushing through
the porous plug shows 2 Fahr. of cold at a pressure of about
4 atmospheres, a result similar to that attained with the smaller

apparatus previously used.

                                            November 12, '53.

I am glad to hear that an institution is about to be established

Iwhich will doubtless be of the greatest value to Cambridge,
   have thought a good deal on the subject of your queries, and

in the first place I do not think that for experiments on heat

it is absolutely essential to have an uniform temperature, although

it would be desirable to obviate sudden and      uncontrolled
Ifchanges.                                       it would be
            a room were built without window's   that for ex-
Irendered useless for many purposes ; and think

periments on heat it would be desirable to use a room of

considerable size such as might at times be used for different

purposes, such as experiments on light, and chemical experiments,

probably also for magnetic experiments. I would therefore

recommend abundance of light from windows, which might be so

furnished with shutters as to shut out light and the effect of

external temperature when required. My impression is that if

there were two shutters, one opening inside, the other outside

of the window, and both well constructed of well-seasoned wood,

say 2 inches thick, the window would resist the passage of heat

as well as the wall, and thus by closing the shutters all the

advantages of a room without windows would be secured.
     This arrangement would as you will observe render the room

available for experiments on light, for the outer shutter and the
window being thrown open, the inner shutter (furnished with proper
slits &c.) might be closed : and to facilitate this object it would

be desirable that the window should be folding, being hung by

hinges to the sides of the opening : by this means it will be

possible to open the entire space between the walls instead of only

a part as is the case in ordinary windows.
IIn the accompanying sketch have given my ideas as to the
Iproper arrangement of the room.
                                  would have an adjoining

           PLAN FOR THERMAL LABORATORY               49

apartment to contain a steam boiler and if necessary a steam
engine. In very many experiments on heat it would be desirable

to have the means of conveying heat by steam, which would be

best done from an adjoining apartment. A chimney rising

between the two rooms would convey the smoke from the boiler

Iflue and from a fire-place or stove in the large room.
        would have the entrance to the large room in which the

experiments are conducted through a doorway from the boiler room,

which arrangement would prevent the sudden admission of a large

quantity of air of different temperature, on any person entering the

room by a door from the outside.

For a great many experiments it is necessary to have the

Icommand of a great and easily adjustable heat, which would be
most easily effected by means of a gas stove.  would therefore

recommend a gas pipe of sufficient size, say 1^ inch bore, to be
conveyed into the room.

The shutters and windows might be made almost perfectly

tight by means of a strip of India rubber placed round their

edges.

    It would be advisable to have the means of ventilation, which

would be most conveniently effected by means of an opening near
the ceiling into the chimney, of say 6 inches area, closed when not

required or opened to the requisite extent.

   IThe above are the ideas which strike one at present, and if of

any use to you shall be most glad.

    A flagged floor would be preferable.

           OAK FIELD, Moss-SiDE, MANCHESTER.

                                  Nov. 29, 1858.

IYou will see by the enclosed that am engaged to read a

paper to our Society tomorrow and thus am prevented enjoying
Ia pleasure had looked forward to, that of meeting my many
Ifriends at the Royal Society Annual Meeting.
                                               see also that the

same cause hinders me from attending the Council for the last

I Itime, of which fear shall be considered to have been a very

indifferent member. The subject of sewage which has occupied

my attention is one which, I dare say, it will be thought I have no

Ibusiness with ; but it is one which sooner or later will force itself
on every intelligent member of the community.  have searched

s. B. ii.                                         4

50 DR JOULE ON PORTABLE MAGNETIC INSTRUMENTS

through the Blue Book &c. and find that, except in one or two

instances, viz. the appointing of Hofmann and Witt to make

a report on a part of the subject, and a letter from Airy printed in

small type, scientific men have not been consulted on a momentous

subject involving questions which relate to several departments of

Science. The whole matter lay in the hands of, I doubt not, very

able engineers, but who in the absence of scientific data and

information have come to conclusions diametrically opposite to
Ione another.
               hope to see the day when the Royal Society will

be consulted as the representative of Science in England on

all public measures in which Scientific questions are mixed up.

                 343, LOWER BROUGHTON ROAD, MANCHESTER.

                 12/10/72.

I fear it is out of my power to give any useful advice to

Ithe expedition in the respect of magnetic observations, because

the apparatus on which have worked long is not yet in such

a forward condition as a portable and readily renewed instrument,

as would be essential for the purposes of an instrument used by
Ian expedition.
                 have no doubt whatever as to the superiority
of the system of suspension I have adopted, but for a long

expedition it would be hardly advisable to use instruments which

Ihave not been in use more generally at home. The principal

difficulty apprehend is the difficulty of replacing spider or silk

filaments accidentally broken. I fully comprehend the immense
difference in working at home and on a voyage. However, I am

pushing these inquiries farther, and if there is an opportunity

Iof serving the expedition will not neglect it.
   I suppose that there is no better plan for finding the dip at

sea than that old one but useful one of Fox's.

However, it seems to me that an apparatus might be made

of needles suspended on loops of silk that would give readily

the number of vibrations of a needle, horizontally, and vertically

or in the dip ; whence the dip could be got on board a ship at sea.

I am now thinking of such an apparatus as would be practical.
I don't think it will involve much difficulty. If anything occur to

me further I will write to you at the Royal Society.

Pray give my kind regards to Dr and Mrs Robinson.

                 MAYER'S RELATION TO THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY 51

       MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT HISTORY. BY PROF. STOKES*.

I In a paper published in 1842, Mayer showed that he clearly
       conceived the convertibility of falling force, or of the vis viva
which is its equivalent, or representative in visible motion, into

heat, which again can disappear as heat by re-conversion into

work or vis viva as the case may be. He pointed out the

mechanical equivalent of heat as a fundamental datum, like

the space through which a body falls in one second, to be obtained

from experiment. He went further. When air is condensed

by the application of pressure, heat, as is well known, is produced.

Taking the heat so produced as the equivalent of the work done

in compressing the air, Mayer obtained a numerical value of

the mechanical equivalent of heat, which, when corrected by

employing a more precise value of the specific heat of air than

that accessible to Mayer, does not much differ from Joule's result.

   This was undoubtedly a bold idea, and the numerical value

of the mechanical equivalent of heat obtained by Mayer's method

is,as we now know, very nearly correct. Nevertheless                                  of itmust be

  if

                 is
observed that one essential condition in a trustworthy deter-

mination             wanting in Mayer's method; the portion                                  matter

operated on does not go through a cycle changes. Mayer reasons
                                                                        of
as the production of heat were the sole effect of the work
                                                                                  is
done in compressing air. But the volume of the air changed                            is

at the same time, and  a it                                             quite impossible to say a priori
                             is
whether this change may not involve what                                              analogous to the

statical compression of spring, in which a portion or even

a  large portion of the work done in compression may have been

expended. In that case the numerical result given by Mayer's

method would have been erroneous, and might have been even

widely erroneous. Hence the practical correctness of the equivalent
got by Mayer's method must not lead us to shut our eyes to the
merit of our own countryman Joule in being the first to determine
the mechanical equivalent of heat by methods which are un-

exceptionable, as fulfilling the essential condition that no ultimate
change of state produced in the matter operated upon.
   A

               J.

                        is

                                                                     ;
   * Royal Medal was awarded to Dr Joule in 1852 and the Copley Medal in

1870, for his researches on the mechanical equivalent of heat. The Copley Medal

was awarded to R. Mayer in 1871 the statement printed above was prepared by

Prof. Stokes for this occasion at the request of Sir Edward Sabine, Pres. R.S., and

was included by him in his remarks in presenting the Medal.                           42

52 SURFACE COLOURS IN CRYSTALS

               LETTERS FROM W. HAIDINGER*

                                                                      VIENNA, 14 Nov. 1852.

   DEAR SIR,

directly.    I beg leave to introduce myself, and to address you
            I have read a notice on the interesting crystals with a

metallic surface, you described at the Belfast meeting                                       enclose
I

    by

            I
                            I

                                                                                                                                                            *(*.

                                                        II
a small portion of crystals                                     examined some years ago, which

   trust will be very interesting to you, as they almost exactly agree

with those you examined, except in the point of transparency.

The crystals send are also allied to chinine. They were discovered

   Prof. Wohler, and named Grunes Hydrochinon. To him have

been indebted also for the small portion wrapt up here. The

present crystals have evidently the same metallic aspect as those

which you described, but they have a deep and beautiful violet

blue colour by transmitted light. They are, however, but very

faintly translucent, and in no direction they appear colourless or

transparent, as  said in the notice contained in Abbe Moigno's
               I it
Cosmos 24 Octobre 1852, page 574. Thereis                                also mode of
                                                                I
                      I
                                                                           is
                                                                                          a
chemical preparation given there, but                                 failed in succeeding.

Then believe can do nothing better, than asking you the favour
   I

         a
yourself, in exchange for the small portion of hydrochinon, to send

me also very little quantity of the crystals you examined. Beside

the one here included, have examined a number of other crystals

and substances shewing similar phenomena, and lately drew up
                                                                      a

                                                                       I

                                                                                 I

                                                                                                        a
   catalogue of them, and presented to our Academy.                                          sent
a                                                               I it

separate copy, inscribed to you, together with number of others,,

to our mutual friend, Professor Miller, begging him to forward

them to you. Since this publication still examined a few more

     * The Wilhelm Haidinger Medal of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Viennaa
was awarded to Prof. Stokes in 1856. Dr Haidinger was for long period Secretary

of the Vienna Academy he was For. Mem. R. S.

      Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. pp. 1821 (1852), 'On the optical properties

of recently discovered salt of quinine.' See note added at the end of the paper.
   at
                                                 ;
                                                             a

               PREPARATION OF HERAPATH1TE                 53

crystals. The occurrence of these real surface-colours is not over
rare, but it well deserves the attention of scientific persons, and

particularly your own, who are so eminently prepared for duly

appreciating its value. Above all the double cyanurets of platinum

I Iand other substances, potash, magnesium, baryta, lithium, &c., are
of the most splendid.  believe gave Prof. Miller a few small

crystals of the magnesium compound (PtMgCy 2 or) Pt5Mg6Cyn ,

Ithe latter being the formula by Quadrat and Redtenbacher.
        was very much delighted with your observations on the

I"brushes" in the Report of the Edinburgh meeting*. There can

remain, think, no doubt that the phenomenon is produced by

Idiffraction, and your own results contributed much to ratify the

explanation, which proposed in the paper "Uber das Interferenz-
Schachbrettmuster &ct."

   IAnd now, my dear sir, beg you will accept of my apology

for thus intruding upon you, but believe me ever, with the greatest

respect                Your obedient servant,

                       W. HAIDINGER.

                                           26 Jan. 1853.

I am under very great obligations to you indeed for your kind

letter of 15th Dec., and for the crystals enclosed of that beautiful

and most remarkable substance, as also for the hints it contained,

Irespecting the formation of them, which immediately caused

to be made in our laboratory, and most successfully indeed. The

process given in Abbe Moigno's Cosmos could not succeed, because

unhappily by an error of print, there was said solution d'acide

Iinstead of solution d'iode dans 1'alcool. When got your letter
I only remembered that Prof. Wohler already had written me on

the substance, and actually sent some of the greenish metallic
Isubstance ; but omitted examining it with the microscope, only
Imaking use of my dichroscopic lens, and so failed in my first
Iexamination.
               also had polished some of it on a ground but not

polished glass surface, but as it did not assume a bright green

    * Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. n. pp. 3624.
    t But see Extracts from a letter by Prof. Stokes relating to optical subjects,

communicated by Dr Haidinger to the Vienna Academy, reprinted loc. cit.,
pp. 5660. See also letter of April 12, 1854, printed infra, p. 58.

54 POLARISATION IN DICHROIC CRYSTALS

Isurface colour, but only a deep blue one, again had laid it aside.

Now upon subjecting those beautiful crystals, deposited on the

I Imica, to a magnifying power of 90, all immediately was clear.
        was the more delighted with the sight had, as also a great

puzzle vanished, which had made me somewhat uneasy since the

Itime had read your communication, it is true not the one given

at Belfast, but only the one in Abbe Moigno's Cosmos, and still

I Imore so, when had read both Dr Herapath's papers, which also
Icompared. All the green surface colours, which had observed

Iup to that time, were coexisting with a red colour by transparency;
now the new substance for brevity's sake  have called it

Herapathite in a notice lately given in our Academy was described

as being colourless or pale greenish polarized in the direction of
the axis, in the principal section of the axis, while it was opake

and as black as midnight polarized perpendicular to it. The

green metallic surface colour you found likewise to be polarized

perpendicularly to the axis, or to agree in the direction of polariza-
tion with the more absorbed ray of light. Very thin crystals of

the Herapathite appear of a pale reddish colour, while thicker ones

are merely pale greenish, but if a rhomb of Iceland Spar is placed

upon the microscope, the thinner crystals shew the colour polarized

in the direction of the axis very pale greenish white almost entirely

colourless, so much so, that the very thinnest crystals are altogether

invisible, while the colour polarized perpendicularly to the axis

is a very beautiful more or less deep red. In the thicker crystals

the ordinary ray is more or less inclining to green, while the
extraordinary is so deep red, that it is actually opake, yet it is

possible to follow up all the intermediate stages between red and

perfectly black and opake. This observation also accounts for

the green tint of the metallic reflected light, which is then the

complementary tint to the red colour of the crystal by transparency.

It is very remarkable that the very same tints of colour appear

Iin the transparent andalusite from Brazil, a description of which

you will find in one of the papers sent, with the date of 1843,

the same pale greenish colour, the same deep hyacinth red. Thin

plates, possessing themselves a pale red colour, being laid upon

one another in a parallel position appear of a pale greenish white,

if they are crossed they shew the deep red. Andalusite could be
used like tourmaline, it were almost preferable, being so very
transparent, but it is unfortunately too rare, the herapathite would

FLUORESCENCE NOT CONNECTED WITH SURFACE COLOUR 55

likewise be an excellent 'artificial tourmaline' as Dr Herapath

says, but for the smallness of the crystals. It were a grand result,
if it should be possible to incorporate it in an isomorphous crystal

of another substance, to have larger crystals with corresponding

properties, more easily handled.

I IOf those most interesting observations of your degraded light,

  have not yet made any, if except that beautiful general appear-

ance of the solutions of quinine, or of the solution of the cyanuret

of platinum and potash in thin films, as it is retained by capillarity

Ibetween the crystals deposited on the sides and the glass vessels

in which they are formed. But have, myself, no command of a

ray of sunlight in my dwelling, and can not leave it for seeking

one anywhere else ; but M. von Ettingshausen proposed to repeat

them, when the sun shall be a little more favourable, winter being

nearly as unfavourable with us as it can be in England. The fact

Ithat you found this property in the cyanurets, should believe,

indicates* an intimate connexion between the colours of surface
and these phenomena, the 'blue' of quinine, of fluor, &c., being in

fact dispersed in all directions, it seems to me internal dispersion

indeed in regard to the whole mass of liquid, or the entire crystal,

Ibut in fact emanating from the surface of the smallest particles of
the bodies.  am very anxious to hear of your farther results,

when you shall have again set about the sun's rays.

Pray remember me kindly to Prof, arid Mrs Miller, and believe

me ever My Dear Sir most respectfully and faithfully yours,

                                     W. HAIDINGER.

                                     5 May, 1853.

I received your kind letter on the 27th March, and the

really wonderful account of your great discovery on the 30th;

II have so long deferred returning my thanks, till should have
Iread it all through, which
Iaccomplishing.              was prevented from immediately

                 perfectly agree with you in considering the

internal dispersion, or light with lowered refraction, or fluorescence,

as a phenomenon totally different from the relation of difference
of the colours of surface and body. This is proved by your own

experiments beyond any doubt. When I wrote my paper on the

                 * See next letter.

56 SURFACE AND SUBSTANCE COLOUES NOT COMPLEMENTARY

Isurface colours of several substances, was anxious to look out for

anything that should bear any similarity to the subject in the

Icommunications till then published. It seemed to me that

should not leave unnoticed the observations of Sir John Herschel

or Sir D. Brewster, rather for pointing out that there were

properties or phenomena worth the closest examination than for

comprising them under the same head. Now that you have given

the solution of the problem, there cannot remain the least doubt

respecting the difference of the two. You have now really an

Iimmense field of discovery before you, and certainly no man is
better prepared for extending it on all sides.  follow your
Ilabours with the greatest interest, and shall be most happy

to hear particularly of the results of your farther examination

of the double cyanurets.

Allow me to express my thanks particularly also for the views

on the polarized metallic colours and opacity or other phenomena*,

which you were kindly pleased to call ' a subject which especially
Ibelongs to me/
                 may be permitted to decline this designation.
I was happy indeed to make some observations in this respect,
Ibut think the field is everywhere free, as soon as the observation
Iis published; and was indeed in the habit of publishing what
I myself thought very incomplete, in order to induce other persons,

better prepared for the task, to take the inquiries in their hand.

Moreover, your method of explanation, and phraseology, are far

I Imore scientific than what could propose, as stuck as close as

possible to the observations, without entering much in any
Itheoretical detail.
                      was greatly interested in seeing the way
Iby which you were led to your discoveries. Garthamine
                                                        also

examined, but only last summer ; it is a very beautiful substance.

Your observation on the not mathematically exact complementary

state of surface and substance colour is very just; and the substance
of it forms indeed the solution of what had appeared to me

extraordinary in the case of herapathite, the black colour of

transmitted light, and the green colour of reflected light, whereas

Ithe latter depends on the red colour of transparency of a very thin
stratum contiguous to the surface.  also pointed out several

substances in which, a deviation or exception from the general law

      * The subject of these letters is further explained and elucidated, Math, and

Phys. Papers, vol. iv. pp. 3849 (Dec. 1853), 'On the metallic reflexion exhibited

by certain non-metallic substances.'

               POLARISATION OF FLUORESCENT LIGHT                                         57

seems to take place, but leaving the explanation to further
Iinquiries, which, do not doubt, will throw much light on the
Imatter.
               should like to call your attention also particularly

to the classical chrysammate of potash. This most curious

substance if spread with a knife on a hard body, for instance on

glass or crystal with a dull polish, will shew a different colour
Iif you examine it lengthways in the direction of the streak of the
knife, or across the direction of the streak.        enclose a small

quantity of it spread on paper.

      IOf all the expressions used for that beautiful phenomenon of
Ithe quinine, may be permitted to say,            like best your own

<fluorescence,' being a single word not implying any theoretical

view. It appears to me that the rays refracted beyond the

usual spectrum are by no means rendered visible to the eye,

                       is

                                I
                                                           it,
                                                                   it
                                                                        is
but that as you have excellently expressed           page 503, the

fluid or solid medium         self-luminous so long as                      under

the influenceby     the active light.  perfectly acknowledge also

the explanation of the increase of the blue light, the latterof

not being lost in the crystals of the platino-cyanide of potash,

when they are covered by thin layer of the liquid solution in
                       is                               0,
                          a                                       ;
the latter however there certainly difference in the phenomena
                                       Ia
observable on the terminal plane owing to cross-fracture, and theis

sides of the prism, the blue light being polarized perpendicularlyCI

to the incident ray in every azimuth in the former planes while

it it   polarized perpendicularly to the axis only, and not parallel to

    isin every one of the longitudinal planes M.     can not exactly

reconcile this with the statement of your letter that the blue light

emitted   platino-cyanide     is of  potassium polarized in the plane

of    the axis when the axis       perpendicular to the ray entering the

eye. Perhaps the discrepancy originated only in the use of different

words for expressing the same thing.   am in the use of observing

with the dichroscopic lens in the manner represented in the diagram
[omitted}. The ray AB entering the eye in separated into the

ordinary ray and the extraordinary ray E, shews uniformly                                0,

ofwhite from the ordinary superficial reflexion, polarized in the plane

  Eincidence, and blue, from the action of the crystallized substance

itself on the colour, polarized perpendicularly to the axis. In the

position above represented Fig. perpendicular to the axis at
                                     1
                                          2

                                                                                a
                                                                                     is
the same time perpendicular to the incident ray, but when position

of the crystal  is  chosen like Fig. [omitted], then the blue ray

58 EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

polarized perpendicularly to the axis lies in the plane of incidence,
and is no longer visible in the extraordinary image E, which in

that case is without either lustre or colour, but it reaches the eye

at the same time and with the same kind of polarization, as the
Ilight reflected and polarized in the ordinary way in 0.
                                                          doubt

not, the whole will find its natural explanation, whenever you shall

Ihave exposed your observations more circumstantially. Within

these days shall also send my observations on the herapathite r
and the reconciliation of the red and green. And now again pray

accept my most sincere thanks for your so highly valuable,,

interesting and important papers, as also for the kind letter you

favoured me with. But the whole range of the inquiries is so vast,,

that it requires time, to comprise in all its variety. I beg leave

to be remembered also to Prof. Miller, and believe me, My Dear

Sir, yours ever most truly and respectfully,

                                          W. HAIDINGER.

                                              12 April, 1854.

   I Iindeed should have answered your kind, and well may add,,

grand letter of 1st Febr. immediately, so much pleasure I felt in

unfolding  it, it,  but unfortunately was rather unwell at the time
                                  I
  received so that in fact did not read and study all through,I

till about three weeks after. In the meantime communicated it
I                   it, I                     I

                                                      it

to my friend Professor von Ettingshausen, who likewise was very

much gratified with and who urged me particularly, to give anI itIr

account of to our Academy, in which heartily concur with him
and which still propose to do, but was detained till now, as well

as from answering and giving you my thanks for your most
interesting communications, by various other avocations. As to-

the memoirs and books sent, indeed learn from your letter, that

there must have been some error committed in packing up and

addressing the parcels. But probably this took place at our own
dispatching office and am from time to time in the necessity of
                    a

                              ;

                               I
offering apologies, or sending numbers lost, as we have at present
not less than 157 Societies or Institutions to whom our Memoirs

are sent, and great many more, between 600 and 650, to whom

the Annals are regularly sent. The parcel for you was ordered
to be enclosed to the Royal Society, as also that for Prof. Miller,

   CHROMATIC ABERRATION OF THE EYE                                         59

Iagreeably to the communication I had from the latter, while had

the pleasure of seeing him in Vienna. To him was also enclosed

a set of our publications for the Cambridge Philosophical Society,

in order to endeavour to open a correspondence, and if the Society

were inclined to an exchange of our publications. If you happen

to see Prof. Miller, should be much obliged to you, you would
   I it,

                   I
                         I

                                    I

                                                 if
kindly ask him, whether or not that parcel has arrived. Perhaps

this also was mislaid or lost, and should in that case immediately

send another set, taking care to have them regularly addressed

and enclosed to the Royal Society.          was delighted with the

copious details into which you entered on the different subjects.

As to the phenomenon of the 'Schachbrettmuster*,'                  quite concur

with you in considering [it] as one of the more simple character
you claim, and not of any 'Interference' properly or rather more

strictly so called, consisting of the successive spectra distinct from

one another. But took      in a more general sense, and then
   I
        I

               it it

                         is
a name was necessary to call the phenomenon by, and so the

one was chosen, and then     difficult to change afterwards.
                                                   it

Diffraction would have been a more suitable word. But when

I  published my account rather more thought of publishing the

few observations that had struck me, than of entering into a series

of investigations to settle the matter.  I  requested some younger

persons to follow up the study, particularly by projecting the

colours on screen.      am happy to learn that indeed you have
   a

            it I
done so, and added to your explanatory observations, which are

very just in every respect. Particularly the observation of                a

bright luminous point through a dark blue cobalt glass bears an

exact and as you call 'striking' analogy.   likewise fell on that
                    it

                         I it

                                        I

                                                               it
observation and described or at least alluded to in a paper on

the 'Lowe'schen Ringe'f.'  was endeavouring to observe the

red coloured 'brushes' in candle light or sun light, which you had

described in the Report of the Meeting in Edinburgh in 1850,

Notices and Abstracts,     20 and as     seemed to me, that the
   it,
           p.

                             ;

                             it
colours of the fringes in the 'diffraction-chessboard' as you
would like to call exactly agree with the tints of the brushes,

the observation of a distant candle light, red in the centre, fringed
outside with blue, presented itself very naturally. Being brought
nearer the eye than the distance of distinct vision, a small luminous

   * Footnote, supra, p. 53.
      Sitzungsberichte der Kais. Akad. d. Wiss. 1852, July, Bd 9. S. 240.
t

60 HAIDINGER'S BRUSHES

point is of a violet blue, but fringed outside with a deep red, the
faint tints of yellow and pale blue of white light being heightened

by means of the blue cobalt glass to the splendid blue and deep

ruby red of the phenomenon. But as I had not met with a

I
                             it,

                          II

                                       it
                                                              it
description of     though  had been published by Dove and

believe also by Plateau, just mentioned without naming any

author, but had afterwards an opportunity of acknowledging Dove's

prior publication. Now see that also yourself had long ago

observed the same want of coincidence of the red and violet rays

for distant objects, proceeding however from a different starting

point.
        had great pleasure also in reading your account in Poggen-

dorff's Annals on metallic reflections, particularly with regard
I
   II

        I
            I if

                   II
                                                                is
                                                        I
                                                                I
                                                                                           it
to the carthamine, as well as also on the red colour of substance

of the herapathite and the supermanganate of potash.              readily

confess your observations to have been conducted with much

greater accuracy, as never made any use of instruments to see

Fraunhofer's lines, which indeed almost indispensable to convey
a more deep insight into the nature of the phenomena. As to

myself, must content myself with stating what can skim as
were from the surface, being drawn in so many different directions,
and with but poor means to strive at greater perfection. This

does not prevent me, however, from experiencing the greatest

pleasure other persons explain the same phenomena better than

  was able to do. In giving an account of your kind letter to our

Academy shall have occasion to bespeak several of these points,

and shall not fail to send you the communications as soon as

they are printed.  lately dwelt upon the fact of the absolute

interception of every trace of light by two say Nicol's prisms

plates polarized perpendicularly to each other, as a reason to

consider the colour of the brushes as really produced by diffraction,

the same as the penumbral tints of the 'chessboard,' the red side

of the spectrum being extinguished by the blue, the blue side by

the red, all of referable to the eye not being achromatic.        am
                it

                                 I
                                                    I

                                                            I
very anxious to see your explanation. As to any separate copies

you would kindly destine to me, shall be most glad to receive

them, also the mathematical ones, notwithstanding am far myself

from being a consummate mathematician; but particularly my
friend Prof, von Ettingshausen takes the greatest interest in all

your observations, inquiries and results. You might kindly direct

                    MAGNETISM OF CRYSTALS                                  61

the parcels to be sent to me through the Geographical, or the
Geological, or the Linnean, or the Chemical, or Palaeontographic
Society, or the Government Geological Survey Office, from all of
whom we receive publications. We send our publications also
to the Royal Society, but hitherto without receiving any return.
Or through Messrs Pamplin or Williams and Norgate of London,

and Braumuller bookseller of Vienna. With the most sincere

thanks for your kind, and comprehensive and most interesting

letter, believe me ever My Dear Sir yours very sincerely,

                                                      W. HAIDINDER.

   IPray give also my best compliments to Prof. Miller,- Prof.

Sedgwick, Prof. Whewell, all of whom had formerly the pleasure
of meeting somewhere or other.

     LETTERS FROM JULIUS ROBERT PLUCKER.

     The following statement was made by General Sabine, Presi-
dent of the Royal Society, at the Anniversary Meeting, Nov. 30,
1866, in transmitting the Copley Medal to Professor Pliicker.

     To an audience not exclusively mathematical it is obviously
impossible to enter into details of researches which deal with

geometrical questions of no ordinary difficulty. Amongst these,
however, may be indicated, as especially appreciated by those who
                    the progress of                                        his theory of
are  interested in  of plane curves  aasnadleyvtieclaolpegdeoinmtehtery,"  Algebraische
the  singularities

Curven," with its six equations connecting them with the order of
the curves : the papers on point and line coordinates, and on the
general use of symbols, may also be noticed as establishing his
claim to a position in the department of abstract science which is
attained by few even of those who give to it their undivided
attention. But Professor Plticker has high merits in two other
Iwidely different fields of research, viz. in Magnetism and Spec-

trology : and to these may more freely invite your attention.
     Shortly after Faraday's discovery of the sensibility of bodies
generally to the action of a magnet, and of diamagnetism,
Professor Pliicker, in repeating some of Faraday's experiments,
a

                                                                                         it is,

                                                                                                                                                                                    ;
was led to the discovery of magnecrystallic action, that                   that

     crystallized body behaves differently in the magnetic field
according to the orientation of certain directions in the crystal.
The crystals first examined were optically uniaxal, and                    was

found that the optic axis was driven into the equatorial position

62 AWARD OF COPLEY MEDAL TO PLUCKER

(that of course, assuming that the magnecrystallic action not
masked, in consequence of the external form of the body, by the
paramagnetic or diamagnetic character of the substance). New
facts, discovered both by Faraday and by Pliicker himself, led him
itto a modification of this law, to the effect that the optic axis wasis ;
impelled, according to the nature of the crystal, either into theis
            is,equatorial or the axial position. This subject was afterwards
                    isfollowed out by Professor Plticker into the more complicated cases
in which the conditions of crystalline symmetry are such as to

leave the crystal optically biaxal and after having recognized
the insufficiency of a first empirical generalization of the law
applicable to crystals of the rhombohedral or pyramidal system,is ;
and accordingly to uniaxal crystals, he was led to assimilate a
crystal' to an assemblage of small ellipsoids, capable of magnetic;
induction, having for their principal planes the planes of crystal-
line symmetry where such exist and to apply Poisson's theory.
The result of this investigation contained in an elaborate paper
read before the Royal Society in 1857, and published in the
Philosophical Transactions for the following year. In this paper
Professor Plticker has deduced from theory, and verified by careful

experiments, the mathematical laws which regulate the magne-
crystallic action. These laws have not necessarily involved in
them the somewhat artificial hypothesis respecting the magnetic
structure of a crystal from which they were deduced and at the
close of his memoir Professor Pliicker recognizes the theory of
Professor Sir William Thomson, with which he then first became

acquainted, as a sound basis on which they might be established.
The laws, however, remain identically the same in whichever way

they may be derived.
     Another subject to which Professor Pliicker has paid much
                        the curious action of powerful magnets on the
attention
luminous electric discharge in glass tubes containing highly
rarefied gas. In this case the luminous discharge found to be
concentrated along certain curved lines or surfaces. He has
succeeded in obtaining the mathematical definition of these

curved lines or surfaces, by simple application of the knowna
laws of electromagnetic action, regarding an element of theis

discharge as the element of an electric current. With regard tois
the blue negative light, for instance, starting from a point in the
negative electrode, he has shown that there are two totally
distinct paths, one or other of which, according to circumstances,
may take, going either within the enclosed space along a line of
              force, or                         surface of the glass in what he
magnetic   "  epipolic   else along the           the locus of a point in which
calls an                 curve," which

the inner surface of the vessel touched by the line of magnetic

force passing through that point.
Angstrom appears to have been the first to notice that the
spectrum of the electric spark striking between metallic electrodes

          VARIETIES OF SPECTRA OF AN ELEMENT                       63

through air on another gas at ordinary pressures is a compound
one, consisting of very bright lines varying with the metal, and
others, usually less bright, depending only on the gas. Under the
circumstances which presented themselves in his experiments, the

latter can frequently be but ill observed ; and the diffused light of
a rarefied gas in a wide tube is but faint, and does not form very
definite spectra. But Pliicker found that by employing tubes
which were capillary in one part, brilliant light and definite
spectra were obtained in the narrow part. These spectra were
observed by him with great care, and were found to be charac-
teristic of the several gases and to indicate their chemical nature,

though   the gases might be present     inItsucfuhrthmeirnutaeppqeuaarendtitythaats
utterly  to elude chemical research.

compound gases of any kind were instantaneously, or almost
instantaneously, decomposed ; at least the spectra they offered
were the spectra of their constituents.
In a recent memoir, which has only just been published in the
Philosophical Transactions, Professor Pliicker has investigated the
two totally different spectra frequently afforded by the same
elementary substance according as it is submitted to the instan-
taneous discharge of a Leyden jar charged by an induction-coil, or
rendered                                discharge of the coil, or else,
          incandescent by the  simple      The two spectra show a
in some   cases, by ordinary   flames.

remarkable difference in character, and are not merely different in
the number and position of the lines which they show. Some
phenomena which he had previously noticed receive their ex-

planation by this twofold spectrum.
This difference of spectra is attributed by Professor Pliicker,
with the greatest probability, to a difference in the temperature
of the glowing gas when the two are respectively produced. The
discovery opens up a new field of research, the exploration of
which may throw much light on the correct interpretation of
celestial phenomena, especially in relation to the physical condition
of nebular and cometary matter.

                                         BONN, den 28 Sept. 1858.

DEAR SIR,

             Ihr ausfiihrliches Schreiben kam in Bonn an demselben

Tage an, als ich meine Ferienreise antrat, von der ich gestern
zuriickgekehrt bin. Ich muss noch eine zweite kleine Reise
machen, aber nach dem 20 October werde ich Bonn nicht mehr

verlassen und dann erst Musse finden, auf Ihr verehrtes Schreiben
erschopfend zu antworten. Jetzt aber schon einige vorlaufige
Worte. Der Eindruck den dieses Schreiben auf mich machte,

64 MAGNETO-CRYSTALLIC THEORY

war class ich einen grossen Fehler gernacht habe, wenn auch
unabsichtlich, class ich in der eingesandteri Abhandlung der

Arbeit des H. Thomson* nicht Erwahnung gethun habe, der, was

keinem Zweifel rnehr imterliegt, zuerst die Theorie des Magnetis-

mus der Krystalle gegeben hat. Es war mir lieb nachtraglich

zu sehen, dass diese Theorie mit den von mir mitgetheilten

Resultaten libereinstimmt  Ich habe niemals diese Theorie
t
                          ;H. Poisson zuschreiben wollen. Von diesem und seinen Nach-
                                                                          -f-.
                                                                                                                                                             ;folgern habe ich nun die Theorie der Induction eines unendlich
weit entfernten Poles auf ein dreiaxiges Ellipsoid adoptirt und fiir
den Fall einer Ellipsoids aus Eisen verificirt. Die doppelte

JBeobachtung dass unter der Voraussetzung paralleler Kraftlinien,

der ganze Krystall sich einerseits richtet wie jedes beliebige

Fragment desselben, und andrerseits wie ein Ellipsoid, das gegen
die Krystallform eine gegebene Lage hat gestattete mir aus

dieser Theorie die Theorie der magnetischen Induction der

Krystalle unmittelbar abzuleiten, nachdem H. Thomson fruher
schon, von mir unberlicksichtigt, seine Theorie dieser Induction

gegeben hatte.

     Mir scheint es hiernach am angemessensten, und Sie stimmen

mir hierin vielleicht bei, dass meine Abhandlung gedruckt und

ihr eine Note mit spaterm Datum hinzugefugt wtirde, in der ich

mein Versehen redressirte und liberhaupt einige kurze sachliche

Bemerkungen machte.

     Ich sehe bisher nichts was einer vollstandigen Ubereinstim-
mung unserer beiderseitigen Ansichten entgegen ware doch
in einigen Wochen schreibe ich ausfuhrlicher. Ich bedaure nur,
Ihnen so viele Miihe zu machen. Ich bediene mich in diesem

Briefe der deutschen Sprache, um nicht, durch eine ungebrauchliche
Anwendung eines Englischen Ausdrucks, vielleicht missverstanden

zu werden.

     Meine beiden kleinen Abhandlungen werden Sie von London

aus richtig erhalten haben, deren In halt H. Tyndall so freundlich
war in dem Phil. Mag. mitzutheilen. Seitdem haben die schonen
Erscheimmgen, von denen ich einige H. Miller bei Ruhmkorff

in Paris zu zeigen Gelegenheit fand, in einer einfachen mathema-

    * 'A Mathematical Theory of Magnetism,' by Prof. W. Thomson, Phil. Trans.

1849 and 1850 reprinted with additions in Papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism,

pp. 344592.
          On the magnetic induction of crystal,' by Julius Pliicker. Phil. Trans.

(Mar. 26) 1857, pp. 543587. See note at end.

     MUTUAL INFLUENCE OF ELEMENTS NEGLIGIBLE                                           65

tischen Theorie ihre Erklarung erhalten. Die Abhandlung dariiber
ist bereits gedruckt. Eine zweite Abhandlung liber die Spectra
der verschiedenen Gase und die Analyse der Gase vermittelst
ihrer Spectra ist unter der Presse (Von beiden eine Notiz im
Cosmos). Ich werde mich beehren, die Abdriicke, sobald sie mir
zugehen, einzusenden.

                                         Hochachtungsvoll der Ihrige,

                                                               PLUCKER.

                                                            BONN, 4th of November, 1858.

   ISince my last letter read with the greatest interest your

communication and learnt from that all phenomena regarding
magnecrystallic induction, as described in my paper, may be
I
                                                          it,
mathematically deduced from the hypothesis, that the induced

particles don't sensibly act on each other. But this hypothesis,
  think, does not permit us to take into consideration the exterior

form of the induced body, and gives no information about the
Ifdirection of an isotropic ellipsoid.
                                                               we intend to consider both

kinds of phenomena, we can scarcely avoid to enter into con-

siderations analogous to those communicated by Poisson and

his successors. For this moment                                am not able to judge,
     I                                                         I
                   I                                                       I if

                             I
Mr Thomson's method be simpler and more elegant; am inclined

to think so.

In regard to myself beg you to remember that my intention

was not at all to enter into the general problem of mathematic

physics. adopted the results then known to myself; the theory

   deduced according to Poisson's principles of the magnetisa-
tion of an ellipsoid induced by an infinitely distant pole.

partially verified this theory in the case of an ellipsoid of iron,

and by means of new hypothesis, suggested to me by mere
                 a

experiment,   I  succeeded to get a mathematical law of the

phenomena presented by magnetically induced crystals. To be

sure, properly speaking, the theory of the magnetisation of crystals

not due to Poisson. got myself by an additional hypothesis,
is               I     it
                    I
  I
but thought what added myself rather too insignificant as not
to attribute the whole theory to Poisson. If
                                                               had known
                                                               I

                                                                                    5
Mr Thomson's theory would have chosen my expressions more
                    I

s. B. ii.

66 MAGNETO-CRYSTALLIC ATTRACTIONS

cautiously. Then there is no doubt, the theory of the magnetisa-

tion of crystals has been presented by this great philosopher before

I myself deduced from Poisson's results a similar theory. This

fact is to be restablished.

     You are, dear sir, perfectly right in saying, that all results

I obtained till now by observation and calculation can be deduced

from the mere fact of the existence of the ellipsoid. We know

of this ellipsoid the magnetic axes only, perpendicular to its

circular sections, i.e. one homogeneous equation between the

squares of all three axes. You arrive directly to these results.

Similar results are obtained by substituting an ellipsoid of iron

to the crystal, where the reciprocal action of particles is not to

be neglected. There is also an ellipsoid of induction if the in-

ducing pole is infinitely distant, which Poisson proved first.

IShould there be no physical connexion between both cases?

think there is one, without attributing any importance to the

Ihypothesis proposed.

     The experimental researches regarding the magnetisation of

Iisotropic ellipsoids offered to me such an interest that prepared

some series of new experiments, depending upon the ratio of any

Itwo axes of the ellipsoid of induction. For this purpose pro-

Icured two powerful cylindric electromagnets, exhibiting an
exactly straight line as magnetic axis.  procured also from

Birmingham two fine pieces of metallic nickel and cobalt, to

be turned out into ellipsoids, quite similar to the iron one,
Iexamined by myself (cobalt seems to be too hard).
                                                    expect

Ito find, in the case of nickel, the angle formed by the two magnetic
axes greater than in the case of iron.   know very well that the

attraction of an infinitely distant pole on an isotropic ellipsoid

Idisappears, but hope to be able to determine approximately

the ratio of two such attractions along two axes of the ellipsoid :

this ratio, which theoretically takes the form 0/0, being the ratio

of the corresponding axes of the ellipsoid of induction. The axes

of this ellipsoid, according to Poisson's theory, may be deduced

by means of elliptical functions from the axes of the given

ellipsoid, &c., &c.

INot having at first found a sensibly different attraction
exerted on a crystal along different directions,  was much

retarded in my earlier theoretical researches. Prof. Tyndall
proved the fact. In certain cases and under certain conditions

                    MOLECULAR MODELS OF MAGNETIC CRYSTALS                                67

      the difference is very considerable; in one case the ratio of

      the attractions, along the magnetic axis and perpendicular to

      I it,
                      2I

                                                         :

                                               1.

                           I

                                                     if
             approached to     don't know the first observation must

      be referred to Faraday (Note of Thomson's paper*).
              know there are experiments made with flat poles in order

      to get parallel lines of force, but this case seems to me a rather

      complicated one.         intend to repeat these experiments after

      having determined between the two flat poles the lines of force,
      which now may be done in the most striking manner by adhibiting

      electric light.
               fully adopt that body pointing like a crystal may be

      obtained as well by putting spheres in different distances from
      II I                  Ia
                                       Ia
      each other along different directions (Prof. Tyndall) as by giving
      to symmetrically placed particles non-spherical form, an elliptical

      for instance.

             am very sorry, Dear Sir, that gave to you so much trouble,

      highly regretting that did not call on you at Cambridge before

        left England. All would have been settled in half an hour.
if I I
        agree       if  you would send my paper, as              it  stands, to the press  ;

      then may,         if  convenient, add a few pages of notes, regarding

      especially the priority of Thomson's theory of magneto-crystallic

      action. You had the kindness to propose to me three different
      ways of correcting the proofs. would be extremely obliged to you,

         you should superintend the correction of the press. But at the
                                  II
      same time you may, wherever convenient, dispose on my cooperation.'
              send to you only one of the two papers announced in my last

      letter the copies of the other one On the Electric Spectra of
      I

                ';
      rases (the proofs have been corrected by myself nearly a month

      jo) are not yet in my hands.         follow up with greatest interest

      ihis new kind of chemical analysis. Since my letter made a new
                                                                     I

      sries of experiments regarding the electric discharge. Formerly

       had examined the light at the negative pole, which gave to
      te the most splendid phenomena of the illumination of the lines

      it )f  magnetic force. Recently got no less splendid appearances
                                  I
             the positive pole. In longer exhausted tubes the electric
                                       is
      mrrent, with its dark bands,         the mere continuation of this

      light, separated by dark space from the negative light. By
                            a

      substituting to the tube a small ball (about two inches diameter)
                                     the two platina electrodes, you will
      and by conducting through  it

                    * Papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism  ;  see pp. 499, 504, 540.

                                                                              52

68 POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE LIGHTS IN VACUUM TUBES

observe in a most striking way the peculiar light of both electrodes
at the same time. While the negative light is bent by the
magnet into the finest surfaces, as described already by myself,
the positive light generally moves along spirals, starting from
the positive wire towards the magnetic surface which passes

through the negative wire, but not joining this surface. A full

account of all these phenomena will be published.
     Excuse my bad English. Highly obliged to you,

                                    Dear Sir, and most truly yours

                                                               PLUCKER.

                                                        2/1/59.

   IIn copying my paper omitted by mistake (after p. 27, line 11)

a longer passage regarding the correction of the numbers of the

table. Thus my numbers become not intelligible. After having

restored the omitted passage (with abbreviations) all my numbers
will stand, except the values of 6^, #n2,
                                               2  inadvertently  written
                                           1U

down. In repeating the calculation with the sufficient number of
Idecimals got the former numbers (only 4,301 instead of 4,300
Iand 5,649 instead of 5,647).
                               see from your numbers that the

law of formula (30) is equally verified by the numbers of the
Iincorrected table. The approximation being in both cases more

than sufficient, think a passage (p. 27, line 9-5 from bottom)

rather insignificant and therefore suppressed it. Thus the

corrections will give no trouble to the printer. In order to
Iprevent any further mistake
                               copied the whole part of the

Ipaper.
        have not the least objection that my paper will appear at
Ia later period. By then
                          will have found time to try new

Iexperiments on the same subject, since long prepared.
     Excuse, dear sir, all the trouble gave to you.

The questioned salt is the mineral, of green colour, commonly

called with us Uranglimmer, therefore phosphate of uranium and

copper.

My best thanks for all your kindness.

                               Most sincerely Yours,

                                                  PLUCKER.

FLUORESCENCE DUE TO CATHODE RAYS                                          69

IP.S. Among the great number of observations                   made on

the electric discharge through different gasvacua, there are many

I Ivery beautiful too regarding fluorescent light, particularly of
glass, which wished to show you.  got, for instance, spheres

of German glass, illuminated all over their surface with a beautiful

uniform green light, produced by a rather dark electric discharge

within*. By means of the magnet the fluorescent green light

is concentrated to determined curves, where the magnetic negative

light touches the interior surface of the glass ; in certain cases

too we get very well designed spirals of fluorescent green light,

characterising the positive electric light. With English glass,

containing lead, the same phenomena will appear, there is no

doubt, in the finest blue light.

                                  BONN, 3rd of July, 1865.

In reply to your kind letter of April 7th it will be desirable

for me to make a few remarks with respect to my geometrical

Ipaper and its title (.                  call a ' complex of rays '
     The geometrical conception of what
Ihas nothing to do, I think, with Mr Cayley's determination of
curves by means of intersected right lines.       presented the

fundamental idea in 1846, but afterwards it entirely disappeared

from my memory. The same idea recurred when by Mr Sylvester's

Isuggestion at the (Newcastle) Meeting became desirous to resume

Geometry, entirely neglected by me so many years since. In

Iorder to make its analytical development successful introduced

a fifth coordinate (ro- sp), depending upon r, s, p, a. After its
introduction an immense field of geometrical researches was at

once opened. Here, instead of point or plane, the right line is

Iconsidered as the element of space. Under this supposition

presented my Paper.

   IAfter a short indication of my general views gave in the

IPaper a complete theory of complexes of the first order. In its

second Section gave an application of the most simple complexes

Iof the second order to double refraction. This digression was
ill calculated fully to explain my proper views.  had preferred

* The cathode steam.              Of the British Association.
   t ' On a New Geometry of Space ' Phil. Trans. (Dec. 22), 1864, pp. 725791.

There follows 'Fundamental views regarding Mechanics' Phil. Trans. (May 29),

1866, pp. 361 380 in which the idea of a dyname or wrench is introduced.

70 THEORY OF COMPLEXES OF LINES

to give an outline of the general theory of complexes of the second
order, but an attempt to do so appeared too long.

    A plane curve is analytically determined by means of two

coordinates, a surface by three, a complex by five (one of which

depends upon the four remaining ones). A right line within

a plane, a plane, a linear complex, is represented by equations
of the first degree. Conies within a plane, surfaces of the second
order, complexes of that order, are represented by the general
equation of the second degree between two, three, five coordinates.
Let me add a few words in order to explain what a complex of rays
of the second order is.

    A surface of the second order being given, there is in each

intersecting plane a conic enveloped by rays tangent to the

surface. All such conies, constituting the surface, as well as

the surface itself, may be said to be represented by the equation

of a complex of the second order. In the general case of a complex
of that order, there is likewise in each plane a conic enveloped
by its rays, and all such conies may likewise be said to be repre-
sented by its equation : but the different conies do not constitute

a surface. On the other side each poinfc of space is the centre
of a cone of the second order, the generatrices of which are rays of
the complex. The system of all such cones may be said to be
represented by its equation, but, in the general case, the cones do

not envelope a surface.

being the equations of a ray, the general equation of a complex

of the second order involves 19 constants, which are reduced to 9

if it represents a surface. If the axes of the surface fall within

the axes of coordinates, the number of constants is reduced to

three. Under the same conditions of symmetry the equation of the
-complex in the general case is
                                                 sp)"- = 0.
             Ar2 + Bs* + C + Dp* + E<TZ + F(r<r

In admitting the following two equations of condition between the

constants  AD = BE=CF,

the distribution through space of the conies, indicated by the
equation, is such that all belong to the same surface, which in

making use of ordinary coordinates is represented by

COMPLEXES OF THE SECOND ORDER                                             71

    I have before me a long series of curious results concerning

complexes of the second order ; others will occur in treating their
general equation in a way quite analogous to that followed in the
discussion of conies and surfaces of the second order. But here

Ithe field to explore is a still more extensive one. In moments of

leisure intend to prepare a Paper for publication, containing

some fragments.                                        after all

   I Iftake the liberty to submit these few remarks.
you think the title improper, I propose to replace it by the-
Ifollowing : " On a new Mode of representing Space in Geometry."*
     When at first communicated the contents of my Paper to-

Prof. Sylvester, he intimated that there might be some connection
Ibetween my Paper and one of his, but as have since heard
I Ifnothing from him conclude that this is not the case.
                                                                          you

think it desirable I will write myself to Prof. Cayley who has

always been very friendly toward me.

                   I am, My Dear Sir, Yours truly,

                                                       PLUCKER.
The sheet proof will reach me at Bonn till August 19.

                                    BONN, 2lst of March, 1865.

The necessity of communicating with Dr Hittorf of Miinster

had caused a delay in my reply to your letter.

    As to your verbal corrections to my bad English I have only

Ito express thanks and to regret for giving you so much trouble*.
         have called at Henry's. Five stones are printed; there

Iremain five the printing of which will require two or three
months, as some colours need a longer time.  was quite satisfied
Iwith what saw. The stones will be preserved until the safe

arrival of the plates is announced
                       You put the question "Is
(Page 19, art. 53, 1.                                                     true
4C

           2

                       7).

                                                                       ?

                                                                     is

                                           iIs is it
of Acetylene H which according to Berthelot         formed from
its elements by the electric discharge " The question
                                                                          most

decidedly to be answered in the affirmative. There                      think

     * 'On the Spectra of ignited Gases and Vapours, with especial regard to the

different spectra of the same elementary gaseous substance,' by J. Pliicker and
W. Hittorf, Phil. Trans. (Feb. 23), 1864, pp. 129.

72 SPECTRA OF COMPOUND GASES

Ino contradiction. But as the same question might be put by

others think it suitable to intercalate at the end of art. 54 the

following :

    "Acetylene, HC4 2, though according to Berthelot and Morren

formed from its elements when Davy's coal-light is produced

within an atmosphere of Hydrogen, nevertheless when introduced
into our tubes it is rapidly decomposed by the discharge and

most incompletely recomposed after the discharge is passed. The

inside of the tubes is instantly blackened; and in the first moment

only, with the spectrum of Hydrogen, we perceive the groups of

coal-lines seen in the case of Olefiant gas."

Mr Hittorf writes: As we worked on the coal spectrum
IBerthelot's observation was rather new.
                                               prepared the gas in the

way commonly made use of by Berthelot, &c., &c.

     (Page 20, end of art. 56). My mind is not quite settled on
the question whether there be in some instances a spectrum of an

undecomposed gas as A. Mitscherlich supposes. The reference to

art. 61 concerns the mere fact that the absence of a gas is not

proved by the absence of its spectrum.
     With a former letter Dr Hittorf sent me an evacuated tube

which does not permit the discharge neither of Ruhmkorff's smaller

Icoil nor of a Leyden jar. I intended to send it to you when had
Iopportunity. In his last letter he writes : " made progress in
Iconstructing evacuated tubes.
                                 got one, with platina wires

nearly in contact, not permitting the discharge of Ruhmkorff's

large coil to pass if the length of the spark in open air does not

exceed four inches."

Lately my attention has been engrossed by certain brilliant

phenomena presented by calcareous spar, proper to be submitted
Ito mathematical analysis.
                            gave an account of the results

obtained in our Philosophical Society to which a short abstract
Irefers in the Cologne Gazette.
Iletter, though                  take liberty to add it to 'my

                 fear on account of its brevity it may not be

sufficient to give an idea of the subject, connected as well with

the theory of luminous meteors as with the structure and genesis

of crystals

                      My Dear Sir, Most truly Yours,

                                                 PLUCKER

NATURE OF COLLOIDAL SOLUTION             73

FROM THOMAS GRAHAM.

               4, MORETON SQUARE, W.C.

                         6 July 1861.

MY DEAR SIR,.

         I am much gratified by your attention to the condition

of the colloidal solutions described in my paper, and shall take an

early opportunity to forward .a few specimens, as you desire, for

Iyour more particular study.             am inclined to think
     After reflecting upon your remarks

that you will obtain some light from the observation of silicic acid,

one of these solutions which has the advantage of being colourless.

The liquid condition of all such bodies, it is to be remembered, is

not permanent. Now in silicic acid the transition to the gelatinous

(solid) form is visibly preceded by a faint opalescence of the liquid.
This gradually increases during a few hours or even days, and is
sometimes very beautiful. But it is sure to end, sooner or later,

in the somewhat sudden solidification of the mass. The previous

opalescence may very well be due to suspended solid matter, like

Faraday's highly divided gold, as your theory supposes. It is

however the effect of an incalculably minute amount of suspended

matter, and does not touch the great mass of colloidal matter
present. In short the opalescence may be due to suspended

matter, although the colloid is truly liquid. Indeed one or two
per cent, of such substances generally produce a firm jelly, on

passing from the liquid condition, while the solutions operated

upon were perfectly limpid with from 3 to 10 per cent, of substance
in solution.

     That colloids are really in solution appears also to follow from
the fact that they are diffusive. They possess the property, and
of several the rate has been accurately observed. They may be

twenty or fifty times less mobile than any crystalloids; but there
appears to be nothing liquid that is absolutely non-diffusive.

A liquid colloid also, such as caramel, is found to diffuse through

a jelly, as well as in pure water.

74 OPALESCENCE IN COLLOIDAL SOLUTIONS

   I have only further to add that the permanent or nearly

permanent opalescence seen in ferrocyanide of copper is by no
means a common property of colloidal liquids. Indeed the last
named and the metaperoxide of iron are the only liquids of the
class in which it has been yet observed. The property is particularly
decided in the last solution, as was first observed by Peau de St

Gilles. It seems hazardous, therefore, to infer much respecting*

the constitution of colloidal liquids from what appears to be an
unessential character.

    At the same time the solution of a colloid must be something

very different from ordinary solution, as we know solution in the

case of crystalloids. It would be interesting to know whether the

difference in the two forms of solution is marked by any optical
distinction between them.

                                     Believe me, My Dear Sir,

                                                 Very faithfully yours,

                                                            THO. GRAHAM.

ON SPECTRUM ANALYSIS.

PROF. STOKES TO SIR J. LUBBOCK.

                  4, WINDSOR TERRACE, MALAHIDE, Co. DUBLIN.

                        4 August, 1881.

DEAR SIR JOHN LUBBOCK,

I I IArmagh.
got your proof here*, which was forwarded from

expect to be going there tomorrow.             saw Miss

Stokes the day before yesterday, and gave her your message.
I have read your proof, and have made some reference marks
Iin the margin, numbers enclosed in circles.
Imisprints which                               also corrected a few

                  happened to see. It is no trouble to correct

them, and they might be overlooked, especially by the author, who

is apt to read a proof as it was meant to be.

In what follows, the numbers refer to the reference marks.

1. A few of the more conspicuous of the fixed lines were

discovered by Wollaston near the beginning of the century, by

    * See Sir J. Lubbock's (now Lord Avebury) Presidential Address to the
British Association, Jubilee Meeting, York, 1881, Eeport, pp. 2548.

         HISTORY OF SPECTRUM ANALYSIS                      75

viewing a slit through a prism applied to the naked eye. This

observation however remained but little noticed.
I2. Long ago, but
                            have not got the date, and have not

reference books here, Fox Talbot showed that the red given to a

flame by strontium and the red due to a salt of lithium might be

Iat once distinguished by the prism. I think too, but am not

sure, that he dwelt on the delicacy of this test for the detection of

lithium. I do not recollect whether this was before or after 1835
[Wheatstone's experiments]. It is to KirchhofT and Bunsen that

we owe the great impetus that has been given to spectrum analysis,
and perhaps it would be proper to mention their names in this

connexion ; it rather looks as if they had merely applied what had
been done by their predecessors. It is true however that it cannot

be called their discovery.

     3. The exact coincidence of position in the particular case         v

of the double line D, between the dark line of the solar spectrum
and the bright double line D seen in certain flames, had long before

been demonstrated by Fraunhofer. It was not however then known

that the bright line was due to the presence of a compound of

sodium.

Foucault was the first to obtain the double dark line D

artificially, by passing strong light through an electric arc, which

itself alone gave out the bright line D. He did not apparently
attempt to connect the presence of D with any particular substance.

I(L'lnstitut, 1848.)

      know I think what Sir William Thomson was alluding to*.

I knew well, what was generally known, and is mentioned by

Herschel in his treatise on Light, that the bright D seen in flames
Iis specially produced when a salt of soda is introduced.
                                                           connected
Iit in my own mind with the presence of sodium, and suppose

others did so too. The coincidence of position of the bright and

Idark D is too striking to allow us to regard it as fortuitous. In

conversation with Thomson explained the connexion of the dark

and bright line by the analogy of a set of piano strings tuned to

the same note, which if struck would give out that note, and also

                            it,
                                           it

                                                         if

                                                                  it

                                                                 I
would be ready to sound to take up in fact,                were sounded

in air. This would imply absorption of the aerial vibrations, as

otherwise there would be a creation of energy. Accordingly

accounted for the presence of the dark D in the solar spectrum

         * See Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. Appendix.

76 PKINCIPLE OF BALFOUR STEWART AND KIRCHHOFF

by supposing that there was sodium in the atmosphere, capable
of absorbing light of that particular refrangibility. He asked me

I Iif there were any other instances of such coincidences between

bright and dark lines, and said thought that there was one
mentioned by Brewster. He was much struck with this, and

jumped to the conclusion that to find out what substances were

in the stars we must compare the positions of the dark lines seen

in their spectra with the spectra of metals etc.

On the strength of this conversation, and of his having

Imentioned the thing in his lectures to his class, he tried to make

out that was the first to point out the existence of sodium in
Ithe sun.  think he was quite wrong; for if a man's private

conversations with his friends are to be brought in, there is an end

to all evidence that such a man suggested or pointed out such a

thing. I merely mentioned the circumstance to explain to you
Iwhat Thomson had said to you; think what you have written is

I Iquite right.                thought that Thomson was going too
        should have said that

fast ahead, for my notion at the time was that though a few of the

dark lines might be traced to elementary substances, sodium for

one, probably potassium for another, yet the great bulk of them

were probably due to compound vapours which, like peroxide of

nitrogen and some other known compound gases, have the

character of selective absorption.

    II o

4. confess thought Angstrom's statement somewhat
Iindefinite.  Ihave it not by me now to refer to, and am not
now going to Armagh till Saturday. I look myself on Balfour

Stewart and Kirchhoff as the two who independently of each other

made the important extension of Prevost's Law of Exchanges from
Iwhich the whole follows.
                           am disposed myself to give the priority

to Stewart; for though Kirchhoff was the first to publish the thing

with reference to light, Stewart had already some time before

published it for radiant heat; and we have the strongest reason

for regarding radiant heat and light as identical in nature; heating

and illuminating being merely two different effects of one and the

same kind of radiation, though according to the wave length one

kind of radiation shows itself mainly or perhaps only by the heating

effect, and another mainly by the illuminating effect.

5. Kirchhoff announced potassium in the sun on the strength

of the supposed coincidence in position of the principal red bright

               NATURE OF SOLAR CHROMOSPHERE  77

line of potassium and the dark line A of the solar spectrum.

Afterwards by employing greater dispersion Kirchhoff found that

the bright line of potassium in the red was distinctly less refrangible
than the dark line A, so that the supposed evidence of the existence

of potassium in the sun disappeared. Comparatively recently

Lockyer has obtained evidence of its existence. His researches

led him to perceive in what direction it was to be looked for,

I mean as regards what particular lines, and so, guided by theory,

he has established its existence.

Your statement as to what Kirchhoff thought he had done is

quite correct as to potassium, but he afterwards corrected it.

    6. I imagine that the jets come from the interior of the sun,

and pierce the chromosphere; or rather perhaps that the ordinary
chromosphere is nothing but an assemblage of little jets of a

similar kind.

     7. When the nebulae were supposed to be clusters of stars,
they were imagined to be very distant. But now that the

planetary and certain other nebulae are known to be gaseous,

there is no reason to suppose them on the average more distant

Ithan the stars on the average. No attempt, so far as know, has

been made to determine their annual parallax, which could only

I suppose be done by observing their stellar nuclei when they

have such, as the nebulae themselves would be too vague to

observe with sufficient precision. We have no evidence one way

or other, and we have no reason now to conjecture that they are

more remote than the stars.

   I8. think, according to Lockyer's views at least, the greater

simplicity of the spectra of the nebulae would indicate a higher

temperature than that of the stars.

9. Doppler does not seem to have made even a rough

Icalculation with actual numbers corresponding to any probable

movements of the stars, and don't know whether he would have

been competent to make it; if he were, it seems very strange that

he should not have done so. Doppler's proposal is really absurd

when quantitatively considered in the roughest manner, the change

of refrangibility being utterly inadequate to produce an effect on
the colour which would be sensible. Had the change been such

as to bring the matter within the possibilities of determination

by a change of colour, the method would still have been open
Ito the objection you mention.
                                   have no objection to what you

78 HISTORY OF FLUORESCENCE

say except that the serious entertaining of the objection you name
seems to conceal the inherent absurdity when quantitatively

considered in the roughest way of Doppler's proposal, and to

give him more credit than he deserves for throwing out so crude

an idea.

10. The word "suggested" seems to me merely to imply the

throwing out of a new idea. From the time of Prout at any rate

the idea was not new, and it must be in the minds of all chemists.

It seems to me that "suggested" is giving small praise. I would

suggest "Brodie's researches also naturally fell in with the

supposition that the so-called  complex."
11. If you mean putting common salt or other compound

of sodium on the wick, it requires a stronger heat than that of a

spirit lamp to bring out the lines of sodium, other than the double

line D. If you mean burning metallic sodium, it does not need a
spirit lamp to keep it burning once it is set on fire. I do not

happen to know whether burning sodium would show more than
the double D. The way the other lines are brought out is most

Icommonly by an electric discharge. It is likely enough, but do

not happen to know, that some of them at least might appear if a

compound of sodium, or sodium itself, were introduced into an

oxy-hydrogen jet.
12. It was in 1852 that my first paper [on fluorescence]
Iwas published.
                   recollect now for certain that it was, for a few
Imonths after it came out gave an evening lecture at the meeting

of the British Association in Belfast.

   II had been to a certain extent anticipated, but do not know

that it is necessary to go into this. Herschel had noticed the

extension of the spectrum when the spectrum is thrown on

turmeric paper, but had misinterpreted the result. Ed. Becquerel
had noticed a similar extension when a spectrum is thrown on

certain solar phosphori, and had correctly interpreted the result ;
though he had not perceived the full bearing of his own observation,
and had no notion that the solution of sulphate of quinine with

which he was actually working, and of which he expressly mentions

the "dichroism," owed its blue colour to a phenomenon of the same

nature.

13. Was not one of the great improvements the discovery

by Herschel of the hyposulphites, and of the peculiar properties
of the alkaline hyposulphites with respect to oxide of silver, which

                    DYNAMICS OF ABSORPTION                         79

rendered it possible to fix the image, by removing the portion of

the silver salt that had not been acted on, and so preventing the

paper from being blackened all over ?

   I14. do not know what the more correct views refer to.
If it was any contemporary of Plato's, or even any person for many
centuries afterwards, I doubt if their views, interpreted by the

Ilight of modern knowledge, were more correct than the bold guess

of Plato, as far as can gather its meaning from the word you

quote. Perhaps, however, Plato meant that fire and heat were

substances produced by impact and friction.
   I15.
Ikind) but
Imentioned the thing in some lecture (or notice of some
am by no means the originator of it.          have not
Iworked originally at the subject, and would rather my name
Iwere not mentioned in connexion with it.
                                             cannot say who first
pointed out the thing, but I know that Thomson and Tait have
both worked much and written much about it. If you cannot

find who first showed the weak point, it would be better to say

"as has been pointed out."

     16. Is it not the distance between adjacent molecules ?

I don't see how we can possibly get at the size of the molecules,

I Iexcept as to assigning a superior limit.   do not know on
      17. have not read Sorby's address, and

what evidence he bases the estimate of the number of molecules
Iin a given volume.
                     suppose he refers to the speculations against

reference mark 16.

18. There are two important colouring matters in madder,

alizarin and purpurin. Alizarin is the more valuable. Would

it not be well to say, the principal colouring matter of madder ?

19. "The volumes            spaces." Apropos to what does this

come in ? As regards absorption, what we are concerned with

theoretically is the natural times of vibration of the molecular

structure, or rather what in a complex dynamical system most

nearly answers to the natural times of vibration.

I As I do not know whether you are at High Elms or in London,

  think it safest to send this to Lombard Street.

                            Yours sincerely,

                            G. G. STOKES.

SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, Bart., M.P., F.R.S.

80 STOKES' MAP OF THE ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRUM

                 FROM PROF. W. H. MILLER.

DEAR PROFESSOR STOKES,

           I Imade a great mistake this morning*.  got the prisms
I Iand telescope in 1836, and believe made the observations on

the identity of position of the spirit lines with the solar double

line D in 1837.

                         Very truly yours,

                         W. H. MILLER.

           CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROF. H. E. ROSCOE.

                         OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTER.

                         Feb. 24, 1860.

MY DEAR MR STOKES,

           I am sorry to find that you do not agree with the map
I Iof the spectrum sent
                         do not know how the difference can
IIhave arisen, for certainly copied, as correctly as could, the
Ipencil map you lent me some time ago which too returned
to you after I had copied it.
   If Iyou will allow me to keep your map for a day or two               will

draw the map againf keeping the distances the same so as to

correspond with your last.

   I Ifound no difficulty in recognising the lines as drew them.
I do not know what became of those between N4 and Q, but
I cannot help thinking that they were not contained in the copy

you lent me formerly.

     Have you seen in the last no. of the Annales de Chimie et de
Physique a short note about Kirchhoff s discovery of the probable

cause of the coincidence of the bands of light (produced for instance

by a soda flame) and the dark lines of the spectrum ?
     Bunsen and he are working on the subject one of the greatest

interest.

                    Believe me very truly yours,

                         HENRY E. ROSCOE.

     * March 8, 1854? See Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv, Appendix, p.  372,
where the correspondence with Lord Kelvin on this subject is printed.    and

   t Published in the memoir on photo-chemical intensity by Bunsen

Roscoe, Phil. Trans. 1859. See Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. p. 206.

                 SEN'S AND KIRCHHOFF'S SPECTRUM ANALYSIS                                                                                  81

                                                 March 19, 1860.

    I am sorry to have been so long in forwarding the copy

Iof the Spectral actions for my paper and your map which return.
I could not find time before this.

   INow you will, hope, be able to recognise the lines it is,

however, difficult to draw them well. I hope that the engraver

will not copy my blots and imperfectly ruled lines. The map does

not pretend to be else than one by which to identify the position.
    You said that in the Phil. Trans, for 1859 there is a map,

I have not seen it. Perhaps if you have some copies of that

as well as of your original paper (in 1852) you would be so kind
Ias to give me one.
                     should be very much obliged.
I hear from Bunsen that he has detected Lithium in all the

Potashes he has examined (by his and KirchhofFs new Spectral

method), also Lithium in 20 grms. of sea water. He mixed

Mg, Ba, Sr, Ca, Li, Na, K salts altogether, put some of the

mixture on the point of a pin looked through a telescope and

saw at one glance all the substances present ! This is something

like Qualitative Chemical Analysis !

                                                 Sept. 27, 1860.

   II believe that have not written to thank you for a letter
Iwhich received in Heidelberg from you respecting Bunsen and

Kirchhoff's Paper.

    I am extremely obliged by your kindness in looking over
the Proof Sheets. I translated the paper in a great hurry on

Ithe two last evenings of my stay in England and daresay you

Imay have found many mistakes.                   The sight of the
         saw all the experiments at Heidelberg.

ISolar and superimposed Iron spectrum is one of the most beautiful

and striking things ever saw. All the bright iron lines (perhaps

50 or 100 in the field at once) exactly coinciding with dark lines
in the solar spectrum. They have now found in the Sun's

atmosphere Sodium, Iron, Magnesium (one of Fraunhofer's

       Potassium, Chromium, and Manganese, probably ere this
lines  b),

                    is
                                     is

                                                                                                                                       6
many other bodies are discovered.

Steinheil of Munich now making the instruments, but the

first trial one not yet finished.

       s. B. n.

82 ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRUM

     You of course will have heard that Clifton is our new

IProfessor. We are fortunate to get so good a man and shall

be very glad to have a Physicist near me.

                                            Feb. 6, 1862.

I am about to give three lectures on "Spectrum Analysis'*

at the Royal Institution in Albemarle Street, and in one of these

I must enter into the subject of Solar Chemistry. My aim will

Ibe to express the true history of these discoveries as accurately as

possible, and should feel greatly obliged to you if you would

Ikindly inform me of the facts concerning the part you have taken

in this portion of the subject. Of course have read the letter

you wrote to the Phil. Mag. calling attention to Foucault's

experiment of the production of the absorption sodium lines, but
I can find no other statements made by you on the subject before
Ithat time.
             am induced to ask you for further information

upon the point from a letter in the Feb. Phil. Mag. from Prof.

W. Thomson, in which he speaks of "Stokes's Theory of Solar

Iand Stellar Chemistry" having been taught for 6 to 8 years in his

Classes at Glasgow, and cannot find any references to the Theory

except the letter above referred to.

You are doubtless aware that in 1855 Angstrom expressed

his opinion that the "explanation of the dark lines of the Solar

spectrum involves that of the bright electric metallic lines," and

that "when taken altogether the two spectra present the appearance

of one being the reverse of the other." (Pogg. Ann. Bd. 94, p. 145.)
But he does not express any opinion as to the composition of the

ISolar atmosphere.
        see that Crookes, the Editor of the Chemical News, wishes

to claim for W. Allen Miller the discovery of the power of luminous

gases to absorb light of the same kind as they emit, but I cannot

believe (from the paper as published) that Miller could think of

Iclaiming this point. His sentence on this subject is not only
I

          ?

                           it,

                                              I
vague, but, as read  positively incorrect.

May refer also to your experiments showing the existence

of metallic rays of very high refrangibility which  saw at

Cambridge

HISTORY OF THEORY OF SPECTRUM ANALYSIS                                       83

                                              LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.

                                              Feb. 7, 1862.

DEAR MR ROSCOE,

         IMy share in the history of solar chemistry, look upon

        simply nil for never published anything on the subject,
and man's conversations with his friends are to enter into the
it,

   if is

             a
                 a

                                           ;

                      I

                                          is
history of subject there pretty nearly an end of attaching any

mention or discovery to any individual.

As well as recollect, what passed between Thomson and myself
I

about the lines was something of this nature.  mentioned to him
                                               I

                                                              *.
                                                                        a

                                                                                        6
the repetition by Miller of Cambridge of Fraunhofer's observation

of the coincidence of the dark line D of the solar spectrum with

the bright line D of certain artificial flames, for example spirit

lamp with salted wick. Miller had used such an extended
Ia
                 2

             I
                     I
spectrum that the lines of D were seen widely apart, with
intermediate lines, and had made the observation with the greatest

care, and had found the most perfect coincidence             Thomson

remarked that such a coincidence could not be fortuitous, and

asked me how accounted for it. used the mechanical illustration

of vibrating strings which recently published in the Phil. Mag.                                                                \
in connexion with Foucault's experiment. Knowing that the

bright line D was specially characteristic of soda, and knowing too

what an almost infinitesimal amount suffices to give the bright

line, always, think, connected with soda.                    told Thomson
I
     I

              I

                                     it
                                                 it

                                                I
believed there was vapour of sodium in the sun's atmosphere.

What led me to think was sodium rather than soda, chloride of

sodium, &c. was the knowledge that gases that absorb (so far as my
experience went) yield solutions that absorb in the same general way,
but without the rapid alternations of transparency and opacity.

Now the absorption were due to vapour of chloride of sodium
if

   is

                              I

                                              if

                                                 I

                                                                                           is

                                                                                                                            a
we should expect that chloride of sodium and its solution would
exercise a general absorption of the yellow part of the spectrum,

which not the case. Thomson asked there were any other

instances of the coincidence of bright and dark lines, and referred

to an observation of Brewster's relative to the coincidence of

certain red lines in the spectrum of burning potassium and the

lines of the group a of Fraunhofer.           am nearly sure this in

volume of the Reports of the British Association, being analogous

                 * Cf. supra, p. 80.                         62

84 THEORY OF EEVERSAL OF LINES IN SPECTRUM

I Ito but not identical with Brewster's observation in the Report for

1842, pt. 2, p. 15. (Since wrote this have looked through the
indices of the volumes of the Reports of the British Association

and do not   find it there.) Thomson   with his  usual eagerness said,
" Oh, then,  we must find what metals  produce   bright lines agreeing

I Iin position with the fixed dark lines of the spectrum," or something
to that effect.  was, believe, rather disposed to rein him in as

going too fast, knowing that there were terrestrial lines (seen
when the sun is low) which evidently take their origin in terrestrial

atmospheric absorption, where metals are out of the question, and

thinking it probable that a large number of lines in the solar

spectrum might owe their origin to gaseous absorption of a similar

character in the solar atmosphere. Even now I think it likely

that some of the non-terrestrial lines in the solar spectrum may

Ibe of this character, though after what Bunsen and Kirchhoff have

done think it probable that they are a minority.

The idea of connecting the bright and dark lines by the theory
                                                       I
Iof exchanges had never occurred to me, and                                   was greatly struck
              I                                                                paper of Balfour
                                    it,
                                                                           a
with it when first saw       which was in

Stewart's read before the Royal Society and printed in the

Proceedings,     was wrong in saying lines, for B. Stewart considers

only solids, the spectra of which don't present such abrupt changes.

Stewart's paper was independent of, but a little subsequent to,
Kirchhoff's, though the same idea with reference to radiant heat

occurs in two papers of his printed in the Edin. Phil. Trans, and

much anterior to Kirchhoff's paper. These papers was not
                                                                              I
acquainted with at the time when Stewart's paper on light came
                                                                                               is
before the Royal Society.

We can by no means affirm from the theory of exchanges that

every dark line in the solar spectrum must be capable of reversion.
For may be due to absorption by a compound gas which
I
         it
           it

                      a

                        I

                          I
incapable of existing undecomposed at the temperature requisite

for becoming luminous, or which though not decomposed might

yet have its mode of absorption completely changed, as we know

that even small elevation of temperature sufficient materially

to alter the absorption of light by NO gas.
     As to the mention of the metallic lines in the invisible region,
                                       4

                                                   is

own to feeling a wish that the subject may be novel when
                                                                              it
                                                                                        is

                                                                                         I
bring forward, and yet can't help feeling that that mere

selfishness and that  have no business to keep                                bottled up.

            MECHANISM OF ABSORPTION IN SOLIDS                      85

IWhen are your lectures to be given ? If not for some time

perhaps may draw up a note for the Royal Society for publication
in the Proceedings which would of course set you quite free *.

                                         Yours very truly,

                                         G. G. STOKES.

    P.S. Do you .know anything of Mr C. H. Akin, Ph.D.,

a Hungarian, who studied at Heidelberg and has seen you there ?
He has come to Cambridge for the purpose of study.

            To MR T. L. PHIPSON.

                                         SPRINGFIELD, TIVERTON,
                                                  22 Sept., 1869.

DEAR SIR,

               Absorption bands are certainly not a phenomenon of

interference. In interference there is no loss of light but only
a different distribution of illumination. Thus in the case of
interference mirrors or an interference prism, if we call 1 the
intensity of either stream, if the two streams simply mixed

without interference we should have a uniform intensity of 1 + 1
or 2, but with interference we have a series of bands bright and

dark with intensities 4 and 0. The mean intensity is 2 the same

as before.

    All that we can regard as positively settled as to the nature
of absorption is that the incident vibrations are spent in producing

molecular disturbances. What the nature of these disturbances

a matter of speculation.I is,            don't think that in solids and
        is

                                      ;

                               I
liquids they have anything like the regularity of the vibrations

of a pendulum, and consequently we cannot strictly speak of their
periodic time. In the gaseous forms of matter we have evidence

(in the bright spectral lines) of an approach to this regularity.
   say approach, because the lines are not in general mere lines,

but narrow bands. The same gas incandescent never different,

but in different parts of the spectrum may show what are nearly

    * " On the Long Spectrum of the Electric Light," published in Phil. Trans.
(July 19), 1862 Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. pp. 203237.

86 REGULARITY OF VIBRATIONS EXCITED IN GASES

bright lines and what are bands of very decided breadth. Different
kinds of vibrations can go on simultaneously, and in the case of
bright inerely-lines would produce nearlya pendulum-likeregularity.
To the extent of approximation to which we may speak of narrow
bands as mere lines, to that extent will the corresponding vibrations
be regular, of a definite period, and the periodic time of the light
absorbed will agree with that of the light emitted. But in the
case of those molecular agitations which are not of that regular
character the precise relations between the incident vibrations
absorbed used up and the agitations of the ponderable mole-

Icules thereby produced are not apprehend at present known.
I have some theoretical views on the subject, but they are at

present in an immature state.

                      I am, Dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                                                              G. G. STOKES.

   IP.S. Thank you for the papers which duly received.

     EXPERIMENTS ON OPTICAL GLASSES.

   LETTERS TO REV. W. V. VERNON HARCOURT, F.R.S.

                                              (Selection.)

    (From Obituary Notice of Rev. W. V. V. Harcourt, Roy. Soc.
                  Proc., Vol. 20, 1872. By Prof. Phillips^)

     Accustomed to the use of the gas-furnace, Mr Harcourt turned
it to experiments on transparent compounds of fusion, which
might be made to have refractive indices beyond the ordinary
ranges, combined with scales of dispersion more favourable to
achromaticity. In this he was guided by the trials of Faraday
to prepare glass for optical purposes. Many years since, the writer,
who was often helpful in this way, ground one of the earliest of
the Harcourt glasses into a lens, and found it indeed a highly
refractive clear substance, but too much traversed by striye to be
of practical use.

     When, some years since, Mr Harcourt removed his residence
to the family seat at Nuneham, near Oxford, he constructed
furnaces of a different kind for the carrying on of these experi-
ments, and followed them with the zeal, resolution, and patience
which had always characterized his firm and well-regulated mind.

MR HARCOURT'S EXPERIMENTS TO IMPROVE OPTICAL GLASSES 87

At an age when most men cease from continuous literary and
scientific work, he with failing sight, but perfect memory, was
indefatigable in training an assistant and superintending his work;
making many new combinations with substances untried before,
and now selected for quality of fusion, resistance to atmospheric
vicissitudes, range of refraction and specific action on different
rays of the spectrum. Thus it was hoped finally to acquire glasses
of definite and mutually compensative dispersions, so as to make
perfectly achromatic combinations. After innumerable trials, and
the production of glass of extremely various quality, Mr Harcourt,
continuing his inspection to 'the last, had the satisfaction of
believing that, though he could not remain to witness
                                                   a                              a good
                                                                             it,
result had been assured, and that Professor Stokes, to whom

all the specimens were submitted for scrutiny, would be able to
construct lens of sufficient size to be fairly tried, and thus
    a

crown the long-continued labour with permanent benefit to

science.

    It was hoped that a full account of these experiments might
have been prepared by the author of them, for his strong mind
felt little of the weight of eighty years and overruled the bodily
infirmities of age. But was character of the man never to

cease experimental or literary research till he was satisfied
resolute to contend with difficulties till all were overcome, and
                  it

                               a

                                                                                                                                 ;

too truly a lover of knowledge, with faith in its progress, to be
hasty in publishing views on account of their novelty, which
might be made valuable by proofs of their truth. Prof. Stokes
has already presented to the British Association notice of these
researches*, and to him we must now look for further records ofa

a work to which he has cheerfully contributed a large amount
of valuable aid.

    J.(From Obituary Notice of Sir                 F. VV. Herschel, same vol.,

                  Dr Romney Robinson.}
                  is by

                                  it
    His contributions to optics rank next to his astronomical in
importance and number; but we shall only mention two, which

gave a great impulse to the progress among us of this branch
of physics. The first a remarkable memoir on the aberrations
of compound lenses and object-glasses, which appeared in our
Transactions for 1821. Before                      opticians (at least in this

country) corrected the spherical aberration of their object-glasses
by  empirical rules, and its theory was given in rude and urisym-

metrical forms. By a happy choice of symbols and an elegant

     * Read to the British Association Meeting in Edinburgh, August, 1871. [Math,
and Plnjs. Papers, iv. pp. 339343 also later account of an actual achromatic
telescope made with the new glasses, presented to the British Association at Belfast,

1874, loc. cit. pp. 356, 357 also further tests on glasses, loc. cit. pp. 358360.]
                  ;
                                     ;
                                                a

88 THE PROBLEM OF IMPROVING ACHROMATISM

analysis he presents the theory of aberration in all its generality,
and in as simple a manner as the nature of the question admits.
He gives examples of the application of his theory to the con-
struction of aplanatic doublets, and then to that of object-glasses.

In discussing this he considers the dispersive power as composed
of several terms, of which the first only is taken into account by

opticians, and the rest constitute the irrationality of the spectra.
This defect cannot be removed in a double object-glass unless the
dispersive powers of higher orders are proportional to the first ;
and he recommends that the attention of future inquirers should
be directed to the discovery of such a medium (a result which
there is reason to believe has at last been obtained by the
combined investigation of the late W. Vernon Harcourt and

Professor Stokes).
      The condition which he assumes for correcting the spherical
                            is,
                                                                                                              a
aberration                  that the compound shall be aplanatic for near as

well as remote objects. He tabulates the results for the various

crown and Hint glasses then used in England with completeness

which leaves nothing to be desired. It may be feared, however

(notwithstanding the popular explanation of his method which
he afterwards published in the sixth volume of the Edinburgh
Philosophical Journal}, that this paper has had little influence
on the practice of British workmen, who then and now are far
behind the requirements of the age in the knowledge of geometry.

                                                               CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                       Aug. 1863.
                                                               is
On laying down on paper the deviations for the four omitted
                                                                   6
prisms of which have got the angles, those on No. seemed notif I        7

so bad considering the great waviness of the glass, and No. 29
seemed tolerable "air" (respecting which there some enormous

error) be struck out. So calculated the indices and send the
                                                 I

results. No. 27 was not thus cleared up, and must be re-

measured. In No.            a     have taken the means of and for the
                                                               lv
                              7I                                             2v

superior limit.

I      send also                  table of dispersive powers thus calculated.

    I
take the widest interval of the spectrum for which the observa-

tions can be trusted, and the corresponding interval in the other,

and find the ratio                               referring to the standard. then regard
       (fjL                                                    JI I
                       /JL
                        )

                        -^
                                              ,
                                        ^
-~- x                       OA as sensibly equal to what //,#      A would have
                        OH

       RELATION OF DISPERSIVE POWER TO REFRACTION               89

3 ~been if it could have been observed, and take f^D ~ 1 as the dis-
Hpersive power. The dispersive power estimated as from B to

may be got from this with very little error by multiplying by
       - -or 1
                    = 1 77^ or 1 '078. The greatest error

from irrationality which this would entail (supposing the       ~

were exact) would be in the case of the low dispersive glasses, and
even then would be only about '0003, by which the j*H /*B would

be made too small.

Sir David Brewster remarked long ago that in most cases the

more dispersive of two media is also the more purple-refracting*.

Hence green refracting power does not alone hold out much

prospect of obtaining a substitute for flint glass which shall

compensate crown without leaving a secondary spectrum. We

must enquire whether the medium is more green-refracting than

corresponds to its position in the scale of dispersive power.

   I have tried a large number (not far short of 100, a good deal

more than 50 at any rate) of compensations, chiefly with the better

Iprisms (those which showed the dark lines and a few of the others
which  was able to manage), and almost without exception

brought the prisms out in the same order as that in which

they are arranged by their dispersive powers. No. 24 seemed

rather purple-refracting for its d. power. Nos. 2, 13, 14, 32,

come out not much different from one another, the order appearing

to be

       purple, 14) nearly equal, 13, 32,              , green;
                                     [

but 2 is much lower in refractive power. Hence either 2 is purple

for its d. p., or the group 14, 13, 32 green considering its d. p. A

Munich crown prism was distinctly green to 2 and distinctly
purple to your crowns 16, 18, 19. Your crowns and Nos. 20, 22,

27, 25 were all nearly equal as to greenness. It struck me that

No. 25 might have been expected to be greener than it seemed,

Iconsidering its low d. p.

        send a graphical table of compensations. The result leaves

    * "A treatise on new philosophical instruments."  The results are noted in
HerscheFs "Light," Ency. Metrop.

90 CONTRAST OF ACHROMATIC AND APLANATIC CORRECTIONS

a poor prospect of destroying the secondary spectrum or doing-

Imore than diminishing it. With fluids Dr Blair had a wider

range of dissimilarity at command than is suppose to be had
with glasses.

     Is there anything remarkable in the composition of Nos. 13,
14, 32 ? They seem to be somewhat greener than belongs to
their place in the scale of dispersive powers.

   I must pit your prisms against flint glasses to see if on the

whole they come out more green-refracting for equal dispersive

powers. If so they may be substituted with advantage for flint

glass (provided of course they can be prepared in a homogeneous
state, i.e. free from striae, &c.), though a diminished secondary
spectrum would still remain.

                                          Oct. 1870.

MY DEAR MR HARCOURT,

The correction for achromatism can be effected, so far

as irrationality permits of its being effected at all, by means of

spherical surfaces, and the deviation from the spherical form

if made would not help out the correction. It is the correction

for spherical aberration, not achromatism, which admits of being

made by deviating from the spherical form. Dr Pritchard must
have fallen into some strange confusion on this point if it were

not a mere slip of the tongue.

After making this correction, the question raised in your letter

comes to this Why cannot the correction for spherical aberration

be made by means of spherical surfaces ?
            It can be made (to the lowest order of approxi-
The answerit

              is,
                                                             is

                                                                                                                                           ;
mation at least, to which alone the thing sensible with the ratio

of aperture to focal length to which the defect of irrationality

compels opticians to limit themselves) by spherical surfaces but
in order that should be so made two things are required; first

the ratio of the spheres must be accurately calculated, from data

furnished by accurate observations of refractive indices; and

secondly the surfaces so calculated must be accurately executed,

both as to the truly spherical form of the surfaces, which in the

calculation are deemed to be spherical, and as to the agreement of

the radii of the executed surfaces with the radii assumed as the

result of calculation.

EXTREME ACCURACY REQUIRED IN FIGURING SURFACES 91

Let us see what the first of the two latter requirements

demands. Take the case of an object-glass of 15 inches aperture
Ifand 15 feet focal length.
                                              the rays of any one colour, instead

of being brought to a point, were brought so as to form a minute

caustic surface such that a section perpendicular to the axis was,

Ifor edge rays, a circle of the jj^th inch radius, suppose the

spherical aberration would be sensible when the glass was tested

as to this point. Suppose that the aberration would vanish if

the 4 surfaces were all truly spherical, and exists in consequence

of an error of one of the crown-glass surfaces, such that it deviates

from a sphere in the direction of a prolate or oblate spheroid.
What amount of error is implied in the actual surface ? The

edge rays evidently deviate from their proper direction b} r the

-small                                               '01 inch
         ,  radf^.ocoafl^slmenagllt-hrcircle  = ^lo  x 1T^2~-inchire~s  =  TrrAoo  m  circular

angle

measure. Assuming /A = 1*5 for the crown, this would imply
an angular deviation in the direction of the surface at the edge

of $oW- From this we get by an easy calculation for the distance
between the spheroid and its sphere of curvature, at the edge,

where it is greatest, -J aperture x angle = -1g5- -g^- inch = -^fa or in
round numbers the -g^o^th of an inch. We see with what amazing

accuracy the surfaces must be executed spherical, be they

calculated ever so accurately, and be the executed radii ever

so near the calculated radii, in order that the spherical aberration

Imay be destroyed independently of trial and correction.
As to the first requirement, few                     imagine, if any, of our

English practical opticians possess the requisite mathematical

knowledge. By trial, aided by calculations more or less rough,

they get pretty near the mark, and leave the rest to trial and

correction.

   IAs to the mode of correction, imagine from hints which have

dropped out that most of our practical opticians in making a large

glass, after they have got the spherical aberration moderately

small, and satisfied themselves as to the destruction of chromatic

aberration, correct for the residual spherical aberration by polishing

the glass in zones by trial. This is a bungling process compared
with that which Grubb employs less scientific and incomparably

more difficult.
     Next as to the statement that " Grubb had committed a

serious error in regard to spherical aberration in a glass made,

92 NECESSITY FOR DISTANT TEST OBJECTS

I think, for the Royal Society in consequence of the object by

which he judged his work being at too short a distance."

   I happen to know the circumstance in which I have no doubt

this statement originated. Grubb had been commissioned to

Imake a 12-inch object-glass, but before the work was complete
the order was withdrawn, in consequence,  think, of an object-

glass having been bequeathed to the party ordering, compensation

I presume being made to Grubb in some way or other. He still

has this glass in his hands. Some years ago Howard Grubb, the

son, who was coming over to Cambridge, brought the glass with
him, that it might be tried here, for it happened to be of very

nearly the same focal length as the Northumberland telescope

here, so that the same fittings served for tooth. Before sending

it over they tested it for spherical aberration, using for some

reason (I forget whether it was badness of weather or occupation

of ground) an object at a less distance than this had been used to,

I think only 7 or 8 focal lengths, and made it right for that. On

being tested in Cambridge on stars, the object-glass, though

otherwise good, was found to have a very sensible negative

spherical aberration. The object-glass therefore in which this

defect was noticed was not one which they had turned out of

their hands, but merely hastily corrected for a temporary trial.

It is likely enough that this circumstance made Grubb more

keenly alive to the necessity of attending to the distance of the

test object ; but that now at any rate he is fully alive to it is

proved by the following passage in a letter from him to me dated

Feb. 10, 1870. He is writing with reference to a refracting

telescope ordered for the Royal Society of 15 inches aperture
and 15 feet focal length. " We have had more difficulty about

the spherical aberration, consequent on the day objects being

necessarily at a finite distance. We have two distances of these,

say about 150 and 300 feet. The difference of correction for

the shorter and that for parallel rays is considerable, and even

for the longer distance very sensible." In a later letter he told

me that they had got the correction for spherical aberration so

Icomplete that one could not tell which way the error lay.

       should feel obliged by your informing Dr Pritchard of these

circumstances, because it is not fair that statements based on

imperfect information as to the facts of the case should gain

Icurrency to the detriment of an optician in whom all that have

             EFFECT OF CONSTITUTION ON REFRACTION           93

Iseen leads me to place a very high degree of confidence, as know

Mr Robinson does, who knows him much better, and has besides
Ifar more practical acquaintance with instruments than
                                                            can

pretend to.

             Believe me, Yours sincerely,

                                        G. G. STOKES.

                                           YJth Dec. 1870.

   I IAt last got sunlight to-day and was able to measure the

prisms. I send you the results.
    I had fancied 103 and 104, which are a little milky, were

Imolybdic prisms ; but from the fact of the violet not being
absorbed, and from the magnitude of     C, conclude they are

titanic.

Two of the prisms hardly showed H, partly in consequence

of atmospheric absorption, which much weakens the violet when

the sun is so low as it is at this time of year and the air too some-
Hwhat hazy. The measures, however, for
                                        agree very well with

the others.

The disk and... prism have not yet arrived from Darker.

                                           20*A Jan. 1871.

I found your letter on my return from London to-day. I felt

confident that there could be no mistake about my having taken
I Iup some other prism and measured it when thought
                                                            was
Imeasuring H 107, but looked over all the titanic prisms as to

their indices. Only in three cases was there a chance of agree-

ment even with a very liberal allowance for errors of observation,

and then if the indices roughly agreed, the double deviations did

not, in consequence of the angles differing from one another

I Isufficiently completely to forbid the supposition that it was one
of them had measured.  am confident there is no mistake

about the identification.

   But I don't think the difference between H1Q7 and the

prisms of nearly similar composition inexplicable from the compo-

sition. The most striking difference lies in its great purple

Irefraction. There was introduced into the prism 107 (if under-

  94 SPECIFIC EFFECTS OF ACIDS AND BASES ON REFRACTION

 stand rightly) 2 per cent, of nitre more than into the disk 107+

 making 2 + T9 = 3'9 per cent. (I don't feel quite sure that it

 may not be 2 per cent, into 107 against 1*9 per cent, into 107+,

 Ibut understand it to be 2 + l'9 = 3'9 per cent.) This would

 be equivalent, apart from its influence in keeping up oxidation,
 to 1'82 of ANHYDROUS potash. Now acids, especially sulphuric
 and phosphoric, are remarkable for green refraction. In a table
 of the order of sequence of 89 substances given by Brewster and
 quoted by Herschel (Encyc. Metrop., art. Light, 443) sulphuric
 acid stands at the head of the list, phosphoric acid second, water
 6th, crown-glass 28th, flint-glass 40th. The anhydrous acids

Iwould probably be still more remarkable for green refraction.
      On the other hand found that solutions of salts, on being
 compared with the corresponding acids mixed with water, were

 strongly purple-refracting, the strengths being adjusted so as to
 give the same total dispersion in hollow prisms of 45. The
 difference consists in the substitution of base for water.

      Hence, putting the two things together, it is probable that
 anhydrous potash would be very strongly purple-refracting to
anhydrous phosphoric acid. A phosphoric glass would be inter-
 mediate, and hence the introduction of anhydrous base (actually
introduced in the shape of nitre) would tend to purple
 refraction.

      But furthermore the long-continued firing may have acted
by expelling water, which adheres so obstinately to phosphoric
acid. The analyses of glacial acetic acid quoted by Gmelin are
extremely discrepant. While theory requires 11 '19 per cent.
water, H. Rose got 7'3 to 9'48, Peligot 12-55, Dulong 17'08,
Berthollet about 25. Peligot's was heated to redness. Rose's
was heated so much as to leave a mixture of metaphosphoric
acid and anhydrous acid. The long firing of HW*7 may have
expelled water, which possibly may have raised the purple re-
fraction more than corresponds to the elimination of the dispersion.

     The condition of stability of a glass requires the acid and
base to be adjusted within very close limits, and so prevents
the green refraction or purple refraction due to an excess of acid

I Ior base from being much visible. Yet long ago thought per-

ceived its effect in the case of the antimony prisms. The earlier
cases were yellow, and unstable from excess of alkali, and these
showed purple refraction ; but when by the addition of a little

          PREDICTION OF EEFRACTIVE QUALITY                    95

more acid they were got colourless and stable, the purple refraction

disappeared. And the most determinate^ purple- refracting of the
molybdic prisms seemed to me to be the early brownish ones,
which were unstable from excess of alkali.

                                             2lst Jan. 1871.

I ISince
          finished my letter this morning    have calculated

from Fraunhofer's indices the place of water (as to green or purple

Irefraction) in the crown-flint series, and find it, as found it

before, a little greener refracting than corresponds to its place.
IAccording to a certain graphical construction which
                                                      have

employed, if the places of glasses be laid down on a plane, and
if the points representing two glasses be joined by a straight line,

the points of that line will represent, as experiment shows, the

places of glasses of intermediate composition. If, in the figure,

C, F represent the places of crown and flint-glass, and downwards

represent the side of green refraction, the place of water may

be represented by such a point as TF, and that of a glass such
as H1Q8 by a point such as H. Join WH, and produce it on the

side H. The place of a glass made of HW8 with the addition
of a little water would be represented by a point on the line HW

near H towards W, and the place of a glass such as HIOS with

water abstracted would be represented by a point such as h in
WH produced. The glass h would be more determinately purple-
refracting than H.

          Purple-refracting.

                                          C  F
          W

          Green-refrac ting .
I Ifeel pretty confident that both causes
                                             have suggested,

increase of alkali and diminution of water, would tend to purple

refraction, though I should not have supposed beforehand that

Isuch small changes would have made so much difference.

     P.S. will send you back the disk, for an examination of
          it it

              is
                                                                                                     it,
now that  polished below, might throw light on the cause of

the striae shows near the middle.

96 ANOMALOUS INFLUENCE OF NITRE

                                           Vlih Feb. 1871.

II got a little sunlight to-day, and finished the indices of
#109112.  send you the results.

     The 1'9 per cent, of nitre is found to have a considerable effect

in #111, and little effect, indeed if anything apparently rather

a reverse effect, in #105. The additional 2 per cent, of nitre in

#107 and 112 seems to have had but little additional effect

beyond the 1'9 per cent, in #111.
I IThese results puzzled me at first, but think see how they
Imay be accounted for.
                         suspect that it requires very sharp

heating to decompose the nitre further than to a nitrite ; and that

while anhydrous potash tends strongly to increased dispersion

and purple refraction, nitrite of potash tends slightly the other

way, the increased dispersion and purple refraction due to the

KO being rather more than neutralized by the diminished dis-
Ipersion and the green refraction due to the NO 3 .
                                                     suspect that

in #105 the heating after the addition of the nitre was sufficient

only to convert the nitrate into a nitrite, while in #111 (= 107+)
the nitrite was decomposed ; and that the additional 2 per cent, of

nitre introduced into #107 and 112 remained in great measure

a nitrite of potash.

This view was 1 believe suggested to me by speculating on the
Icause of the ultramarine colour of #105.
                                           thought at first

it might possibly indicate a slight reduction of the titanic acid,
but in heating a strip from the waste end of #112, which Darker

sent me, on platinum wire before the blowpipe in the reducing

Iflame got only the amethystine tint, nor did the addition of

phosphoric acid enable me to get the ultramarine. The colour

of #105 made me think of the colour of the nearly spent acid

in a Grove's cell. The nitrite theory seems to me very probable,

though I have much less confidence in the colour of #105 being

due to a nitrite.

   I should be glad to know if the circumstances of the preparation

Iaccord with my supposition.
         hope to hear that you are recovered or recovering from the

Iillness you mentioned.
RS. Feb. 28.             may as well mention that the disk 107+

contained a few crystals in stellate groups of 3 or 4 sharp crystals.
These were not found in #107, but were pretty numerous in

            CONDITIONS FOR STABILITY OF GLASS                  97

7/112. The glass immediately surrounding them was less re-
fractive than the general glass, but they had no tails, whence

I conclude that they were formed when the glass was too pasty

to allow of currents of convection. The few crystals in the disk

were no sensible detriment to the soundness of the glass.

                                              28*A Feb. 1871.

I should rather prefer the lower numbers of #104 to the

higher of #111 112 for another disk. According to my measures,
the irrationality would be a little over-corrected with 51 11, and
Hillbesides, the stability of the glass has not yet been tested. It is
possible there may be too much alkali in       for stability,

though as yet the glass has shown no sign of tarnish.

   I thought it very likely the bluish colour of #105 might

be due to some impurity. Whether it was the colour that

suggested the explanation of the difference between #105 and

#111 which I gave in my letter posted this morning I don't
recollect for certain. I rather think it was the other way, that
having thought of the explanation I was led to connect the colour

Iwith that of the fluid in a Grove's cell. Be that as it may, felt
Ithat there were several improbabilities in the way of supposing

the colour due to a nitrite; but what pick up in Gmelin as

to the decomposition of nitre by heat leads me to think it not

improbable that the difference between #105 and #111 as to

TO- and 6 may have been due to an imperfect decomposition of

nitrite of potash or magnesia in the former.

              To MR W. P. HORN.

                                              25th May, 1872.

MY DEAR SIR,

            I am not sure whether the glass experiments you propose

are intended (1) to fill up the slight desideratum still remaining in
IMr Harcourt's researches, or (2) as an independent research stand-
ing in your own name.       will therefore answer on the two sup-

positions.

(1) As Mr A. Harcourt has undertaken to work it out, or
ifat least to try, it would be proper to leave it in his hands he
Iwishes to go on with it.   rather imagine, however, he would be

glad to be relieved of it.

s. B. ii.                                      7

98 PROPOSED RESEARCH ON SILICIC GLASS

   The late Mr Harcourt's researches might very well be published
as they stand. But if this one point could be cleared up it would
be so much the better. The point is to ascertain, if possible by
                      if a silicic
direct   experiment,                glass containing   8 or 10 /                of
titanic   acid would   prove what                      -refracting,             as
                                     I called pur pie

the phosphatic glasses containing titanium did*. This would

require us to make a silicic glass with titanic acid, good enough
to show, when cut, the principal dark lines of the solar spectrum.

I fear this would be a difficult matter on account of the pasty
character of silicic glasses. I don't think it would be worth while

                                    but         could be done with a
to spend much trouble overit

                             it,                       need not

                                     if

                                            it
moderate amount of trouble would be worth doing.       I
                                                             I
say that should be ready to examine the prism or prisms, and
         I

in drawing up         full account of Mr Harcourt's researches to
               a
acknowledge fully your completion of the work. In any case
                 I
I  should mention the share you had in carrying out the researches

under Mr Harcourt's direction.                  shall still be ready

   If(2) you prefer to work independently
                       if

                                        is I
to measure prisms for you the number not too great.                             am

assuming that Mr A. Harcourt does not wish to work the thing

out. In that case should close my account as the researches

now stand, and what you might add could stand as an independent

paper in your own name. As the researches are published, though

as yet in abstract only, conceive that any member of the public
                       it I

                            is

                                     if
                                              it
                                               if

                                               I
may take the matter up, though the parties who first engaged

in were known to be going on with courtesy would indicate
I it
that     should be left in their hands. But cannot do more
     it
unless someone supplies the glasses, and Mr A. Harcourt likesit

to close the researchI      closed as far as the original parties

are concerned, and then you as a member of the public could take

   up.

     P.S. May 28. Before posting the above received a letter

from Mr Edward Harcourt, who told me what he had written
                       is

                                       it

                                      I
                                             aI

                                                        if

                                                             I
to you.       think there a substantial agreement in what had

written with what he wrote to you, only don't think that he and

   had quite the same idea of what was that you contemplated

doing. It never entered my head to suppose that we closed the

research at the present point, and you were to work out in your

own book with my assistance the point as to titano-silicic glass,

   * Answered in the negative, Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. p. 357 (1875).

.DECISION    BETWEEN THEORIES OF DOUBLE  REFRACTION         99

the results would not be published until after the full account of
Mr Harcourt's researches had appeared. And on the alternative

supposition as to your possible intentions, namely that you con-
templated working out this point to be included in the research,
that of course depended on Mr A. Harcourt's being willing to
hand over the research to you.

     As to the use of such glasses as (among other objects) we were

aiming at, see Sir J. Herschel on Light, art. 477, in the Encyclo-

pedia Metropolitana.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH LORD RAYLEIGH.

DEAR PROF. STOKES,  TERLING PLACE, WITHAM,
                                           March 7 [1871].

May I remind you of your promise and ask you to

Isend me any of your mathematical or physical papers that you
can spare ?  have the one on communication of vibration to a

gas in the Phil. Mag. I have sent my paper on Resonance back

Ito the R. S. The additions that have made are not long, and
Iso thought it unnecessary to send it to you.

                    I am, Yours very truly,

                    JOHN W. STRUTT.

                    ATHENAEUM CLUB, LONDON,
                             23rd March, 1871.

MY DEAR MR STRUTT,

               Prof. Maxwell called my attention a day or two ago to

Iyour paper on double refraction in No. 276 of the Phil. Mag.
   have just been reading it.
    In a paper of mine on some cases of fluid motion read before

the Cambridge Philosophical Society and published in the Trans-

actions (I should guess about 1843, but the work is not in this

IClub), obtained an expression for the equivalent inertia of an

72 Iincompressible fluid moving relatively to a solid (which

100 PHOTOGRAPHY OF GRATINGS

supposed symmetrical with respect to 3 rectangular planes) under

the form            M=M l COS 2 + Mz COS 2 + J/o COS -x/r,
where
                    are the angles made with the principal axes by the
        6,                           (f)
                                   saw at the time that this would lead2
                </>,
                                                            it
               ^
                                                                       *.
                        I
direction of vibration.                                  I

to a theory of double refraction, differing from Fresnel's in having

reciprocals of velocities in place of velocities themselves. But

having calculated the velocity at 45 to the axis in Iceland spar,

found to differ from that given by Huyghens' construction
I

              a it
by a quantity large enough to deter me from publishing the result

without careful scrutiny of the observations of Wollaston and

Malus to see whether such an error could be tolerated                      had

always a hankering after this theory, and developed for myself

much as you have done, and even investigated the form of the

wave surface. After my experiments on diffraction came out
Rankine published in the Phil. Mag. a similar theory. About

four ears ago carried out the suggestion in my Report for
37

         I

                                a
examination by prismatic refraction on a crystal of Iceland spar,

which was cut to my order so as to permit of examination in

directions lying within range including an inclination of 90 and

another including an inclination of 45 to the axis. The result

was perfectly decisive. The difference           inertia theory must be
                                     I
                                            is
                                             of
rejected, and Huyghens construction adhered to. The difference

between the results of the two theories something like 100 times

the probable errors of observation.  ought to have published the

results before this  (*.

                                          CAMBRIDGE,
                                                    24th May, 1872.

have just read your paper on gratings forwarded to me by
II I I
Mr Spottiswoode.
           it,
am glad to find you are so far recovered as to be able to workit
                         is
at these things again.

will take charge of the paper for the Proceedings.

am not sure whether you have seen a short paper by Bridge

in the Phil. Mag. for Oct. 1855 (Vol. x,         p.                  You do not
                                                                        not for the
                                                          it

                                                                   is
                                                 251).

refer to but                 hardly requisite you should; as

     * See Report on Double Refraction, 1862, Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. p. 182.
           brief statement was published as above, Roy. Soc. Proc. June 1872 Math,

and Phys. Papers, vol. iv. p. 336.
t                                                                      :

    A

          PLANE OF POLARISATION IN DIFFRACTION                                          101

idea of using photography for reducing apertures for diffraction
experiments that you send in your paper, but for the actual
carrying out of the idea in the case of such delicate objects, which
is a very different matter.

                     PORT BALLANTRAE, BUSH MILLS, IRELAND,
                                                                    10th August, 1872.

I was a good deal hurried in leaving home in consequence
of an unexpected interruption the day before, but I did not like
Ito go without looking out for my papers so long promised.
                                                                                        got
IImost of them, but think have still some copies of one or two
Imore. The principal ones, so far as recollect, are (1) On the

change of refrangibility of light, No. 1, (2) On the steady motion
of incompressible fluids, (3) On some cases of fluid motion, (4)

Supplement to (3), (5) On the total intensity of interfering light,

I(6) On attractions  and  on Clairaut's theorem.    Of some of them
                     are                            Trans., (2) (3) (4)
   know my copies         out, (1) is in the Phil.

in the Cambridge Transactions, (5) in the Edinburgh Transactions,

(6) in the Cambridge (or Cambridge and Dublin) Mathematical
Journal.
I was in a great hurry in leaving and had not time to write

your name in the papers, nor do more than give my servant

hurried directions about sending them by book- post or rail. Please

to send me a line to let me know if they have arrived, that if not

I may make enquiries. Should you have written already your

letter will be forwarded from Cambridge.

   IP.S. was forgetting to write a few words about diffraction

and its bearing on the direction of the vibrations in polarized
Ilight.
          too think that one of the strongest arguments is that

derived from the polarization of light by reflection from excessively

fine particles. 1 mentioned this as an argument in my paper

in the Phil. Trans, for 1852 *. The passage can readily be found
Ifrom the alphabetical index at the end of the paper.
                                                       think

you asked a question about the result obtained by gratings f. You

have got my original paper. My experiments were repeated by

Holtzmann, who at first worked with glass-gratings and seemed

    * The memoir on " Change of Refrangibility of Light," 183 : Math, and Phys.

Papers, vol. iii. p. 361, with footnote added in 1901.

    t See Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. ii. (addition made in 1883), p. 327.

102 DIRECTION OF PLANE OF POLARISATION

to obtain my results, but found irregularities in his experiments

which induced him to have recourse to smoke-gratings. With

them he obtained results which led him to the conclusion that the

vibrations were in the plane of polarization. F. Eisenlohr investi-

Igated the dynamics of the problem, but in a way which never

could assent to. Finally Lorenz investigated the question both

mathematically and experimentally.  Mathematically Lorenz
I Iobtained the same formula that
                                    had given, though       don't

think his method quite so complete. Experimentally he com-

pletely verified my results. He showed that in using smoke-

gratings erroneous results were obtained unless certain precautions

Iwere observed. Lorenz's work seems to have settled the question,

and had not thought of going on with the investigation. It is

satisfactory that the results obtained from gratings and from fine

particles are in perfect accordance, and conspire to show that the

vibrations are perpendicular to the plane of polarization.

                     LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                    24*A May, 1877.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

            IOn returning from calling to-day found the copy of
Iyour book on Sound which you were so kind as to send me. first
Idipped into it as cut the pages, but of course a book of the kind
will require study, which I have not time to give it at present

on account of my lectures which however are now nearly over.

I IMeanwhile pray accept my best thanks for your interesting book.
         was reminded by seeing a series gave which you refer to,
Ithat
       neglected to send out at the proper time my copies of

a later paper on the same subject. As some of the formulae of the

other are here given in a more general shape, I take the liberty

of sending you a copy which possibly might be convenient to

refer to.

                     4 CARLTON GARDENS, S.W.
                                                   June 2/77.

DEAR PROF. STOKES,

I In consequence of our conversation the other evening
   have been looking at your paper " On a difficulty in the theory

of Sound," Phil Mag. Nov. 1848. The latter half of the paper

         PROPAGATION OF A DISCONTINUITY IN ELASTIC FLUID 103

Iappears to me to be liable to an objection, as to which (if you

have time to look at the matter) should be glad to hear your
opinion *.

By impressing a suitable velocity on all the fluid the surface
of separation at A may be reduced to rest. When this is done,

let the velocities and densities on the two sides be u, p,
                                                                                                   . u',
Then by continuity                  up u'p.                                                             p'.

The momentum leaving slice including         A   in unit time = pu u',
                           2a
pp'momentum entering = pu .                       u).
   Thus                    =a  2     p) = pu(u'

                                 (p

   From these two equations

This, think,  your argument, and you infer that the motion
is

 II
                        is is
                                     is
                                                                    2
                                                                                2
                                                                                                2

                                           I,
   possible. But the energy condition imposes on u and
                                                                                                   I
different relation, viz.                                                                                  u'
                                                                                                               a
                          -uu = 2a log

so that energy lost or gained at the surface of separation A.

    It would appear therefore that on the hypotheses made, no

discontinuous change possible.
        have put the matter very shortly, but dare say what have

said will be intelligible to you.

                                                 CAMBRIDGE,
                                                         5th June, 1877.

   DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

         Thank you for pointing out the objection to the

queer kind of motion contemplated in the paper you refer to.
                    I

Sir W. Thomson pointed the same out to me many years ago, and

I  should have mentioned   it        had had occasion to write anything

                             iIf

bearing on the subject, or without that, my paper had attractedif,

    * In the reprint, Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. ii. 1883, the correction                        is  made
in an explanatory note on p. 55.

104 GASEOUS VISCOSITY AS DETERMINED BY PENDULUMS

attention. It seemed, however, hardly worth while to write a

criticism on a passage in a paper which was buried among other

Iscientific antiquities.    wrote somewhat doubtfully about the
     P.S. You will observe

possibility of the queer motion.

                                     TERLING PLACE,

DEAR PROF. STOKES,                               Dec. 29/79.

ISome time since you asked me whether could offer

any suggestion as to the cause of the discrepancy between the

value of the coefficient of friction calculated by you from Baily's

pendulum experiments and that obtained by Maxwell and others

more directly. In Ruhlmann's Handbuch der Mechanischen

Wdrmetheorie, an explanation is put forward on the ground that
Baily's results do not really give the whole effect of the air, since
the vacuum that he used would still contain gas enough to

produce a considerable effect. It would seem that the influence

of the confinement, small at ordinary pressures, would become

important in vacua, and that a residual effect might be produced
nearly constant in ordinary vacua, and only to be got rid of by

an extreme rarefaction, such as is even now beyond our powers

Ito produce. have not examined the matter closely, but thinking
Ithere may be something in this view have thought it worth

while to call your attention to it.

                                     CAMBRIDGE,

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,                  2 December, 1880.

I am much obliged to you for calling my attention

to Ruhlmann's explanation of the discrepancy between Maxwell's

determination of the coefficient of viscosity and my own. What

I Ihe suggests had long ago presented itself to my own mind, but
  still felt great difficulty, as will explain *.
   ISince it appears from the molecular theory of gases that it is
what called mu my machine has not got Greek type and not

what I called mu', that is constant when the pressure changes,

the gas must become, in regard to its own motion, more and more

viscous as it gets rarer. If a sphere were swinging in free air,

    * See letter to Gen. J. T. Walker, E.E., of date April 1874, in Indian Trigo-

nometrical Survey Memoirs, vol. v. p. [87], reprinted infra.

          CORRECTION FOR VISCOSITY IN RAREFIED GAS                  105

as the viscosity increased the portion of air (estimated by volume)
which we may suppose moving with the ball goes on increasing.

But most of my reductions were those of Baily's experiments.

Now Baily used a vacuum chamber only 3 inches diameter.

Hence when the viscosity became at all considerable the motion

the air would tend to take would be prevented by the walls of the
          As the rarefaction increases indefinitely I call it
chamber.
Iindefinitely, though suppose that we do not go to those extreme

degrees of rarefaction that Crookes has been working with we

tend towards a state of things in which the inertia of the air may

be neglected, so far at least as its own motion is concerned, and

its instantaneous motion may be deemed to depend simply on

that of the pendulum. Hence ultimately the effect of friction

or viscosity would tend, as to its principal term at least, to fall

wholly on the arc and not at all on the time. Therefore if this

extreme limit were practically reached or very nearly reached, the

effect of viscosity on the time at high exhaustions would be very

small, as I supposed it very small, though for a totally different

reason, namely, not that the viscosity itself considered in relation

to the pendulum, not the gas, was small in other words that the

was small as            had supposed, but that the effect of the
fj,I

            if

                     I
viscosity, which at full pressure lay partly on the arc and partly on

the time, came to fall on the arc alone. Therefore my coefficient

ought not to be very much out.

But the viscosity at the greatest exhaustion used, which

think ran about to an inch of mercury, was not so small as

to throw the effect practically on to the arc, then no doubt my

coefficient would be too small, the best coefficient, that  is is,  got

from the totality of the experiments. But what puzzles me how

to account for the wonderful consistency of the experiments when

compared with theory. For they embrace forms and dimensions

of the greatest diversity.

No doubt the most satisfactory way would be to examine the

thing mathematically and see what would lead to. This have
                                   it            is
not at present done.
                                      I it         aI I
          I                 see how to do for the case of a cylinder
              I                                               it
within a coaxal cylindrical case, though could not have done

at the time when wrote my paper on pendulums. But have

not time at present to work    it  out. And the case of sphere

within a cylindrical case would present enormous difficulties. The

case of sphere within concentric spherical case     given in
a                           a

106 DECREMENT OF OSCILLATION IN RAREFIED GASES

my paper, so that for this it would be a question of numerical

reduction.

   ISo the puzzle mentioned to you, I think, as we were walking

in St James's Park, still remains to me, namely how to account

for the wonderful agreement between theory and observation
Iif the coefficient be, as suppose it
         I                             very greatly too small
             I

                           I

                                                                             yu,

                                                                     is,

                                                        if

                                                                        it
                                                                                                                                                                  '?].
                                                                                                                     *.
Wishing you a Happy New Year and satisfaction in your new

work-f-, remain, yours sincerely,

                                       TERLING PLACE,
                                              Jan. 7/80 [81

DEAR PROF. STOKES,

                     think when was writing to you had escaped my

mind that your calculation of was based upon the time and not

upon the arc. It would be a good thing you could carry out

the calculation you suggest, though as you explain the removal of

the difficulty does not seem very probable.

    With thanks for your good wishes, yours sincerely,

                                       CARLTON GARDENS, S.W.
                               I
                                                        4,Feb. 1/86.

                                                         is

                                                        it
Many thanks for your letter which clears up the question as

far as relates to the sphere.     had in my mind rather the case of

cylinder vibrating torsionally without displacement of centre
a
      ain a coaxal cylinder envelope. Here there nothing (except the

envelope) to prevent the whole fluid moving with the cylinder

as solid body without dissipation, and so would seem that

there can be no finite limit to log. dec. as the fluid rarefies inde-

pendently of envelope.

On Thursday you can tell me whether you agree to this.
         a

                 J
     * See further discussion in note appended to the reprint of the paper ona
Pendulums, Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iii. (1901), pp. 137141. On the absence
of inertia effect cf. the Supplement to Crookes' memoir on viscosity of rarefied gases,Jt
Phil. Trans. Feb. 17, 1881; Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. pp. 100116.

        The Cavendish Professorship of Experimental Physics at Cambridge, in succes-

sion to Maxwell.
        At the Royal Society; Prof. Stokes became President and Lord Rayleigh

Secretary in 1885.

       CLEARANCE OF DUST OVER A HEATED WIRE                                 107

                                                                                                              Feb. 25/82.

     DEAR PROF. STOKES,

           I have had the magnetic moment of a chance bar of

steel, comparable with a pendulum rod, taken. The length was

86 centims., and the magnetic moment in C.G.S. measure 107. If

we suppose all the magnetism at the ends the strength of the
poles will be T25 c.G.s.

     Hitting the bar in a vertical position did not make much

difference.

   I hope that this may help you to say whether a steel rod

is inadmissible or not for the pendulum rod of the proposed
clock. Yours very truly,

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,              CAMBRIDGE,
                                           9 Dec., 1882.

       In reading over your paper on the dark plane *, it

occurred to me, in considering the experiments you describe, that

the probable cause was to be sought iri a tendency in the motes to

get from places of stronger to places of weaker gliding. To fix

ideas, suppose fluid to be moving in planes perpendicular to the

axis of a?, the direction of motion being parallel to the axis of z,

and w being a function of x. Then dw/dx measures the rate of

gliding. Suppose this to diminish, numerically, or without regard

to sign, as x increases. Then a mote would occasion less dis-

turbance of the motion of the fluid if it were moved so as to

increase its x, and more disturbance if its x were diminished.

That being the case, it seems to me very likely but I have not

at present gone further into this matter that there would be a

tendency for the mote to be moved outwards, to a place, that
                                                                a
where                         would occasion less disturbance*!*. Now when;
a      were
                                                                               is,
         if
            it
                          it
fluid ascends past an obstacle, the gliding very strong close
                              is

                                  I

                                                          a

                                                            is
to the surface of the obstacle.  can imagine therefore that in

* " On the Dark Plane which   formed over heated wire in dusty air," Roy.

Soc. Proc. xxxiv. 1882, pp. 414418; reprinted in Scientific Papers, vol. ii. 1900,
pp. 151 154, with an added note, " It seems clear that gravitation and movement

from hot to cold, somewhat as in Crookes' radiometer, are both concerned."

t  Compare generally Korteweg's theorem of minimum dissipation of energy in

steady motion, Phil. Mag. 1883, extended by Rayleigh, Phil. Mag. 1893 Lamb's

Hydrodynamics (1895), 297.

108 EXTRUSION OF MOTES BY ACTION OF VISCOSITY

this way a film of fluid near the surface of the obstacle might get
purged of motes, which would get into a stratum a little further

from the solid.

Postscript. ROYAL SOCIETY, Dec. \0th.

I called at your house yesterday on my way to the 4.30 train,

I Iand found you had gone to London and were going to Florence.
   take for granted, therefore, that may send the paper to the

press at once ; any small addition which you might feel disposed

to make in consequence of the remark of the referee a remark
he himself thought hardly worth making as the quantity it related

to was so very minute could be inserted in the proof.

IDid you mention Florence to the physician you consulted
in London, or merely mention Italy generally?          have heard

that the climate of Florence is very trying in the winter, such

Iexcessively cold winds come down from the mountains. However,

in such weather suppose you would be careful to keep indoors.

    I think the purgation from motes of places of intense shearing

in a gas is analogous to the purgation from sand of the ventral

portions of a vibrating plate ; that is to say, that in both cases

alike you must call in the doctrine of chances. I don't think that

under the circumstances centrifugal force would account for it.

Again, if the mote were perfectly regular and the motion of the

fluid regular and (though interfered with by the mote) stable
suppose the uninterrupted motion of the fluid in strata per-

pendicular to Ox and moving parallel to Oz, and the mote spherical

in such a case the supposition that there might be an outward

force on the mote depending on the 1st power of the velocity,

is negatived by the consideration that it ought in that case to

change sign with the velocity ; whereas from S3 7mmetry it must

remain the same.

                                                                                        CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                                                             28 December, 1882.

     DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

           I was at first inclined to put a note to your paper, in
Icase it should be agreeable to you that should, to put in an ex-
Iplanation which threw out vivd voce at the meeting, and which

commended itself to me. It was that near the surface there is

        SURFACE EDDIES AT A BOUNDARY IN FLUID                                                                 109

a very strong shearing action when air flows past an obstacle, and

that as motes interfere with the regularity of the motion they

get rolled over, and wriggle about a little in this stratum of

strong shearing, until by accident they get out of when they
                                                                                            it,
are merely carried with the fluid without disturbing                                           a              and so

                                                                                                 it,
remain there, just as sand remains on the nodal lines of vibrating

plate.

But on further looking into                                                appeared to me that there
               it
                              it

                                      it
                                          it
were difficulties in the way of this explanation, at least in the

form in which       first presented itself to me, for on making

the usual suppositions as to the condition at the surface, and

appealing to the formulae, appears that there no such diminu-
                                                                                            is

                                                                                                           a
tion of shearing in passing from close to the surface to moderate

way from it.

Nevertheless        am disposed to think that the leading idea
               I

                     is

                                                                        ;
of the explanation  the right one only the conditions at the

surface are riot those commonly taken. When viscosity taken
                                                                                            is
into account, we commonly assume that there                                                            is, is
                                                                                                                 is
                                                                                            no relative

motion of the solid and the fluid at the surface, that                                                        that
Pthe relative motion at a point in the fluid decreases indefinitely
as P approaches indefinitely to the surface, and that the gliding

regular, the shearing being finite at the surface, and changing

continuously as you go inwards into the fluid.
     But am disposed now to think that even in such slow
is
   a

        I

                                      is

                              I
                                                                            a
motions as those that you have been experimenting on there

        narrow film which the seat of great number of very little

eddies, the regular motion which mentioned in the first instance

being of an unstable character in the immediate neighbourhood

of the solid, and that the motes get expelled from this narrow

stratum of eddies. The eddies refer to suppose to be due
I
                              I

                                                                    a

                                       I

                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                   is
to the viscosity, and not to involve any centrifugal force that

sensible in such experiments as yours.

        have abstained from putting in note about this, because

the existence of such a narrow stratum of eddies                                            at present

only conjectural.

     Possibly this may throw some light on what has long been
a mystery to me namely, how got such wonderful agreement
between theory and observation as to the effect of the motion of

  viscous fluid on the time of vibration of a pendulum, or rather,
of pendulums of a great variety of forms, and yet the coefficient of
a

                                             ;

                             I

                                                                                         a

110 DISTURBANCE ANALYSED AT A WAVE-FRONT

Iviscosity obtained is much smaller than results from the experi-

ments of Maxwell or of Meyer*.

    IPerhaps when we get to a sunnier season may make some

experiments in smoky air to see whether a smokeless film is formed
where the air glides over the surface of a body vibrating as a

pendulum.

   I cannot think that the purgation of the air from motes in

your experiments can have been due to centrifugal force. Indeed
your own experiment with the rotating cylinder seems to disprove

it. I think you have gone in the right direction when you say,

"Indeed it would almost seem as if this kind of contact were

Isufficient to purify the air without the aid of centrifugal force."
   should be disposed to substitute " altogether " for " almost."
   IYou are doubtless enjoying the sunny south, though at this
season suppose that even at Florence there are cloudy days now

I Iand then, and cold winds too, which you will have to be cautious

about. heard from your servant when went to get your address
that you were much better since your arrival.

                    TERLING PLACE,

                    Nov. 15/86.

DEAR PROF. STOKES,

I want to have a talk with you some time about
Isecondary waves in Dynamical Theory of Diffraction.
                                                      have never

understood your investigation very well, as it seemed to me that

the law you find is only one of a probably infinite number of laws

which in a mathematical sense might be considered to be solutions.

Perhaps I can explain best from Sound. The motion in front

of any plane parallel to wave front may be supposed to have

its origin at that plane. The motion of the plane as a whole is

one of vibration perpendicular to itself, and we may analyse this

as due to a number of parts in each of which a small area moves

as the whole plane does, while the remainder is at rest. In this

case the secondary wave is equally intense in all directions, thus

Idiffering from what you give.

     My difficulty turns, think, on your meaning when you say
that you suppose the unperforated parts merely to stop the light.

     * See Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iii. (1901), added footnote, pp. 76-7, and
Appendix pp. 137 141, referred to supra, p. 106, for explanations on this subject.

   MATHEMATICAL INDETERMINACY OF THE PROBLEM                           111

The result as regards the secondary wave appears to me to depend
on how the stoppage is effected. What for instance would be

Ithe machinery for stopping in the case of Sound? Please do

not trouble yourself to write an answer, but should like to

know your views on this point.

                                                        CAMBRIDGE,

                                                        20 Nov. 1886.

   DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

           I have satisfied myself that my method is quite right.

It is a perfectly legitimate mode of superposition. It is merely

counting your sheep as they go through the gate instead of as

Ithey stand in the field ready to go through.

    The legitimacy will, think, be seen at once if you first think

of a series of independent pulses, say, to fix ideas, separated by

intervals which are small compared with the breadth of a pulse,

and then suppose the pulses indefinitely close and numerous, the

function expressing the disturbance being arbitrary.                   is,

   If the problem be regarded from my point of view, that

taking the medium as whole, and enquiring what, emanating
   a

from each element of the surface of a front of a wave, will replace

the actual motion, you cannot substitute a force acting at the

element, and regard that as the source of disturbance. For the

forces required to act as sources for the motion in front and those

required to act as sinks to the motion in the rear are equal in

magnitude but opposite in sign. You may think only of the

disturbance in the front, and regard  as produced by a force
                                      it

                                                     ;
acting all over the surface at which the disturbance takes place,
thus endowing the force with an ideal entity but in doing so you

shut your eyes to the medium in the rear, and regard the dis-

turbance as emerging from the womb of chaos. Or you may

think of such a force as acting as sink to the motion in the rear,
                            is
looking no more after what      athrown into the sink. But as

I  remarked the same force will not suit for both these purposes.
In fact the required forces are simply the action and reaction

whereby the two parts of the medium act on each other.

112 POLARISATION BY SUSPENDED METALLIC PARTICLES

                                                   CAMBRIDGE,

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,                            22 Nov., 1886.

            IWhen we were talking at Burlington House looked in
Imy book for some words, which thought were at the end of the
Ipaper or nearly so, which indicated that thought the mathematical

results had to be combined with common sense in the actual
Iapplication to the results of experiment.
                                                   have since found

them, but they are at the beginning. They will be found at
p. 249 * from " The results appeared," near the top, to the end

of the paragraph over the page.

   II think shall be able to convince you, should you still feel

           it,

                    I
                             I

                                              it,
doubt of of the perfect legitimacy of taking stock successively

instead of simultaneously.

    From the time noticed                          which was in the course of ex-

periments on fluorescence,         always regarded the polarisation of

light by finely suspended particles as one of the strongest proofs
of the correctness of Fresnel's views. See Phil. Trans, for 1852,

p.  530, Arts. 182, 183f.
     P.S. When the suspended particles were metallic, or of

           j.                      sometimes seemed to me that the
                               it
quasi-metallic opacity,

polarisation was less complete, in a direction perpendicular to

the incident light, than when they were not thus powerfully

absorbing

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,                            CAMBRIDGE,

                                                          25 April, 1887.

           With respect to the Adams Prize Subject, my own

leaning would be rather to ask definitely for a discrimination
between stability and instability of motion in the case of fluid
a
when viscosity  taken into account.                would accept, either a
  %t

                           is

                          is

                                                        ;

                                                 is

                                            I

                                                                      J.

                                                                                                              a
general investigation of the condition of stability, notwithstanding

     * Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. ii.; showing that his inference as to plane

of polarisation did not depend on the details of the analysis. There seems to be

   misunderstanding here of the nature as well as the scope of Lord Kayleigh's
criticism, which repeated in Encyc. Brit. 1888, Art. "Wave Theory," Scientific
Papers, vol. iii. p. 169, and referred to in his Obituary Notice of Prof. Stokes,
reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v., see p. 13.

       Ibid. vol. iii. pp. 361363, with footnote of date 1901.
      For calculations relating to infinite conductivity, see J. Thomson, " Recent

Kesearches" (1893), 378 also more generally Rayleigh, Phil. Mag. 1897, Scientific

Papers, vol. iv. pp. 317324, and J. C. M. Garnett, Phil. Trans. 1904.

INFLUENCE OF SLIGHT VISCOSITY ON FLUID STABILITY 113

that it might be so complicated that it could not be worked out

even in a simple case, or an actual solution in a simple case.

   I am afraid that if the condition were asked for, for a perfect

fluid, we might get merely a sort of rechauffe of what you have
done, with some slight addition.

IWe can settle the thing finally on Thursday, when we three
are to meet.    thought that I would mention my view to you

beforehand that you may think of it.

                                                                        3 May, 1887.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

           I IfDarwin and are ready to agree in the enclosed.

you approve, please to sign and you may as well post to the;

Vice-Chancellor, the Master of St John's. If however there theit
                     TT                                                                 it
                                                                                            it is
slightest change which you wish to make, you had best bring toT I it,

the Royal Society, where we three should meet on Thursday.

T    do not think likely that there                           is     value of which gives//,
                                                                  a
  I
a maximum of instability.         think the smaller be p, the less will

be the stability but at the same time the longer will be the time

which must elapse before the system reaches its average state of
Ifeddying motion.
                   be the time elapsed since the commence-
ment of the motion, and M the coefficient of viscosity, the state

at the end of the time         may be regarded as defined by the

independent variables and M, Now this may have two perfectly

different limits according as we first suppose                       T  infinite, and then

diminish M indefinitely, or first make M vanish and then increase

indefinitely*.

                                                                     CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                                May, 1887.
                                                                        6
DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,                                                                         ;
                                                                                              8
                    will put more definitely my views as regards stability
in the motion of a fluid, whether viscous or not, taking for sim-                      T
     S

        I

                              if
plicity the case of steady,       stable, motion.

Let be the initial state of motion, which would be continued

indefinitely assuming the mathematical absence of all disturbance;

suppose the fluid initially to be very slightly disturbed let
be the time elapsed, S' the state reached by the end of the

     * See Math, and Plnjs. Papers, vol.                      p. 311, note added 1880.
              \I f
S. B. ii.                                                 i.

                X^B*OFLATHE

                  UNIVERSITY

                                   OF

114 DISCREPANT LIMITING FORMS IN VISCOUS FLUID MOTION

time T, M the coefficient of viscosity. Then what I believe to be

true is this :

Let T be given, however great; then the limit of S' when
M vanishes is S. But instead of T being given, let M be given,
Ihowever small ; then the limit of S' when T becomes infinite is or
may be altogether different from 8.             think that in general it
will be. It does not seem to me likely that, when a motion which

for a sufficiently great M is stable is converted by diminution
of M into one which is unstable, it will again become stable by

a further diminution of M, except in the indirect sense in which

we may define the motion as stable by calling it stable in case it

be so when, instead of seeking the limit for M vanishing of the
limit for T infinite of S, we seek the limit for T infinite of the
Ilimit for M vanishing of 8. The two limits may be profoundly

different, and such believe to be actually the case.

                                                CAMBRIDGE,
                                                        7 March, 1890.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

                 I could not help having misgivings as to the correct-

Iness of your paper read last afternoon, but the thing required
more thought.    don't of course question the accuracy of your

experiment, or the inference you drew from      is if it,that at any rate

with a fresh surface there was not much change produced in

the superficial tension by the addition of a little soap or saponine.

The point question        whether you were justified in saying
    a                     is,

      I                       is I
                                             a
that in capillary film the surface tension could not be constant.

    believe on the contrary that film can be supported with
aI                                                            it
constant surface tension. And am disposed to think that this
                                                                  is is a
the way in which actually supported. At the same time
                 it

likely enough that the support may be modified the richness in

soap gets to be different in different parts, as likely to be the

case after little time*.
    a
* This theory of Willard Gibbs and Rayleigh, assigning difference of tensionis

in vertical film to difference of concentration of the soap in the surface layers of

the film, which  only slowly equalized,  is  now generally accepted: see subse-
                                                           a

quent paper in the same year by Lord Rayleigh, Scientific Papers, vol. iii. p. 363.

VARYING SURFACE TENSION IN A LIQUID FILM                        115

                               8 March, 1890.

I did not much believe in the necessity for a difference of

surface-tension, and my first idea was that there was a motion

of some kind going on, which was excessively slow in consequence

I Iof viscosity; but when I worked out the result sent you rather

Ijumped to the conclusion that that was the explanation. But
   see now that it won't do ; for the value of d zyjda^ is too large
Ito allow y to be as small as we know it can be over a considerable
extent of film. In fact, what  sent you is nothing but the

Iordinary equation of capillarity in a different shape from the usual.

   I am still confess sceptical about the necessary difference
of surface-tension, and I am disposed to fall back on the former

idea of a very slow motion resisted by viscosity, which you seem to

have hinted at but rejected.

                                                                                                   STORNOWAY,

                                                                                                Aug. 15/90.

     MY DEAR PRESIDENT,

            IYou will see that have already escaped to one of the
most distant points in the British Isles. I expect to be home

again about Sept. 10. In the mean time anything marked to be

Iforwarded will be sent on from Terling.
         expect you pay too much attention to the whips. People
have run away to fish and shoot grouse in all directions.

   IThanks for the references, they will be useful when turn my
Iattention again to Electricity, as may do before long. At present

my thoughts run on grease*. Yours very truly,

                                                             RAYLEIGH.

                               4, WINDSOR TERRACE, MALCHIN,
                                               18 Sept., 1890.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

           I was reluctant to dissent explicitly from Dixon's

Istatement near the bottom of p. 56 of Part i [of the Report on

Vision through a Fog].... But think the thing is too important
to pass over in silence, for the importance of the burr is vastly

* See infra, p. 120.                      82

116 IMPORTANCE OF DIFFRACTED LIGHT IN FOG

underrated if it be supposed to be produced by reflection and
refraction, and I don't think its true nature is generally recognised.
I Idid not myself recognise it till lately.
                                             propose the following
I Ichange, about which will write to Thomson :
                                                      quote part of

the draft.

    In the first place it may be remarked that the relative

efficiency of two lights, seen we will suppose through annular
lenses, for illuminating fog is very far indeed from being pro-
portional to their efficiency for direct penetration. (For the light
by which the burr is produced is) deflected from its course
through an angle which is not by any means very small, and
therefore it cannot matter much whether the regular light from
which it originally came was concentrated by the lens within
a more or less small angle;...

For ( ) read

The light by which the burr is produced is in the main not

that which is reflected or refracted by the globules of water

forming the fog (this light would be too widely scattered to be
useful) but diffracted,  and retains an approximation to its primitive
direction even after
                          being diffracted more than once. It is

however

   If we take the brightest parts of the light refracted and

diffracted by a globule of radius a at a distance r, the former

being calculated as for geometrical optics, which will suffice, and

the intensity of the incident light being taken as unity, we have,

neglecting the loss by reflection, which would be only 4 per cent.,

                             22              7r 2a 4

            ratio di : re =  -~- -  = 2*46   nearly.

   If Iwe take a at 1/4000 inch, agreeing with a corona once

measured, X at 1/50000, the ratio comes 384 : 1. The sum total

of the diffracted and of the refracted would be the same (the
reflected being still neglected), and the largeness of the ratio
indicates the relatively great concentration of the diffracted as to
direction. And yet the assumed value of a is probably decidedly

too small for a dense wetting fog.

   IUnless something unforeseen prevents me, am to leave for

Cambridge to-morrow.

     RS. Do you approve of the insertion ?

:  FOG-ILLUMINATION CONTRASTED WITH HAZE  117

                       19 Sept., 1890.

      I should like to omit the words in double parentheses below,
   Iin the passage where speak of the relative importance of fog-

   illumination to direct penetration being greater in fog than in

   haze or mist. The reason is that the thing cannot well be

   explained without going into mathematical considerations which

   Iwould be out of place in a report such as we are concerned with.
   The passage might   think stand provided "diffracting" were
   substituted for " light-scattering," which would be liable to be

   misunderstood ; but even so, one reason among others is that in

   haze the particles or globules are comparatively fine, and light is

   dispersed by diffraction through a larger angle, and is therefore

   less concentrated.

        Again there is reason to think that even for the same light
   and the same lens, the relative importance of fog-illumination and
   direct penetration will depend on the thickness of the fog, supposed
   uniform, and the consequent distance from the lighthouse at which
   the light could first be seen directly. In haze or mist (most of
   the light-scattering particles intervening between the eye and
   a point a little to one side of the source of light are too far from
   the source to receive much illumination, and) the first thing
   to be seen on proceeding towards the lighthouse would probably

   be the direct light; or if a little burr were sooner seen, the

   increased distance of guidance thus afforded would be of little
   importance. In such cases therefore direct carrying power is the
   chief thing to look to.

       But if the fog were comparatively thick, &c.

      I expected to have started for England to-day, but it is now

   put off to Monday.

                                                                                           TERLING PLACE,

                                                                                                               Sept. 20/90.

        MY DEAR PRESIDENT,

                I quite agree with the suggested emendation em-

   phasising the passage.

   I It is clear to me that fog and dust act as you describe.

     experimented a good deal at one time on the acoustic behaviour

   of smoke jets. It was desirable to work with smoke as thin

   as could be well seen, and to this end it was important that

118 SMOKE- JET BEST SEEN AGAINST THE LIGHT
the light leaving the smoke for the eye should make as small
an angle as possible with its original direction.

                                                                               candle

                                                 screen

                                 eye

                                                  CAMBRIDGE,

                                                  4 Oct., 1890.

      DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

           I have not yet heard from Sir William Thomson as
Ito whether he accepts and has signed and sent in the report.
Ishould think there is little doubt that he has or will, as adopted

nearly all his suggestions

   IWhat write about is a statement I made that of the light

abstracted from the direct light by a globule of water half was
Ireflected and refracted, and half diffracted.
I Idemonstration, though said it was simple.     did not give the
                                              don't know whether

Iit (or some other demonstration) occurred to you, and whether you

talked of the matter to Thomson. may however as well mention

I it,and perhaps Thomson might like to see unless you did the
                          a      a
thing in your own way.                    a

                                              it
     Suppose wave of light (or rather series of waves) coming
from a luminous point, to fall on globule of water of radius a.

   will suppose the distance from the source to the globule, and

from the globule to the eye, to be both very large compared

with a. The portion of the wave which falls upon the front

hemisphere, the area of which portion  is                reflected and

                                                     ,2

                                                     is
                                       7m

refracted, chiefly of course refracted, and the light-energy corre-

sponding to this area withdrawn from that of the regular light.is
When the wave has just passed the globule, or say passed its

SMALL OBSTACLES DEFLECT AND SCATTER LIGHT EQUALLY 119

widest section,  it is left with a hole in it of area                                            ?ra  2   To get at
                                                                                                       .

the effect of this, imagine the quiescent hole in the wave to be the

Iseat of two equal and opposite vibrations, one, which will call A,

being the same as that of the uninterrupted wave, the other, say

B, equal and opposite.

     As regards the uninterrupted portion of the wave together

with A, everything will go on as if there had been no interruption

at all, and the light when viewed by the eye would be brought to

a point (very nearly a point) on the retina. As regards B,

everything will take place as if the wave was stopped by a screen

in which was pierced a circular hole of radius a. This will produce

a diffraction pattern on a screen at the distance of the eye, and

the total light-energy in this will be that corresponding to the

size of the aperture, equal therefore to that belonging to the

reflected and refracted light. This energy is supplied at

the expense of the regular light. Hence the total loss to the

Iregular light is double that due to reflection and refraction alone*.
        do not think the reflected and refracted light would ever

come into account in practical cases of lighthouse warning.

I think Mr Dixon was misled by the very exaggerated form in

which fog-illumination was shown, as we saw in the experimental
gallery. In that case no doubt reflection and refraction went for
Ia

                       it

                                                                            it,
great deal, as does in the light of the sky on an overcast day.

But before matters came to this condition in a practical case

think the light would be too faint to be seen.

MY DEAR PRESIDENT,                                                                        TERLING PLACE,
                                                                                                Oct. 9/90.

You spoke to me last year about the waves with

holes in them and the calculation of lost energy.
        send herewith an enlarged photograph of " " done with
a                                                                                                ab
                                                         the best as yet of this group.
  I
                                           -j%

                    I
Rowland grating.                                believe; /3

* In other words, the disturbance scattered from an area a of wave-front mustit it

                                                              is is

                                                                         a
                                                                                      /3
just neutralize that scattered from the remainder of the wave-front, for there
                                                                                                          is
no light scattered from the complete wave. But when an aperture a                                                     is
                                                                                                            small

enough, all the disturbance-energy from                  scattered. Thus the amount of light

that scattered from wave-front having hole a in                                                  equal to the amount
t                                                                                         it
                                                                                             is
    is
                  a

                                      a
that would be deflected by an obstacle a. Cf. also Rayleigh, " On the Theory of Illu-

mination in Fog," Phil. Mag., 1885 Scientific Papers, vol. ii. pp. 417 420.
         The subject of the last letter.

120 FRESNEL'S LAWS OF REFLEXION EXACT FOR A CLEAN SURFACE

IYou will be interested to hear that have found * the slight

oily film on ordinary water to have a marked effect upon reflection

at the polarising angle. While camphor is still spinning vigorously

the difference from a clean surface is fully evident. I tried the

experiment last year when first occupied with these films and

Igot no result, being misled as now find by a bad nicol. After-
I Iwards when had determined the thickness of such films thought

it was too small for an optical effect. Your query a few months
Iago led me to look into it again.
                                    expect the polarization at a

clean surface is absolute.

                                    CAMBRIDGE,

                                    8 Oct., 1892.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

I did not hear Professor Rutherford's presidential

Iaddress to the Biological Section of the British Association at

Edinburgh, but read it afterwards in Ireland. It is mainly

devoted to colour-vision. He evidently does not agree with our

Ireport, and for my part don't agree with his views. I wrote to

him about some points, and he sent me a revised copy of his
address. He said he would write later, but he had just lost a

near relation.

This turned my attention again to the subject, and an idea

has occurred to me relative to a peculiarity which you mentioned

regarding the colour-vision of two of the Balfours, namely that
though their colour matches were self-consistent, and not less
accurate than those of people in general, yet they were different

from the matches made by people in general who were not colour-

blind. Thus the proportion of green to red in order to match

daylight was in their case abnormal. You expressed the opinion

that the primary sensations of colour must be somewhat different

in different individuals.                                                           It

   I think however it might possibly be otherwise explained.

constantly happens that a colour match ceases to be a match

when the two objects compared are viewed through a coloured

glass. Nowf* before reaching the cones in the yellow spot, which

     * See Phil. Mag. Nov. 1890, and Jan. 1892 : Scientific Papers,  vol. iii. pp.  396,

496.

   f See letter from Maxwell, p. 20, supra.

COLOUR-VISION AFFECTED BY ABSORPTION AT YELLOW SPOT 121

there is very strong reason for believing are the percipient organs

in this part of the eye, the light has to pass through the yellow

colouring matter. Might not this act the part of the glass as
Iabove mentioned ?
                     don't know whether you have tried them

Ion colour matches made by looking a little to one side, so that

the images fall outside the yellow spot ; nor do know whether

Imatches could be made accurately enough with this part of the
eye even in the case of a normal-eyed person.  do not know

whether you have examined your brothers-in-law as to the facility

with which they see Haidinger's brushes, or the coloured spot

seen on first looking at the sky through a solution of chloride of

chromium, or the dark spot similarly seen when an ammoniacal

solution of a copper salt is used.

   If these phenomena should indicate an abnormal excess or

defect of the yellow colouring matter, might not the cause of the

anomaly lie in this, and not in a difference of the three fundamental

colour sensations ?

                                                                                         WHITTINGHAME,

                                                                                                          Oct. 15/92.

     DEAR SIR G. STOKES,

           I quite agree that the peculiarity of the Balfour

vision might be due to looking through an absorbing medium.

It would have to be one like weak permanganate, partially

opaque to green, while transparent to red and yellow spectrum
rays. The reason for connecting the peculiarity with the character
of the primary sensations depended upon a comparison of this with
the two types of dichromic vision. But the question is open.

   I Iwill try some time, when have a nicol by me, whether they
Isee Haidinger's brushes easily; but am not a good person to
Iintroduce the subject as cannot see them myself.

                                                                                           CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                                                                 17 October, 1892.

     DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,

            I Igot your letter this morning. After breakfast went

to my lecture room, and tried some glasses to aid in showing
Haidinger's brushes. They were specially distinct with a deep

122 DIRECTIONS FOR SEEING HAIDINGER'S BRUSHES

blue (cobalt) glass, or two such superposed. The best thickness
is about that for which the band in the yellow left after absorption

by the glass just about disappears. In seeing them for the first

time it is important to use a uniform ground. Therefore a portion
of cloud should be chosen in which no structure is visible for

a couple of degrees or so around the point of sight. Ten seconds

or so should be allowed for the eye, looking through the nicol,

to get used to the field, and then the nicol should be rapidly

turned through about 90 degrees. Before going back to the old
Iposition several seconds ought to be allowed to elapse.
                                                          don't

know whether you have tried the aid of absorbing media in looking
for them. It is important that the ground looked at should be
Ifperfectly uniform.
                      looked for on a ground of white paper, the

paper ought to be out of focus, so that the ribs or texture should

not be seen.

   I had not chloride of chromium by me, but one can't well

do better than use a cobalt blue glass of suitable depth of colour.

We want especially the part of the spectrum from a little before

F to a little before (7. A very thick blue glass which absorbed

the blue, leaving only the violet and extreme red, failed to show

them.

   IIf you fail to see them even with the assistance of a blue glass

of such depth of colour as have mentioned, I think your eyes

must be rather peculiar.

    I see something of the two absorption bands which Maxwell

Imentioned, or should rather say bands which he mentioned and
Ibelieved to be due to absorption by the yellow spot, but should
I Ithink Maxwell must have seen them much more strongly than

   do. had frequently seen these two (with me) ill-pronounced

I Iminima of illumination in looking at a spectrum of daylight, but

till read what Maxwell had written about them believe I was

Idisposed to imagine that they were weak places in the spectrum,

perhaps from abundance of dark lines. see them however, though
not easily, in the spectrum of the flame of a lamp.

                                                                                                CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                                                                        28 Oct., 1892.

   I tried again to-day about Haidinger's brushes. I think an

ammoniacal solution of a copper salt answers slightly better than
a blue glass. The strength should be such as just to absorb the

                   SEAT OF HAIDINGER'S BRUSHES                  123

Iless refrangible part of the spectrum nearly up to F.          have clear

proof, from a sort of natural vivisection of the right eye which

Ioccurred perhaps 30 years later than the injury to which

attribute 'my peculiar perception of colour, that Maxwell was

right in attributing the seat of Haidinger's brushes to absorption

in the yellow spot. There are two bands of absorption, one adjacent

F Fto on the less refrangible side, the other between and G but

nearer to the former, and in this region the strongest absorption

takes place, but it continues, though not quite so strongly, from
thence onwards. To see then the brushes to perfection, it is well

to absorb the rays till you get near F.

I If you don't see Haidinger's brushes even with the assistance

  have mentioned, I think your eyes must be peculiar. For a first

trial to see them it is important that the ground looked at should

be perfectly uniform, therefore one should not be distracted by the

fixed lines of a spectrum, and if paper be used for viewing, the

fibre should not be seen.

     P.S. To my eye there is an almost abrupt transition from

green to blue a little before F. It is just here that Haidinger's

brushes begin to appear, at least to be conspicuous.

                                     TERLING PLACE,
                                         Nov. 12/94.

DEAR SIR G. STOKES,

Thanks for your letters.                                        It will be

Have you seen Michell *, Phil. Mag. t. 36, p. 430 ?

                             think.
worth your while to look atII

                          iIt,       CAMBRIDGE,

                                                 a31 July, 1899.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH,                                    a (I

Some years ago Thomson or Kelvin                                forget which

he was then), you, and were together at the Royal Society, and

Kelvin asked me what thought of result you had arrived at

that the appearance of bands of interference in spectrum did

not prove regularity in the light, but only high definition in

the spectroscope.

    * " On the maximum wave on water, of uniform propagation."  See Math, and
Phys. Papers, vol. v. p. 159.

1-24 N.Y1TKK OF WHITE LIGHT

    It* this meant what it appeared to mean I utterly disbelieved

it, it seemed so manifestly untrue. Did it mean that the limit to

relative retardation for which interference can experimentally be

exhibited depends, as far as we have hitherto gone, on the defining
Ifpower of the spectroscope ?
                                      so, that may very well be. But the

words used seemed to imply more than that; they seemed to mean
that the appearance of regularity was no indication of any regularity
in the light itself, but was a mere creation of the spectroscope*.

That I certainly could not for a moment believe. The matter got

laid aside and dropped out of sight.

   I RBut have got from the S. a paper to report on which

obliged me to take the thing up. You refer to Gouy as having

in part anticipated you, and speak of his paper with high approval.

In your own paper I felt somewhat uncertain whether the apparent

difference between us was more than a mere difference of enuncia-

Ition. But in (Sony's paper, which you seem to endorse, can lay
Imy finger on what hold to be a mathematical oversight which

vitiates his conclusion.

    But for fear of ambiguity I must first explain what I mean by

regularity in light. The disturbance which we ordinarily consider,

in applying mathematics to the undulatory theory of light, is the

simple harmonic disturbance expressed by a sine or a cosine. The

mathematical expression denotes a disturbance going on for ever.

and if we contemplate it as consisting of plane waves travelling,

then travelling from minus infinity to plus infinity. Nobody of

course supposes that the actual vibrations of light can be thus

mathematically regular       "f.

DEAR SIR G. STORKS                       TERLING PLACE,
                                                Aug. 1099.

                             am afraid that shall stand condemned, for do
a                                 I                                    I
       +
                     isthink that u a vast succession of independent impulses following

                     is a 1one another casually" would show interference, of course with

the aid of spectroscope.          aI  understand you to hold that there

* It seems likely that there is misunderstanding here. Prof. Stoke? thinking

of the interference of the whole of the light belonging to bright line which the
                                         :
spectroscope               employed merely to isolate, whereas Lord Kayleigh's thesis relates toa

narrow band of light separated from pure spectrum, continuous or not.
                                      a

This Prof. Stokes' copy, apparently unfinished perhaps the letter was not

sent. Cf. Larmor, Phil. Hag. Nov. 1905; also Eayleigh, Phil. May. Jan. 1900.

      PERIODICITY IMPRESSED BY AN OPTICAL GRATING                                             125

could be no interference when two identical trains of such dis-

turbance are superposed with a relative retardation, because

there would be no relation between the two disturbances which

then become simultaneous. But in my view the effect of the

spectroscope is to introduce such relation.

The case of a grating is the easier. The most arbitrary

disturbance, e.g. a single impulse, is reflected from the grating with

                                         and then becomes capable of
I
                p.
                     is
                                              it,
                                                 it
                                                                                                                   ;7
a periodicity imposed upon

interference. And the greater the number of lines in the grating,
the " higher "
                       the interference possible. All of which may be

illustrated acoustically.
     My views are to be found in Ency. Brit., Wave Theory,

also 14, 438.

      do not understand how your position can be reconciled with

Fourier's theorem, according to which the most arbitrary dis-
turbance possible can be represented as made up of systems of

pendular waves.

DEAR SIR G. STOKES,                                          GLENFERNESS,
                                                                      Sept. 12/99.

                   Thanks for your letters.

        had seen your Rontgen Ray lecture. Indeed had in my
mind when wrote short note to Nature in the Spring of /98*.

  shall be going home in few days.
I
   I

             I

                                       a
                                                 a

                                                         I

                                                                                          it

DEAR SIR G. STOKES,                      10, DOWNING STREET, S.W.
                                                       Feb. 12/00.

        My doubts as to Godfrey arose at quite different
                 a
                                                             can say no more
                       ;

                      f
                               I

                                             I
                                                       I

                                                                                         a
point from yours and as to the paper

than have already.

   If understand your views,
t I II                                   do not agree.       It seems to me

that whatever be the disturbance incident upon a grating, the

light sent off in particular direction will have been made regular,

and be capable of giving interference bands.

      am off to Manchester to-morrow morning, or would have

tried to see you at Burlington House.

*     On the subject of the last letter  Scientific Papers, vol. iv. p. 353.
                                         of collisions and of the motion of molecules
      See Rayleigh, " On the influence ;
                                                          a
in the line of sight upon the Constitution of Spectrum Line," Proc. Roy. Soc.,

July 1905, pp. 440-4.

126 CHANGE OF VOLUME OF TUBE BY PRESSUKE

        To PROF. THOMAS ANDREWS.

                     LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                4th Dec. 1876.

MY DEAR DR ANDREWS,

        I have now worked out the formulae for the determination

of the change of volume of one of your cylindrical tubes (i.e. of
the interior of it) when subject to certain pressures inside and out.

Following the notation employed in a paper of mine published

in the 8th vol. of the Cambridge Phil. Trans., let B be the

constant of rigidity of the glass and ^A the constant of com-
J J.pressibility, so that AS is the pressure corresponding to a cubical
compression 8 or linear compression  Let a, b be the inner
and outer radii of the tube ; P, Pf the inner and outer pressure,

e the extension of a unit length parallel to the axis, q the radial

extension to a distance r from the axis (so that a particle of the
glass originally at a distance r is now at a distance r + q) then

        e = const., q cr 4- c'/r,

and if e be the expansion of a unit volume of the interior [space],

        e = 2c + 2c'/a2 + e,              (1)

the first two terms being due to the change of section and the

last to the change of length.

     The following are the expressions for c, c' and e given by the
theory of elasticity. Put for shortness

,_-so that II is the longitudinal tension referred to a unit of surface

produced by the pressures P, P'\ then

                                                                                                     (3)
        -~ 2 2 '

whence  _e = H/A,                         (5)
                                          (6)
        e= sn + _b>A2(p_-_p_').

                APPLIED INTERNALLY OR EXTERNALLY               127

If g be the cubic dilatation at any point of the glass,

which is independent of r.

   If we take for the starting-point of our measurements the

condition under atmospheric pressure then we should by rights

take for P, P' the excesses of the pressures inside and out over

one atmosphere.

    If we have pressure inside only we have from (2) and (6),

                P< a _6?-o!_M! &*-a5l'

and if outside only,  -_J^lP:L       i6 2

                      e  ~V-a?A  + l?-a?B'
                      7

In these expressions the first terms depend on the yielding of the

glass to change of volume, the second to a yielding of rigidity
irrespective of change of volume. In your experiments b is at

least as great as 8a, so that a2/b z is at most -fa. Also according

to the theory adopted by Poisson and Lame, A = 5B.

   I believe that in general A is considerably greater than 5B,

though, according to Everett, for flint glass A : B is not much
different from 5. Hence the second term of e in (8), which

depends on the resistance of the glass to change of form, is more

than 100 times as great as the first term which depends on the

resistance of the glass to change of volume.
PWe see from (9) that when a pressure
                                              is applied outside,

instead of in, the part of the change of interior volume due to a

yielding of the glass to change of form is the same as before,

while the part depending on compression of volume of the glass

is no longer insignificant unless A be practically infinite compared
with B, whereas according to Everett, for flint glass (however it
may be for crown) A does not much differ from 5B. For a

pressure P' equal to P applied outside only, e, so far from being
Pinsignificant, exceeds the e for a pressure inside by

                                         SP/A.

If be the coefficient of compressibility for liquid inside, and

the coefficient of apparent compressibility when the pressure
applied inside only, and A,' the coefficient of apparent dilatation
/Lt

                                                                                     a

                                                                                                     is X

128 DETERMINATION OF ABSOLUTE COMPRESSIBILITIES BY TUBES

when the pressure is applied outside only, we             have                from (8)

and (9),

                                  3a2 1             b2 1

The best way to determine seems to be this. Determine by
                               is
                                                yu,
                                                           of
                                                                                                X
experiment, and determine the constant                 rigidity of the glass-

by the resistance to torsion of one of the hollow cylinders em-

ployed. The formula

wrhere  it      the angle of torsion for a length along the axis, and
                                                       z
            is
M the moment of torsion. For the sake of merely determining

ft  there would be no need to determine A, for the term in (10) in

which occurs practically so small that no sensible error would
                if iswe put = oB or even A = oo . Everett would
be committed                   A
                    I/
probably be willing to determine by his method.

    If X' were determined as well as the equations (10), (11),
                                      B

                                                X

(12) would give /j,, A, and l/B. The determination of                         it     would
                                                                                 X7
however involve great experimental difficulties, or at least the

adoption of different apparatus, and would apparently be easier
                                           it

to insert slender glass rod (not tube) of the same kind of glass,a

going loosely into the bore, the greater part of which fills, and

fill the interval with mercury, and compare the result with that

obtained when mercury fills the whole of the bore of not neces-

sarily the same but similar tube.

    If V be the internal volume,
          is                               U      the portion filled up by the

                   U                             2                            when the

                           3a
glass rod, X^ the coefficient of apparent compressibility

pressure inside,               ++V-U
                                 V
                                           Va-a?AV  3     62
                                                                     1
                                                                           '

and (10), (12), (13) give l/B, A, and /*.
                                  I/

    Or else the difference of compressibility of mercury and glass

(of the same kind as the tubes) might be determined in Oersted's
manner, and then the value of              3/A thus got, combined with
                                      //,

(10) and (12), would give /*, I/A, l/B.
       think the absolute compressibilities thus determined would be
    I

               CONDITIONS FOR SUCCESS OF THIS METHOD                  129

more trustworthy than any that have hitherto been given. Purely

hydrostatic methods like that of Oersted give only differences of

compressibility. Purely elastic methods like that of Everett give

theoretically I/A and \JB ) but the former goes for so little in the
result that its experimental determination is precarious. Reg-

nault's method, and that of those who have attempted to determine

cubic compressibilities from the extension of wires, and to correct

-Oersted's compressibilities of liquids, are vitiated by the assumption
that A = 5B. Your method of a capillary tube supplies by the

aid of equation (10) the missing link. The danger is that the

term       b2     1  may  be very much  larger  than /JL, so that  the mag-

      ^        --^

nitude of X may be mainly due to that term, in which case errors
of observation whether of X or of B would tell seriously in their

influence on //,. It ought not to be so if Regnault's values of

the absolute compressibility of mercury and of glass are anything

Ilike right ; but am by no means sure they may not be much too

large.

   In my former letter I used Green's notation. Distinguishing

his A, B (the A, B of my former letter) by accents A', B' , we have

I have verified that my formulas reduce themselves to Lame's

when the relation A = oB is assumed.
I return the first sheet. The marked sentence on page 4
Ifdoes not seem correct.  P' were = P we should get from (2)

and (6),

so that there is contraction of volume notwithstanding that
when the pressure is internal only there is expansion, as given

by equation (8).
     The sentence might perhaps be altered thus :

        "Nor would any useful... diameter of the bore, and any
change in the capacity would be too small to demand attention."

    It is true that the change, pressure inside, is due mainly to

the alteration of section, not length ; but it is not true that this
would not be prevented by an equal pressure outside. As to the
most important term in (8), the glass is simply pushed out in the
manner of a cylindrical annulus of incompressible fluid ; there is

as much change of volume outside as in, but the radial displace-
ment is of course less in the proportion of a to b.

      s. B. ii.                                                    9

130 METHOD OF MEASURING COMPRESSIBILITIES

   I Isee put the printed notice to authors into your paper instead
Iof sending it to you, now enclose it. Please say whether one

was sent you with the proof.

                                       Believe me, Yours sincerely,

                                               (Signed) G. G. STOKES.

   IP.S. have suggested " yielding " for "compression" on page 5,

as the change of internal volume is almost entirely of the nature
of that of an india-rubber tube subject to liquid pressure inside.

      Once the absolute compressibility of one substance, such as
mercury, is known, those of others are probably best got by
Oersted's method.

              FROM PROF. P. G. TAIT.

                 38 GEORGE SQUARE, EDINBURGH,
                                               10/7/86.

MY DEAR STOKES,

IIs Andrews' paper* in type yet?      ask because Mrs

Andrews is desirous of getting private copies.
     Can you tell me what was the process, finally determined on

between you and Andrews, for finding the absolute compressibility
Iof mercury?
              am stopped in my pressure work by this very

question or, at least, by a question which can be reduced to this.

I will gladly make the experiments. Andrews told me some

13 years ago that you and he had decided on a planf, ....

                 Yours truly,

                                      P. G. TAIT.

   IP.S. Might send you proofs of a paper on " Kinetic Theory

of Gases " ? Cayley was kind enough to look at it in MS., but of

course I cannot inflict it on him now.

     Sylvester spent the day with me, on his way to seek seclusion,
for work, at St Andrews.

* Posthumous paper on compression of gases, in Phil. Trans. , 1886.

t Supra, p. 128.

GRAVITY THE AGENT IN ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRIFICATION 131

                              38 GEORGE SQUARE, EDINBURGH,

                                          26/12/89.

I had to get De la Rive's book out of the Library to read

the passage you referred to. But it seems to me that you have

misapprehended my difficulty. Long ago (1880?) you told me

about gravity as the cause of the large separation of the electri-
Icities : and, in my lecture of that year, spoke of you as holding
Ithat opinion.
                  can find a copy for you without trouble.
IWhat want, and have been seeking for thirty years at least,
is the initial cause of the electrification. I could get no trace of

electrification by any process of evaporation (unless there was

fizzing or sputtering, and then friction was to be suspected, as

in Faraday's explanation of the Armstrong hydroelectric machine).

IHence was led to look for it as a contact effect of particles of
Iair and water-vapour.
                        have not been able to prove that this
Iis a vera causa, but neither have been able to disprove it.

   IThe student who was working the quartz spectroscope has got

an appointment in Madras, and have been too busy of late to
Imake any experiments myself. But hope to resume work with
Iit next month.
                  had several pieces of spar cut, according to
Iyour plans, by Hilger: and have at last got an arrangement

which seems to leave nothing to be desired. The two images

are exactly in one plane, and polarized in rigorously perpendicular

I Iplanes. Their only defect is that they are somewhat small : but

if enlarge them get results of obliquity which render measure-

ments uncertain.

                                                     30/12/89.

There are two points in which your proposed experiment
Idiffers quite from any that
                              have tried : viz. the rise of an

admixture of light gas to pull away the negatively electrified air

upwards, while gravity pulls the positive drops down; and the
Iintroduction of the previous filtering.
                                          send you a copy of my
I1880 lecture. At p. 27 you will find what said of you. And
Iat pp. 26, 30 you will find, respectively, the theory sought to
Iestablish and the nature of the experiments made. The last

sentence of the marked passage on p. 26 was, of course, written

before we knew of Aitken's experiments.                     92

132 WHITENESS OF SNOW

     Prof. Michie Smith told me, a few weeks ago, much the same
thing as that you say of Clement Ley : but he put it in the

form that a "thunder- head" (the top of an ascending column of
hot moist air) does not become active till it has risen through a
Icold stratum of cirrus or, rather, cirro-stratus cloud.
Ionce that                                                saw at

            had often made the observation myself, without
Ithinking what it implied : because whenever
                                              see anything
Ilike this I know that thunder is pretty sure to follow.
                                                          have

often escaped a wetting on St Andrew's Links by attending to

this, while those who disregarded it got deluged.

   I think it is Van d. Mensbrugghe who ascribed the separation

of the electricities to capillary forces : but, if that be so, how
does the air get one of them ? That was the difficulty which led

me to ascribe the separation to co?iac-difference between air

and vapour. Your experiment will not decide this question.

    P.S. Look at my article in the Phil. Mag. for January, soon

due.

                                              2/1/90.

You will find Helmholtz' view of the genesis of a thunder-

cloud (an observation like that of Mr Ley) in the Berichte of the
Berlin Physical Society, 22/10/86. A short version of it is in
INature, xxxv. p. 24.
     When you have leisure,  should like much to know what

you think is the cause of the WHITENESS of snow, as seen on a

dark night far from any terrestrial source of light and when the

only illumination is from clouds which seem (at least) not white
nor neutral grey, but INDIGO. Is snow a fluorescent substance ?

I have thought of this every winter for many years : but I have

Inever had a really satisfactory trial with a spectroscope. When

observations have been possible, have always been unable to

Iget into a part of the country where they could properly be

made. But on two or three occasions, when was obliged to

be out long before sun-rise, but after the gas-lights were out, the
contrast of tint between the snow and the cloud-hemisphere has

much impressed me.

Have you seen E. Wiedemann's modification of the 2nd Law

of Thermodynamics, made to include Fluorescence and Phosphor-

escence ?

                                                                               133

ON OBSERVATIONS OF WAVES AND
                SWELLS AT SEA.

            To SIR EDWARD SABINE, Pres. RS.

                                  BLACKROCK, BUSH MILLS,
                                                              22 Sept., 1870.

MY DEAR SIR EDWARD,

IWill yon be so good as to give me Mr Melsens's address
and his initials?  am thinking of writing to him to give more

explicit directions about observing the periodic time of rollers.

My attention was attracted to the subject by a heavy ground

swell which we had to-day along with fine weather and otherwise
I Ismooth sea.
                   observed a few series at intervals, No. 1 when

went down with Mary and the children to look at the waves,

INos. 2 and 3 perhaps 20 m. or half-an-hour later, Nos. 4, 5, 6 after
we returned to the house.       got the following results, n being the

number of intervals (or n + 1 the No. of waves) in the series, and
t the mean (or rather the most probable) interval in seconds.

ISeries No....             2345 6

            n = 12            8      9      4          2     10
            t = 17-08      15-17  15-37  14-40      14-50  13-93

Taking the  means  of those     series observed     in quick succession

we have                 No. 1           = 17-08
                    2 and 3                 15'27
                                            14-28.
                       4, 5, 6

This seems to show a progressive diminution of periodic time

134 SORTING OUT OF OCEAN WAVES AT DISTANCE FROM SOURCE

a result which I had not anticipated, but which is easily explained.

The ground-swells are doubtless travellers from a distant region
of the ocean which has been disturbed by a heavy gale, and as in
deep water the velocity of propagation varies as the square root

A/of the wave-length, the formula being v =  5 , the longei waves

excited in the disturbed region outrun the shorter, and come first

to our shores.

   If t be the periodic time, X the wave-length in deep water,

\ ^;v the velocity of propagation also in deep water, = ~- , v =
                                                                                                                                ZTT ZTT

when the waves are propagated into shallow water the velocity
and wave-length decrease according to a known formula.

     For the periodic times

I find    =17          15     14 sec.

        v = 8710    76-86  7173 feet per sec.
                    52-40  49'82 miles per hour
           = 59-38  1152   1005 feet
        X = 1482
                      192    167-5 fathoms.
           = 247

     Taking the velocity at 50 miles an hour for round numbers,

if the age of the waves was 24 hours the seat of disturbance
would be 1200 miles off. A gale might well exist at such a

distance contemporaneously with fine weather in the neighbour-

hood.

     The longest waves in open ocean mentioned by the late
Captain Stanley were of 40 or 50 fathoms. Waves of the enormous
length of 200 fathoms, of a height measured by inches rather than
feet, and of a form such that a section of the surface is the curve

of sines, would at sea pass well-nigh or absolutely unperceived.

It is only when they are propagated into the shallow water round

our coasts and for waves of such length, water of 100 fathoms
must be deemed shallow that they attract attention. The same
amount of vis viva per wave having to be kept up in spite of the
restricted depth and diminished length of disturbance, i.e. of water
disturbed, the height of the waves would be increased very greatly

when the water becomes as shallow as 10 fathoms, even if the form

of the surface remained such that a section was the curve of sines.

But besides this the elevated portions become narrow and steep,

  VERY LONG WAVES BECOME CONSPICUOUS ONLY NEAR SHORE 135

and the troughs comparatively Hat, so that the height of the former
must be still further increased.

   IThe waves proved more regular than had anticipated; thus

the first series gave the intervals, in seconds, 19, 17, 16, 18, 17,

I18, ^t, 14, 18, 18, 18.

        can't help thinking the observation of ground- swells would

Ibe useful in connexion with the discussion of the logs of ships.

The only element which see my way to observing quantitatively
with considerable precision, at least the only element worth observing
quantitatively, is the periodic time, and that can be done with no
more apparatus than a common watch provided with a seconds'
hand. This could easily be done by the coast-guard man at 4 or 5
stations along the Atlantic coast of Scotland and Ireland.

     We go to Armagh to-morrow for perhaps 3 weeks.

   IAlthough began my letter by merely asking for Mr Melsens's
I Iaddress have let my pen run on, on a subject which was led to

take a renewed interest in yesterday.

                    To MR MELSENS, ST HELENA.

                                                        OBSERVATORY, ARMAGH, IRELAND,
                                                                                       29*A Sept., 1870.

     DEAR SIR,

              Some considerable time ago Gen. Sir E. Sabine showed
me a paper of yours relative to the rollers observed at St Helena.
We have not far to go for an explanation. We know that a heavy
gale, still more a hurricane, out at sea, would produce a great
disturbance in the ocean, heavy waves in fact. This disturbance
would not be confined to the region in which it was excited, but
would be propagated outwards into what would otherwise be
smooth water, or else, it may be, into water in which smaller waves
already exist, and the two would go on independently of each other.
The waves would thus reach a region which the storm had not yet
come to, or perhaps never would come to at all. In the region
originally disturbed the motion is rather complicated, but it may

136 VALUE OF OBSERVATIONS OF FREQUENCY OF OCEAN WAVES

be regarded as made up of different series of waves superposed,
the waves of each series being regular, but the wave-length, and
with it the periodic time, differing from one series to another.
Now the velocity of propagation of waves in deep water varies
with the periodic time, the velocity of propagation (v), periodic
time (t), and wave-length (X), being thus connected:

g being gravity, and TT the ratio of the circumference of a circle
to the diameter.

      Hence the long waves would outrun the shorter, and be the
first to arrive at a distant shore. The shorter waves too in a long
course would be much reduced by friction, which would hardly
affect the long waves. After diverging to a considerable distance
from the disturbed region, the long waves would be much reduced
in height, and to the crew of a vessel far out at sea would perhaps
be hardly sensible. But on arriving in the comparatively shallow
water which surrounds an island (and for such long waves water
which would ordinarily be regarded as pretty deep must be deemed
shallow) the waves mount up, and at last, it may be, become very
formidable.

     The velocity of propagation and the length of the waves

I(or distance from crest to crest) both diminish as the waves are

propagated into shallow water, while as have said the height
increases. But there is one element which remains unchanged
during the life of a series of waves, namely, the periodic time.
This element is easily observed, and not only helps to identify
(or the reverse) series of waves observed at different stations (such
as St Helena and Ascension), but also makes known the velocity
of propagation in deep water, furnishing thereby a relation between
the distance the waves have travelled from the region of disturbance
and the time which has elapsed since the disturbance took place.
And my chief object in writing is to give some hints as to the
best mode of observing the periodic time.

     My attention was attracted to the subject during a recent
sojourn on the north coast of Ireland by noticing a heavy
surf which came in one day though the weather was fine and

calm.

   I Ifound got better results by observing when the waves

OF                                                   137

            METHOD OF CONDUCTING EXACT OBSERVATIONS

reached a particular rock than by observing when the ridges of
the waves seen sideways, as they entered a bay, were in a line with

a particular object on shore. The observation requires no more

apparatus than a common watch with a seconds' hand. A single
person can observe very well; but it is more satisfactory when two

work in concert, as one can then keep his eye on the rock while

the other keeps his eye on the watch, when the time draws near

when the wave is about to reach the rock. In that case the

second notes and writes down the time when the first calls out

"now."

     Waves usually come in sets followed by a comparative lull
during which observation might be uncertain. Suppose we observe

the times when a set of say 10 or 12 consecutive waves reach the

rock. Of course, if we can observe more so much the better,

provided it can be done with certainty. But say we are able to
observe 10 or 12. By dividing the interval of time between the
first and last by the number of wave-intervals, we shall get a very
good value of the mean interval. But in this way all the observa-
tions except the first and last would be thrown away, and it is
obvious that a better result would be obtained by utilizing all the
observations and assigning to them their proper weights respectively.
The rule for this is simple enough. Let n be the number of wave-
intervals in the set, so that w+ 1 is the number of waves observed.

Taking the observed times, write the first under the last, the second
under the last but one, and so on, and take the differences.

Multiply these differences by n, n 2, n 4, &c., and take the sum

of the products. Divide this sum by %n(n + l)(n + 2), and you

will get the best value of the mean interval deduced from the

whole set.

    If n be even the multipliers are all even, and it saves trouble

-to take the halves of the multipliers, namely, ?i, n 1, \n 2,

&c., or, beginning at the other end, the natural numbers 1, 2, 3...,

and to divide by T^ n (n + 1) (n 4- 2).
     Should the time of one of the waves be uncertain from any

accident, the mean of the times of the waves next before and next

after may be taken as its time, and the rule carried out.

    I Itake for example the first series observed. The seconds

observed were 49, 8, 25, 41, 59, 16, 34 [51], 8, 22, 40, 58, 16, one

wave being missed or uncertain, and its time 51 being supplied

from | (34 + 68) = 51. Supplying the minutes reduced to seconds,

138 KELIABILITY OF OBSERVATIONS OF WAVE- FREQUENCY

which it was not necessary to write down, and proceeding according

to the rule, we have

49 68 85 101 119 136 154 171 188 202 220 238 256

                         136 119 101 _85 _68                      49
                                                                207
                           35 69 101 135 170

                         _1 _2 __3 __4                       5 __6
sum = 3108,              "35 138 303 540                 850 1242

J^1n + l)(n + 2) = 12_X  4 = 13x14 = 182,* =                    = 17-08.

   If the first 12 waves only had been observed, the process would

have been

49 68 85 101 119 136 154 171 188 202 220 238

                         135736 119 101 85                 68   49
                           8 ~52 87 117                  152    11

                                                             9

sum = 487o,              - -- --18 156 435 819 1368 2079

                         - = 11.1-2.13 = 286,

IAs a test of the trustworthiness of the result, will take the odd

and even waves separately, and determine the periodic time
independently from each group, doubling the denominator, as
otherwise we should get the time of a double interval.

49 85 119 154 188 220 256

         123119 85 49
                                    69 135 207
             69 270 621 sum = 960.

^- ^^Denominator = 2 . 6
             8 = 7x8;                           =        = 17-14.

             68 101 136 171 202 238

                    135136 101 68

                                  "35 TOT T70
             35 303 850 sum = 1188.

             2x^- ^7 = 70,                     = 16-97.

     These two last, which are totally independent of each other
except as to the influence of the single wave supplied, not directly

NORMAL SUCCESSION OF WAVES FROM A DISTANT STORM 139

observed, differ from one another only by 0'17, about the th of a

second    or the ^^th part of the whole interval. The first and last
waves                                        256--49
          taken  alone  wroula  have  given           =  207     =  17*25,
                                                             r-
                                             1I

differing little from the other determinations, but probably not

quite so near the truth, as depending on the observation of

two waves only, the number of waves intervening being merely

counted.

The observation mentioned was taken about 11 a.m. Somewhat

later in the day the periodic time had sunk to 15'2 s., and next

day, when there were still swells, though not deserving the name
of surf, it had sunk to 14'2 s. In consequence of this change,

it would be desirable to take the periodic time 2 or 3 times a day

while the rollers last, and each time on two or three series so as to

make sure of the result. The slight change in periodic time is

Iquite in accordance with what said about the longer waves

outrunning the shorter.

     For the object of determining the velocity of propagation
of the waves in deep water, an approximate determination of the

velocity would suffice, as there is no object in knowing the velocity

with great precision. The chief use of a more accurate determina-

tion is to assist in determining the probable identity (or the
reverse), as to origin, of rollers observed at distant stations, such

as St Helena and Ascension. For it does not seem likely that

in the rollers produced by different storms the periodic time would

agree, except occasionally by chance. In some heavy waves

accompanying a storm felt at the place, on the north coast of

IIreland, found the periodic time was only 7 or 8 seconds instead

of from 14 to 17.

The numerical calculation involved in the application of the
Irule
          have mentioned is not very serious, unless the series

comprises a large number of waves. In that case if the application

of the regular rule be thought too irksome, it would be well, instead

of taking the first and last only of the series, to take the mean of

a few at the beginning and a few at the end. To go back to the

first example, I will take the mean of three at the beginning and

three at the end. The mean of 49, 68 and 85 is 67*33 and that
of 220, 238 and 256 is 238'00. The difference 238*00 -67'33 or

170*67 corresponds to 12-1 1 or 10 intervals, and we have in

this way t = x 170*67 = 17 '07 agreeing almost exactly with the-fa

140 BEST MODE OF OBSERVING OCEAN WAVES

result got by the regular rule. The mean of 2 at each end would
have given

                     mean of 49 and 68 = 58'5
                               238 and 256 = 247'Q

corresponding to 11 intervals, giving            1 Q Q *"

                                        t = = 17 '14.

Suppose we wished to take 3 at each end, but deemed the last
wave but two uncertain; we might then take 3 at the beginning
and 2 at the end,

                  mean of 49, 68, 85 = 67'33
                mean of 238 & 256 = 247'00

Jcorresponding to 10 intervals, giving  -=t = 17*11.
                                                1 U'o

II have multiplied examples perhaps to prolixity, as  wished

to put you in full possession of the method of procedure, and any

explanation which might be found requisite would take a long

time to travel by post.

I A word or two may be useful as to the mode of observation.
   found it better to observe when the waves reached a particular
rock than when their ridges, seen edgeways as they entered a small
bay, were in a line with an object on shore. A rock should be

selected, if possible, in sufficiently deep water for the waves not to

break before they reach it. If the form of the coast permit of the

observer's stationing himself so as to get a side view of the waves

as they approach the rock, so much the better, as the observer can

then see their ridges as they approach the rock, and is better

prepared to note the exact moment when they reach it. The
Ifcalculation prescribed gives the time in watch-seconds.
                                                           the

watch used has a gaining or losing rate of sufficient magnitude

to be sensible in the observation, the calculated wave-interval

should be reduced to. true seconds.
IIn case you should have occasion to write,
                                             may as well

Imention that my normal address is Lensfield Cottage, Cambridge.
  am writing to get your address from Sir E. Sabine.

           ON THE STUDY OF SHIPS' KECORDS OF WAVES                             141

To CAPTAIN A. H. TOYNBEE, MARINE SUPERINTENDENT,

                             METEOROLOGICAL OFFICE.

                                 OBSERVATORY, ARMAGH,
                                                   5 September, 1878.

MY DEAR SIR,

           I am much obliged by the forwarding of the extract from
ICaptain Watson's log. It reached me during the bustle of the
[British] Association week at    Dublin, and left the       study of it

till I should be uninterrupted.    It is very interesting,  and points
I think unmistakably to a violent gale, in all probability a cyclone,

which passed somewhere between Bermuda and Cape Hatteras.

               by                                                              about
                                                             2
                                                                        3

                                                                           it,
                                                                                               a
The vortex passed the ship, or rather the ship passed

5.30 on the 5th, but that time the cyclone had in good measure

died out. The very heavy swell which was felt at 5.30 p.m. on
the 4th was produced a good way to the S.S.W. of the then place

of the ship, at an earlier time by perhaps or days and at
considerable distance to the S.S.W.

have been laying down the places of the ship, and you may
I

       is
expect to hear from me again at greater length in a day or two.
It curious to see that captains seem to have so little idea of

the propagation of waves, excited in a stormy region, into region
               I

                   it

                           is

                             I

                                            it

                                                                            a
where, as regards the wind,      a comparative calm. As to the

production of such swells by currents, hold to be quite out of

the question.

                             am, dear sir, yours faithfully,

                                                   G. G. STOKES.

EXTRACT FROM METEOROLOGICAL LOG (4289) OF S.S. "ALGERIA."

                   CAPTAIN WILLIAM WATSON.

Sunday, 3rd March, 1878.

       to p.m. (Lat. 43 33' N., Long. 50 44' W.). A confused sea

S.W., W.N. W., and N. at intervals of minutes there was a swell
5
         6
                                                ;

                               J2

142 HEAVY OCEAN SWELL TRAVELLING IN WAVE-GROUPS

running in well-defined ridges from W.N.W., having a period of
6'7 seconds and about 12 feet high; ship's course S. 84 W. 12 knots;
depth of water 35 fathoms on Bank of Newfoundland.

     This swell first appeared low, each succeeding undulation being
higher, up to the fifth or seventh, when it gradually subsided and
became lost in the other seas. Each series of from 12 to 15
undulations occupied from 80 to 95 seconds; and they followed
each other with remarkable regularity.

Monday, 4th March.

     From 2 a.m. (Lat. 43 22' N., Long. 52 43' W.) to 8 a.m.
(Lat. 43 9' N., Long. 54 9' W.), wind S. with hard squalls, an

occasional one going up to force 9; at a.m. the squalls less severe

and with longer intervals between them ; from 9.30 to 10 a.m. the

anemometer gave 38 miles per hour as the velocity of wind, but

the force varied between 6 and 8; from 11 to noon velocity by

anemometer 287 miles per hour, but the force was sometimes

as low as 4 with gusts going up to force 7. From noon to 2 p.m.

wind steady at force 6, velocity by anemometer 31 miles per hour,

from 2 to 4 p.m. wind increasing with hard squalls. Anemometer
showed 76 miles as distance travelled by wind in that time. At

7 p.m. wind moderating and rain passing away, the clouds breaking

in the west; at 8 p.m. wind S.S.W. 5; Midt. wind S.W. 4 with

passing showers of rain.

     The sea kept smooth until 8 a.m. (Lat. 43 9' N., Long. 54 9' W.)
at which time it was coming from S.S.W. about 10 feet high, but

by 10.30a.m. it had risen to 20 feet, still running true from S.S.W.;

from 10.30 to 10.45 a.m. 136 wave-crests passed under the ship ;

course of ship S. 80 W. 10 knots, depth over 1000 fms.; 1.30 p.m.
sea rising and the period had increased to 8*5 sec. At 4 p.m. some

of the wave-crests were so high that, when standing on the bridge

in the middle line of the ship with the eye 30 feet above the

water-line, as they approached they rose some feet above a line

joining the eye and horizon and the same as they passed to leeward.

IAt this time put the ship's head more to the sea. At 5.30 p.m.

waves at their highest and having a period 13'4 sec. and at least

forty feet high. Course of ship S. 40 W. 5 knots; at this time a

sea was now and then seen coming from the W.S.W. When the

ship was nearly end on to the sea and in the trough of  it,  the

PROXIMITY OF THE TRAVELLING STORM- VORTEX  143

crests of the advancing and receding waves were seen high above
the bow and stern.

     As there was comparatively little wind the S.S.W., sea had to

some extent the character of a swell, and only when the W.S.W.

came along did the water break. The ship rode easily and did not
take any water aboard till towards midnight, when the Wly. sea

Ihad gained some height and force and had put the ship on her
Icourse S. 80 W. While heading the S.S.W. sea watched the
Iship closely and counted how often she rose and fell to it; after

doing so for 45 minutes and taking an average made her rise and
fall 8*9 times in 123 seconds. At midnight the S.S.W. sea falling,
but the Wly. sea running fast with an occasional heavy break.

Tuesday, 5th March.

    Up to 6 a.m. (Lat. 41 57' N., Long. 58 8' W.) wind quite

moderate and backing to the Sd. 7 a.m. breeze freshening, with a

wild-looking sky. Wly. sea going down. 8.15 a.m. wind south 7.

Cum. having a ragged and torn appearance, flying rapidly from
W.S.W., low cirs. from W., heavy cums. gathering in the W.
and rising fast. 8.45 a.m. wind flew into N.W. 9, a heavy
but short rain shower just before the wind shifted the clouds
overhead, and they were very low, were whirled about with an

I japparent motion from right to left  as could be seen against the

upper clouds; the moment the wind came from the N.W. they
were all driven to leeward and nothing but low scud was seen
flying over the sky, now covered with high cirs., while in the N.W.
was a low bank of nim. dense and black as ink; the squall lasted

an hour, and by noon had moderated to force 2.

     At 8 a.m. (Lat. 41 53' N., Long. 58 36' W.) the S.S.W. sea was
still high and coming along in ridges as straight as a ruled line,

but the period had increased to 15 sec. and the height was 36 feet
measured by ascending the rigging until the eye, the crest of the

144 DESCRIPTION OF PROGRESS OF HIGH OCEAN SWELL

coming wave and the horizon were in one line. It was a fine sight

to see those masses of water rolling along in rather a calm sort of
way, the ship one moment on the crest, and in a very few seconds
after, away down in the trough with a hill of water on each side;

the Wly. sea appeared so insignificant as hardly to be worth notice,

though it now and then made us aware of its presence by sending
a shower of spray over the bridge. At noon (Lat. 41 45' N.,
Long. 59 32' W.) the S.S.Wly. sea was running with a height of
25 feet and a period of 15 sec. Course of ship S. "79 W. 12 knots.

At 6 p.m. it had fallen considerably and was coming from south
with a period of 11*6 sec. and a height of 17 feet ; by midnight it

had almost passed away.              We had no wind to speak of,
     Where did this sea come from?
                                    Ilower than 29'45, yet was
the atmospheric pressure was not

obliged to bring a large and powerful steamer head to the sea, not
Iwishing to run any risk of doing damage.
                                               have on more than

one occasion found the sea, for a given force of Sly. wind, higher in

this locality than in any other part of the Atlantic.

    Last November, when in about the same position, I had to take

in the square sails and bring the ship's hd. to the sea. Yet this

sea got up all at once, ran heavily for four hours, and then fell as

fast as it had risen. Whether the currents, the Gulf and Labrador

streams, which are not very far apart in the position of the

"Algeria" on the 4th and 5th of March, have anything to do with

Ithis 1 can't say, but from my own experience have come to the

conclusion that the highest Sly. seas on the Atlantic are met with

here.

                                    OBSERVATORY, ARMAGH,
                                                    12 September, 1878.

       MY DEAR SIR,

       I Ihave been rather going about of late or would have

written to you before this at greater length.
IBefore got your letter containing the heights of the baro-
Imeter, had plotted the places of the ship, and drawn my con-
Iclusions.
            send you a copy of the plotting.

   I1 have represented swells by parallel pencil lines in the direction

of the ridges. Perpendicular to these have drawn pencil lines

in the direction from which the swell came.

                     Wind moderated to Force 2.t 5 th-
Vortex, morning of Fourth.

                                                           Wind raoden
                                                            Clauds breaking in ^

Storm -Diagram constructed from meteorological log of S.S. "Algeria,"
                       Captain W. WATSON, March 3 5, 1878.

S. B. ii.                                                                         10

146 TABLE OF THE WAVE-SYSTEMS MET BY THE SHIP

   I have also corrected the apparent periods for the motion of

the ship by the data furnished by Captain Watson.
     In the following table the first column gives the date ; the

second the ship's speed in knots per hour; the third the angle
between the ship's course and the direction from which the swell
came ; the fourth the apparent period ; the fifth the true period
as corrected for the motion of the vessel ; the sixth the velocity
of propagation v.w. of an individual wave-crest ; the seventh
the distance run D.R. [by the waves] in a day, in knots, taken,
in accordance with theory, at half the velocity of propagation of
the individual waves*.

DATE          v. s.        A. P.  T. P.        v. w. D. K.

3rd 6.0 p.m. 12 28'5       6-7    9-25 27-9          335

4th 10.5 a.m. 10 57'5 6-6 8-06 24-4 297

4th 1.5 p.m. 10 57'5       8-5 10-01 30-8 362

4th 5.5 p.m.  5      17'5  13-4   14-83        44-7  537

Later         5      17'5  13-8   15-23 45-9 556

The observation at Lat. 43 33' N., Long. 50 44' W. mentions

a confused sea from different quarters, together with a very regular
swell from W.N.W., this was at 6p.m. on the third. This dis-
turbance appears to have subsided, for it is said afterwards " the

sea kept smooth until 8 a.m." on the fourth which was at a
place about 140 knots from the former. The roughness on the

third appears accordingly to belong to a distinct disturbance from

that of which the very heavy swell afterwards mentioned formed

a part. The regularity of the swell on the third indicates that
it had travelled a considerable way from the place of its birth,

Iwhich must have been somewhere along a line drawn to W.N.W.
from the ship's position on the 3rd at 6 p.m.  shall accordingly

dismiss without further notice the disturbance on the third. As

neither height nor period of the swell at all came up to what

was afterwards met with, the disturbance which produced the

W.N.W. swell was evidently far less severe, though of course,

for aught we can tell, it may have belonged to very severe

disturbance, of which it formed an outlying part.

    * In accordance with Sir G. Stokes' theory of wave-groups, Math, and Phys.

Papers, vol. v. p. 362.

INFERENCES AS TO PROLONGED ACTION OF WIND  147

   I come now to the grand disturbance, beginning with the

observation of 2a.m. on the fourth.

     The S.S.W. swell which was encountered beginning with 8a.m.
on the fourth indicates a heavy disturbance somewhere in a direc-

tion drawn S.S.W. from the then place of the ship, a disturbance
in which the wind was from S.S.W., and which was supported and

increased by the wind for some considerable time.

    If this disturbance were cyclonic in character, as is probable,

and is fully confirmed by the subsequent observations, the ship

being considerably to the E.N.E. of the part of the ocean where

the disturbance was produced, the wind at the place of the ship

might be expected to be more to the south, say south, which is

just what was observed.

     Later on the swell increased both in height and in period,
up to 5.30 p.m., when it was at its maximum, and was of very

unusual magnitude.
     This magnificent swell indicated a severe and long-continued

action of a S.S.W. wind on a region lying S.S.W. of the place
of the ship at that time. The increase of the swell observed

from 4 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. I take to be due, not so much to an

alteration of conditions with the time, as to the ship's change

of place, her westerly course bringing her into a region where
she got into wave-shot of a more severe part of the cyclone.

     The ship's W.S.W. course took her gradually out of the region

of wave-shot of the portion of the cyclone where the wind was
S.S.W". and within wave-shot of the region where the wind was
westerly. The progress of the cyclone, which in this portion of

the ocean would be travelling in a direction N.N.W. or there-

abouts, would contribute to the same result. This accounts for
the " westerly sea running fast," which was experienced about

midnight.

The wind which had been S., arid had veered to S.W., about

4 a.m., backed to S., and became more severe. The ship was now
nearing the vortex. At 7 a.m. the westerly sea was noted as

going down. The heaviest westerly seas would now lie south
and also east of the ship. For a heavy sea requires a wind which

Iis lasting as well as strong, mean lasting as regards the same

disturbance, i.e. agitating the same portion of the ocean, or better
still following the disturbance at about the same rate as the

disturbance itself progresses.  Hence considering the portion of

                                                           102

148 NATURE AND POSITION OF THE STORM-VORTEX

a cyclone where the wind blows west or nearly so, though near

the vortex the wind may be stronger than a little further out,

still in the latter region the water would be longer under the

influence of the westerly gale, and therefore a heavier sea would

be raised than nearer the vortex, in spite of the westerly wind

being not quite so severe. Also if we mark the region where

the wind is westerly, the westerly seas will of course increase

from the west to the east of that region, and will travel further

to the east, as a westward swell, into a region where the wind is

no longer westerly. The same of course, mutatis mutandis, applies

to the seas excited by any other portion of the wind-system.

The change of the ship's place therefore accounts for the sub-

sidence of the westerly swell.

The ship was now very near the vortex ; but as the account

given of the wind by no means seems equal to the production

of such a severe S.S.Wly. swell as had been encountered, it is

probable that between the night of the third and morning of the

fourth, at which times the heavy swells experienced at 5.30 p.m.

on the fourth may be deemed to have been under the influence

of the powerful S.S.W. wind which gave them birth, and the

early morning of the fifth, the violence of the cyclone had a good

deal subsided.

The sudden shift of wind, the whirling motion of the clouds,

and the immediate change in the character of the clouds observed

when the wind had shifted, show that the vortex was passed, at

a very short distance, about half-past-eight on the morning of the

fifth.

     This is confirmed by the indications of the barometer, which
had been steadily going down till about that hour, when it began

to rise.

The described shift of wind shows that the ship had passed a

little to the south of the vortex.

What is said of the motions of the clouds about the vortex

accords very well with Mr Clement Ley's conclusion that the line

of vortex is not vertical, but slopes upwards in the direction of

Ithe progress of the cyclonic disturbance.

     On second thoughts send you my drawing, such as it
        it

                 it,

                                      if

                                            it I

                                                                                         it,
                                                                                                                     is,
rather than taking the trouble to copy it.     should be glad to

have      again, but of course      you think  worth while to take

a copy of  you can get one of the staff to make       or rather

to make a better plotting of the course of the ship.

          IMPORTANCE OF OBSERVATIONS OF WAVES AT SEA                                         149

    I think this example shows how much may be learned by

combining good observation of swells with the ordinary observa-
tions of other elements*.

                                                                        16 September, 1878.

MY DEAR SIR,

            I Idid not suppose that the cyclonic disturbance, as

Icalled indicated                       by

       it,                                        I
                                        Captain Watson's observations, was cyclonic

in more than a rough sense.                          did not consider                a regular
                                                                        it,
cyclone.                                                                         it

          felt all along that the westerly swell was what seemed to

fit worst with the supposition of regular cyclone. About mid-
                                        it,

                                                Ia
night on the 4th the vortex, as supposed                                     would lie about
W.S.W. of the ship. If the vortex were there, and the wind blew

in exact circles round                  the wind ought to be S.S.E., and the

swell, any, might be expected to be more from the south, say
if

S. or S.S.W. For though there would be, on the supposition, an

easterly element in the wind at the place, there would not be,

as you have suggested, an easterly swell. For an easterly swell

would be excited in a region where the wind was easterly, or

approximately so, and would increase from the eastern to the

western edge of that region, and then would travel onwards in

a westerly direction as an easterly swell. But the ship                              is,     by
                                                                                          is
hypothesis, already to the east of the region where the wind

* Further considerations on the forms of ocean rollers, and on their necessarily

irrotational character, are included in the Appendices added in 1880 to the reprint
of the Memoir of 1847, " On the Theory of Oscillatory Waves," Math, and Phys.

Papers, vol. cf. pp. 224, 228, 320.

    It may be of interest to mention that for such rollers as those described at the
          v
              is

                 i.,
                                     a
foot of p. 143, having period of 15 sees, and an amplitude                   of 18 feet, the
                                                                             a^
                                                                                 h

                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                     5,
velocity    76 feet per sec. and the length          X  is  1140 feet; and the velocity of

leeway due to the surface current required by the irrotational motion (Math, and

                                        /) 2         v      e           for  ship of depth
                                                         1
                                        (TrAh\                    r-rr
                                                            47TO/\

amounts to about of foot per sec.
;
                                a
Recent navigation statistics give the average period of N. Atlantic waves as

12 sees. the longest waves hitherto recorded were 2800 feet long and had period

of 23 sees. On the generation of waves by wind, see Kelvin, Phil. Mag. 1871, and

two papers by v. Helmholtz, Sitz. Berlin Akad. 1889-90. At the end of the latter,

reprinted in Wied. Ann. xli. pp. 641-62, Helmholtz's observations on sea-waves at

Cape Antibes are discussed.

150 SUSTAINED ACTION OF WIND ESSENTIAL

easterly. She lies west of the region where the wind is westerly,

and so far would be favourably situated for being exposed to a
westerly swell; but the difficulty is that she lies too much to the
north of it. However the wind at midnight on the 4th was S.W.,

not S.E.; and if we make a corresponding change in the direction

of the swell it brings it nearly right for west. To account for
this, continuing the hypothesis of a regular cyclone, we should

I Ihave merely to place the vortex some 50 miles or so further north
than supposed.  was perhaps rather led away by the assem-

blage of phenomena described as occurring between 8.15 and

8.45 a.m. on the 5th into supposing that the vortex was then close

to the ship, but a little north of whereas may have beenI it,
                                              it

further north than supposed.
    In my first drawing supposed that the ship was put back
               6

                 I
                      I
on her course at a.m. on the 5th, having overlooked the statement

that at midnight the ship had been put back, though at what

hour was not stated and though marked the line as crossed
                ;

out was perhaps copied instead of the line put in its place,
it

which from the dead reckoning proves to have been nearly right.
The placing of the ship too far to the north in the first instance,
in case that were adopted in the copy, increases the difficulty of

accounting for the swell from the west*.

         find  difficulty in accounting for the westerly swell on the

supposition
N. and S.,
I

               a
                                                                        is
               of a furrow of the form of a ridge running nearly

               on the east of which the wind                                S.W., and on the

west N.W., with a rapid veering through west as the furrow

travels eastwards, on the ground that a swell from the west seems
to indicate the prevalence of a westerly wind for some considerable

time over the same region of water or rather of disturbance, as

explained in my last. The wind as Captain Watson describes
"flew " from S. to N.W. Where he was, the interval during
it I

            it

                                                       is,

                                               it

                                                                                                                                                   ?;

                                                         I
                                                                                                                              a

                                                                                           it
which  was west was only one of some minutes half-an-hour

at the outside. This would not account for the raising of such a

sea from the west, even though did not approach in magnitude
to the grand swells from the S.S.W. experienced earlier. The
only question in my mind would a N.W. wind exciting N.W.

sea, followed over the same region of disturbance, after a brief
interval during which a westerly wind prevailed, by a S.W. wind,

produce a sea from the west as a sort of resultant                          confess

               * This was corrected in the chart, p. 145.

A LONG SWELL REQUIRES HIGH VELOCITY OF WIND 151

seems to me that, as the principal winds on this hypothesis are

at right angles to each other, I should rather expect a "cross,

confused sea."

    IWhat have written is far too crude for a paper before a

learned Society. Its chief use is to indicate directions in which

to pursue further inquiry.

   IWhat feel most confidence about is the existence, somewhere
Iabout the region where have drawn the arcs of circles in pencil,

and at the date of March 3 or thereabouts, of a severe gale of
Isome continuance from the S.S.W., or thereabouts.
                                                      shall feel

curious to see the records of the log of any other ship which may
Ihappen to have been about at that place at that time.
                                                        don't

know whether an ordinary route of ships lies in that region. A

S.S.W. swell falls in just as well with the supposition of a ridge

such as you have mentioned as with that of a more nearly cyclonic

disturbance. Indeed I felt all along that if the disturbance

were cyclonic, it could be only rudely so, the S.S.W. swell so

Ifar exceeded in magnitude that from any other direction.

could think of only one cause why a S.S.W. swell should be the

strongest in a perfectly regular cyclone, and that was that as the

cyclone would be advancing in a N.N.W. direction, or thereabouts,

the progress of the cyclone in the region where the wind was

S.S.W. would cause it to follow the disturbance it was exciting.

But the progress of the cyclone would be so slow, compared with

the rate of travelling of long swells, that this could not apparently

make much difference in favour of the S.S.W. swells.

                                                                                              18 September, 1878.

     Swells give some indication of the minimum violence of the

wind which produces them, in this way. It seems plain that

wind cannot increase an already existing swell unless it is
travelling faster than the swell is propagated. Now the rate of

travelling is known when the periodic time is known, and thus
we get a minimum limit to the rate of the wind which, though
possibly not blowing so strong the whole time the swell was

being raised, at any rate gave it its finishing intensity.
    A swell of 15 seconds' period would travel 52*4 English miles

per hour in deep water, and the velocity of the producing wind

152 A BRIEF STORM CANNOT RAISE A HIGH SWELL

Imust have been a good deal greater than this.        do not say

that the mean velocity over any considerable time must have

been greater than this, but at least there must have been frequent

gusts considerably exceeding 52 miles per hour in velocity.

Captain Watson's results with the anemometer did not give

a mean velocity nearly as great as 52 miles an hour, but then

I Ihe mentions gusts of much greater than the mean velocity. Still,

as far as can judge from the description, should not suppose

that the wind he afterwards encountered was at all adequate to

Iraise such a swell, and therefore it is that suppose that the

violence of the cyclonic disturbance had a good deal subsided by

the time its most severe part reached him.

   P.S. If Captain Watson is in town, I should rather like him

to see my remarks on his account of the great swell.

                                                                                              19 September, 1878.

   IThe difficulty feel about the hypothesis that the westerly

swell encountered by Captain Watson was produced by a westerly
wind which, though of brief duration at a particular spot of the

ocean, followed the swell it was exciting is that the velocity of
propagation of a swell of even as low as 7 '5 seconds' periods is
so great that, if the westward velocity of propagation of a baro-
metric depression be anything like as small as the velocity of
progress of the vortex of a cyclone, the swell would so enormously
outrun the transfer of the wind that little would be gained by
the latter in keeping the same disturbance for any length of
time under the influence of the exciting wind.

     Thus the vortex of a cyclone may travel perhaps 50 miles a

Iday, and suppose but you will know that the rate of propa-

gation of a furrow of barometric depression would be something
like this, say even 100 miles a day. Now a swell of 7'5 seconds'

period would, as regards the rate of the individual crests, travel

about 26'2 miles an hour, and as regards the transfer of the
disturbance half that. This would make .317 miles a day.

     Doubtless in the earlier stages of the excitement, when the
period was still considerably short of 7'5 seconds, the travelling
of the swells would be slower; but still, unless the westward

progress of the furrow were considerably over 100 miles a day,
the transfer of the furrow would not much prolong the time

IMPORTANCE OF DETAILED STUDY OF WAVES  153

during which the disturbance would be under the influence of

the disturbing cause.

    If captains were aware that the observation of swells at sea

supplies to some little extent the want of weather telegraphy,
they would take more interest in them. But so long as they
attribute them to currents, &c., &c., and not to their real cause,

namely the gales with which they (the captains) are so nearly
concerned, they will care less about them.

      Doubtless we want a good deal more experience to make them

available for weather forecasts at sea ; but we must first get and
discuss the observations in connexion with the other information

contained in the log of the ship in which they were recorded and
of other ships that happened to be in the neighbourhood at the
time.

                                                                  ARCHDEACONRY, AUGHNACLOY,

                                                                                                      1th Sept., 1878.

     Will you kindly send me, to the address Observatory, Armagh,
the heights of the barometer from Captain Watson's log No. 4289

from 1878 March 3, 6 p.m. to March 5, noon? The unconnected

heights will suffice. I merely wish to see whether they bear out

my notion of a cyclone, within wave-shot of which the ship came,

and passed near the vortex about 8J a.m. on the oth, by which

Itime however the cyclone had in good measure spent its fury.

        believe such observations of swells will afford very valuable
information, though not of a kind which can be easily expressed
in numbers.

  FROM W. FROUDE, F.R.S., DIRECTOR OF THE ADMIRALTY

                        EXPERIMENTAL STATION, TORQUAY.

                                                                      CHELSTON CROSS, TORQUAY,

                                                                                   17 Jan., 1873.

      MY DEAR SIR,

         I am very much obliged to you for the copy you have

sent me of your Memorandum on the Measurement of Waves*.

                                * Drawn up for the Meteorological Council.

154 PENDULUM EXPERIMENT ON ROLLING OF SHIPS

IIn particular am glad, for my own information, to have a copy

Iof the formula for the speed of waves in shallow water.

    At present it interests me because have lately been trying

some experiments on the rolling of two ships in a considerable'

swell outside Plymouth, when I was struck with the fact that the

period of the waves was evidently a good deal longer than that

Idue to their apparent length: which however (the length) was

not able to observe with much exactness, because it was necessary

to keep the two ships broadside to the waves.

     The results of the experiments (which were repeated on three
different days with somewhat different states of sea) include a
continuous record, on paper, extending over more than an hour,

of the rolling of each ship, the angles being expressed simultaneously

in two forms, (1) the angle between the ship's mast and the vertical

or the "absolute" angle, (2) the angle between the ship's mast

Iand the normal to the effective wave slope... which suppose is

nearly that of the "surface of equal pressure" passing through

the ship's centre of buoyancy: a correct time scale being also
automatically marked on the paper as it travelled.

     In one of the ships, the "absolute angle" was obtained only by

an observer who on a raised observatory perpetually sighted the

horizon with a rocking bar, the motions of which were communicated
to the apparatus below. In the other ship the absolute angles were

obtained, not only by the observer as just described, but also by an

automatic apparatus which answered extremely well, the basis of

which was a heavy fly-wheel (200 Ibs.) suspended by a hardened

steel axis on hard steel rocking segments (virtually parts of friction

rollers of large diameter), and which was altogether so delicate

that when its centre of gravity was so near the point of suspension

that its "period" was 75 seconds, if set oscillating when the frame
was steady it would continue to oscillate for 20 minutes, if started
at 90 from the position of rest. Thus if the wheel was placed at

rest, the frame (or the ship carrying the frame) might rock about

under it freely without putting it in motion, so long as the ship's

period was sufficiently short of 70"; in fact it was only 7'75". The

wheel recorded the ship's rolling, by a method which is easy to
imagine and which I need not describe, for the description is
Ialready overlong. All want to be understood
                                               is,  that there was

produced continuously in each ship a trustworthy and exact record

of the "absolute" and the "relative" angles, simultaneously, and

ROLLING OF SHIPS COMPARED WITH THEORY                      155

the difference between the two records is of course the wave

Iangle.                            give a sketch showing the
     On a separate piece of paper
Ifnature of the two curves, and of the resulting wave curve.
Iyou cared to see it would send a tracing of some of the actual

diagrams produced by the apparatus, but the resulting wave curve

in the actual diagrams is very complex (much more complex than
shown in the sketch), evidently consisting of several superposed
series of waves. Still it is resolvable occasionally into waves of

tolerably regular period, though of rather irregular profile, and

if the length due to the period can be deduced from the known

depth of water, the wave diagram could be interpreted in linear
dimensions: as it stands the horizontal scale is purely a time scale.

    At present the diagrams are under examination specially with
a view to the determination of the degree to which the actual

motions of the ships correspond with those which theory prescribes

to them: namely, that a given "relative angle" should impress

on the ship a righting or inclining moment of approximately the
same magnitude as the ship would experience if inclined to the

same angle in deep water, and that the accelerating or retarding

moment which the ship experiences is the moment due to the

inclination arid that due to the resistance of various sorts which

the ship experiences while performing her oscillations. The

resistance is experimentally determined by taking a diagram, with

the same apparatus, of the rate at which her oscillation becomes

extinguished in still water, after it has been artificially instituted

and she is then left to herself.

By careful graphic integration performed on the diagram of

"relative angles," by help of these data, the absolute angle comes
out with an almost astonishing degree of exactness oscillations

of as much as 16 off the vertical, when thus worked out, scarcely

Iin any case differ above of a degree from the recorded oscillation.
         am very glad you laid so much stress on the determination

of "wave-periods." For the purposes of naval architecture it is of

course a point of enormous importance: and considering how obvious

this is in reference to a ship's rolling, it is astonishing that it should
Ihave been left till recent times to pay attention to it.
                                                           am
Ihoping to be able to construct the self-recording apparatus which

just now described, in rather smaller compass, both as to dimension

and cost, than in my first attempt: and if so I hope the Admiralty

156 NAVAL IMPORTANCE OF PERIOD OF WAVES

will have such apparatus fitted systematically in all their more
important ships. The observations at present taken in the course
of service are practically worthless and the apparatus would give
results of real value; and a record of the wave-periods would be
one of the results.

I IIn the memorandum on the method of observing waves which

  Iwrote for the Controller, and to which you . refer, fear hardly
enough emphasised the necessity of observing periods. I had to

Iwrite it in great haste, and at the moment the experiments on

which was engaged led me to wish especially for some actual

information as to the height of waves in connection with their

length; since a knowledge of this, as involving a measure of their

steepness, is essential to the determination of the ultimate angle
to which a given ship will roll, either in synchronising waves or in
waves which in any given degree depart from synchronising with
the ship's natural period of rolling.... And accurate information on

the subject seemed to me to be even more entirely non-existent

than information respecting "period."

     But obviously it is easier to observe period than to measure

length; and in deep water, as you point out, the period may be

confidently relied on as determining the length.

     The concluding paragraph of your memorandum relating
to the observation of waves, the fruit of a distant storm, reminds

me to mention a fact or circumstance, bearing on the duration

of the passage of such waves from one place to another, which
is not generally known; for though very probably it is riot new

it

     is
           is

                       is

                  I

                                 it
                                                if

                                              I

                                                                                                            a

                                                                                                     it,
to you, it is just possible that you may not have noticed                                                      and

certainly important.

Primd facie, the speed of such waves would determine                                                           the
                                                                                                               are
duration of their passage over a given distance.

But this  not really so: because the foremost waves

perpetually dying out, as they invade the undisturbed water,

and are undergoing metempsychosis in the ranks behind them.

    It not easy to describe exactly what mean, so as to convey

a full appreciation of  to you  you do not happen to have

noticed it: perhaps can best explain the condition, by referring
to the train of waves which follows the wheels of paddlewheel

steamship.

    If we watch these, say abreast of the stern of the ship,

we see that they exactly keep pace with her: and primd facie

KETARDED PROPAGATION OF THE FRONT OF A TRAIN OF WAVES 157

one would expect that, consequently, if the wheels were annihilated

and the ship were kept up to her speed by some extraneous force,

the waves, having the same velocity, would also keep pace with
her: but on the contrary, though they would still keep pace,

as regards speed, the foremost wave would be rapidly becoming

smaller and smaller, and judging by what appears to happen
Ielsewhere
            believe that very soon the foremost wave would

have died out altogether; and though a train of fully formed

waves is coming on behind with the same speed, each of these

in turn would become less as it approaches the front rank and

would in turn vanish while at the tail end of the train a

converse action is taking place, so that the energy of the series

is all the while maintained.

   IIn my long experimental tank or canal here, have frequent

opportunity of noticing this in the propagation of artificially
Igenerated waves.
                   have not indeed yet investigated it quanti-

tatively*, because my hands are full: but at a later date when

experiments on the oscillation of models will be the work in hand,

I shall have to establish regular appliances for the generation
Iof waves, and the investigation to which refer will be com-

Iparatively easy.
        must apologise for the unconscionable length of this letter,
Ibut as it needs no answer, I trust you will not feel under any
obligation to read it through.  fold it up with this notice

outwards so that you may be on your guard at starting.

                   Believe me, Yours very truly,
                                                W. FROUDE.

                                CHELSTON CROSS, TORQUAY,

                                4 July, 1876.

MY DEAR SIR,

II am shocked that have left so many days, unacknow-
Iledged, your kind and interesting letter of the 30th.
                                                        have been

extra busy getting ready for experimental trial of her resistance

     * The explanation of the retarded propagation of wave-groups was given by

Prof. Stokes in a Smith's Prize Examination Paper, Feb. 1876: loc. cit. p. 146.
The attention of Lord Rayleigh had been drawn to the phenomenon by Mr Froude
some time earlier, and the same explanation had occurred to him: see Eayleigh,
"On Progressive Waves," Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. vol. ix. (1877), p. 21, reprinted

as an Appendix in Theory of Sound, vol. i.

158 RELATION OF VISCOSITY OF WATER TO TEMPERATURE

Ia large model (5 ft. diameter) of one of the Russian round ships,

and am now only scrawling a few lines in haste to save the post

lest my continued silence should seem neglectful. The information

you refer to will be most valuable and interesting. I was trying

some experiments with waves in our tank the other day, the results

of which in reference to this particular matter had made me intent
I Ito write to you even if had not heard from you.
                                                          have also

ome in contact with and partly investigated the curious fact that

the frictional resistance of water is an inverse function of the
Itemperature, and I wanted to consult you as to the bearing of my
experiments.  have already sent the .details to Sir W. Thomson ;

it is about 4 per cent, between 70 and 40, and then a much more

rapid increase as the temperature decreases to 82, this after allowing

for density, and counting force in terms of head of the fluid of the

Isame density.
         shall trouble you with a communication shortly.

              I am ever yours truly,

              W. FROUDE.

   I18" to 23" was the period of the rollers observed in Torbay,
Iof which wrote to you : they lasted 10 or 12 hours.

MEMORANDUM FROM PROF. W. H. MILLER TO G. G. STOKES.

                       " (Copy of part of a letter from Airy.)

   II am glad that Mr Stokes has made something of that

unmanageable integral* and should like to know whether his
method will assist to the following determinations:

     1. To express approximately in a function of n, the value
of m at the nth disappearance of light.

     2. To express approximately the intensity of light in terms
of m, when m is very large but not infinite as for instance by a
series proceeding by negative powers of m."

    * G. B. Airy, "On the Intensity of Light in the Neighbourhood of a Caustic,"
Camb. Phil. Trans, vol. vi. In the paper m is proportional to distance from the
caustic, reckoned positive towards the illuminated side. For later developments
of the Caustic problem, cf. letters to Mr C. V. Boys, infra; also Larmor, Proc.
Camb. Phil. Soc. vol. vi. Oct. 1888, and vol. vii. Jan. 1891.

         NULL-POINTS OF AIRY'S INTEGRAL DETERMINED                                                                      159

                CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR G. B. AIRY.

                                                            PEMBROKE COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.
                                                                                         May 12th, 1848.

      DEAR SIR,

           I write to reply to your enquiries, communicated to me

by Prof. Miller, respecting my approximate expression of your
definite integral*.

    I have found the following developement for your integral,

where OT is the required integral, and x ( J . = '9369 m nearly.

- - -J _i= [-1  i       /2                                     (,        1.5.7.11
         TT        cos        fl     TT\ . x                *  j1                               art6   +       . ., |V
                e       (                                                ~-
                            a? 2

         - --X*I 7T Sin I                                   _JL ( 1 . 5
                               8 7T\

                                        *'1.5.7.11.13.17                                        o +(  is ...}|          /(AA),
                                           1.2. 3. (48)3

These series ultimately diverge hypergeometrically for any value

of m or x however great. Nevertheless, when m large, or even

moderately large, the leading terms converge with great rapidity,

and two or three terms give a very close approximation to the

result.

        The series shows (assuming that the convergent part                                                                          0, is

really an approximation to the required integral) that nr vanishes

                                 7T     l,.ittl,e                                     .,    7T  3?T       07T           P-p.ut.t.i.ng

                            ~"T                                                       than                -^-...
for     values6 0,of  O*'            a                         greater                      ,
                                                                                                         ,
                (i                                                                                        8

                       2                                                                                 is

                   -J-) 3J
                               6
                                -f

                                                B,

                                     i

                                                      is
^x% = supposing to correspond to a root of the equation OT =

putting =                   TT where an integer and small, and

0.1extending to the third order, there results                                              13785
            ^-'~4 '
                        1
                                1

                                   -\ 4

                                                    ;

                                                    5

                                                                                   :
                        . -0281448                                 -0235614                                             /T>X
                              -;                                                                                        (1>)
                                                                                   r~

     *  The integral  isf/-co                                                                             See G. G. Stokes,
                      is       cos i?r (io*-w)                 div,  cf.              preceding page.

                        Jo
                ;
                                  I

                                                         a
"On the Numerical Calculation of class of Definite Integrals and Infinite Series,"

Camb. Phil. Trans, vol. ix., read Mar. 11, 1850, Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. ii.

pp. 329357 and subsequent memoirs.

160 ASYMPTOTIC EXPANSIONS FOR VARIOUS INTEGRALS
and then m is known from

The series (A) fails altogether for small values of x or m

so that the formula (B) is not competent to decide whether the

vanishing point corresponding to any value of i corresponds

to the ith or to the (i + l)th, (i + 2)th... dark band. But your
i=lcalculation shows that there is no dark band till m = 2'48 nearly,
which corresponds to          in (B) ; so that i is the integer which

marks the order of the band.
I have calculated the first 15 vanishing points from the
Iformula (B). The calculation did not take 1^ hour.
                                                                                                     subjoin

a few results that you may judge of the convergency of the series.

   For negative values of m I find, writing m', x' for m, x, so

that m', x are positive,

                      _u\L 1.5 ,_ 1.5.7.11                                                           )

                                                         1 . 2 . 48 2

The leading term in the expression for the intensity is

                                                                                                  o

                                 .,*! 4,

for m positive,

                          \(^~\\-2LtnllVV)~-i p- 27r\0/
I
   IIfor m negative.

                       Ie
                            I

                                                                                               {/

                                                                  (i~7

                                                         it ,

                                                           I
have not as yet assigned a limit to the error committed in

stopping at any term, but     hope to be able to do so.                                              am

however at present occupied with other investigations.

          have applied a similar method to the integral which you

have tabulated up to = 10 in the Phil. Mag. for January 1841.

am nearly .sure the method will apply to the integral which

occurs in the case of a circular hole in front of the object-glass

of a telescope. Indeed believe that will apply to a variety

of integrals of that nature, which are interesting from their

occurring in physical problems.

                 Believe me, dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                                                         G. G. STOKES.

G. B. Airy, Esq., Astronomer Royal.

            ULTIMATE INSTABILITY OF WAVES OF SOUND                                                    161

                      (From memory)

                                                                                            Aug. 3, '48.

   IP.S. To turn to quite a different subject may ask if you

   have considered the difficulty which Prof. Challis has raised with

   reference to plane waves of sound, a difficulty which turns on the

   interpretation of a first integral of the equation which determines
   It was some time before
                                     could satisfy myself as to the
.  <f>
      ?

                    I

                                I
                                   iIf
   interpretation*. had some thoughts of sending my views on this
   one point alone to the Phil. Mag. without entering into the

   discussion, but should not do so     knew there was anything

   corning from you.

                                     PEMBROKE COLL. CAMB.

                                                   April 30th, 1849.

   MY DEAR SIR,

I             write at present chiefly to explain what led me to
         I
   adopt the reasoning which  communicated to you respecting
                      I
   F(\/r).               is I

                                              is
                                                             X,

                                                  \a
   From the general tone of your preceding letter, in which you

   spoke of the interference as independent of without using any

   qualification, and from your reference to a geometrical caustic, which

      probably misunderstood, was led to suppose that you considered
   the existence of a sort of interference sui generis depending on
   special dynamical conditions which may obtain in the case of very
   minute globules, and which characterized analytically by leading

   to expressions independent of X. It was against such notion
   that my argument was directed. It quite natural that on the

   one hand you should think of interference independent of when

   you meant merely practically independent, and that on the other

   hand taking that independence as an analytical characteristic
   of a class of interferences depending (according to my idea of your
   I,

     I
   meaning) on special dynamical causes, should have applied the
   argument made use of, and which had just occurred to me, to

   disprove the existence of such class of interferences.

       * Viz. that the wave ultimately becomes bore. G. G. Stokes, " On difficulty
   in the theory of sound," Phil. Mag. Nov. 1848 Math, and Phys. Papers, yol. ii.
   1880, pp. 51 55, with added note in partial correction.
                              a

                                         a
                                                    ;

                                                                                               a

   S. B. II.                                                                                      11

162 THEORY OF DIFFRACTION BY SMALL SPHERES

     With respect now to the calculation of the interference which

Itakes place in the case of very minute globules, we must, think,

in that case have direct recourse to the dynamical equations of
Imotion.
              feel very strongly convinced that the ether must be

treated as an incompressible elastic solid. The equations of motion

of such a solid are very difficult to manage. The present case of

            is
                is,
                                                                     a
interference  however, not directly question of polarization,

and there little doubt that the behaviour would in the main

be the same as for sound.

     With this simplification, namely the using the equations
of motion of an elastic fluid, or of two such fluids, one forming

the small sphere and the other the surrounding media, instead

of the equations of motion of elastic solids, feel almost certain
                                                                        I
that the problem will admit of ready solution                           be very small
                                                                            if
                                                                               r

                                                                                    I
compared with X.  feel little doubt that the analytical result
I
   I
                    I

                                  if
can be obtained independently of the latter restriction, but cannot

well perceive what difficulties the reduction to numbers, or even
the discussion of the result, may in that case present*.

          hope to be soon able to attack the problem, and shall
communicate to you the results of my investigation. Meanwhile

  feel almost certain that r be extremely small compared with
                                                                        I

                                                                                     X,

we shall at a considerable distance from the centre of the sphere
have a disturbance in which the component of vibration varies,

along a given radius vector, inversely as the distance, and at a

given distance varies as the cosine of the angle between the radius
vector and the direction of original propagation, the phase being

the same in different directions at the same distance from the

centre.

                  am, dear Sir, Yours very truly,
                  I

                                                                                                          a
                                                                        G. G. STOKES.

G. B. Airy, Esq.

     * See calculations by Lord Rayleigh, " On the Acoustic Shadow of Sphere,"
Phil. Trans. 1904. On the simpler case see Prof. Stokes' memoir of Nov. 1849,

" On the Dynamical Theory of Diffraction."

VOLUME DISTRIBUTIONS EXERTING THE SAME ATTRACTION 163

                                        PEMBROKE COLL. CAMB.

                                                                                                       Oct. 9th, 1849.

      DEAR SIR,

         I I...Now that see clearly your real meaning proceed
Ito answer your question as far as am able.

     With respect to the distribution of matter within the Earth,

this much is certain, that an infinite number of different modes

of distribution are possible, while it is equally certain that not any
Imode of distribution arbitrarily assigned is admissible.
                                                              am not

able to give an analytical formula (containing suppose one or more

arbitrary functions with or without integral signs), which shall

express in the most general way the distribution which is admissible.

ISuch a problem has never been attempted in any case, so far as

  am aware. A very simple consideration will, however, serve to

show that other distributions besides those in spheroidal strata are

admissible.

Conceive the mass distributed in one admissible manner.

Let dr be an element of volume adjacent to the internal pointa it,

JP, p the density at P. Conceive the mass pdr, or any portion
of removed from the element dr and distributed uniformly

over spherical shell having P for centre, or over any finite or

infinite number of such shells, the largest of all the shells lying

wholly within the Earth. Let all or any number of the elements

of mass be treated in the same way. Since the attraction on an

external particle remains unaltered, the new distribution will be

admissible equally with the first; yet          evident that the first
                                        it      if
                                            is

distribution were in spheroidal strata the second need not be.

By this redistribution of elements of mass in spherical strata,

and the converse, we may pass in a very general way from one

possible distribution to another: but whether this mode of passage

   the most general possible, so that of two admissible distributions
either may be derived from the other by redistribution in spherical
is

                        it

                    I
shells, repeated, may be, indefinitely, am quite unable to say*.
                                        aI
                            am, dear Sir, Yours very truly,
                                                        G. G. STOKES.

    * Prof. Stokes recurred to this subject later, in series of letters to Lord Kelvin.
Prof. Stokes' memoirs on Clairaut's theorem belong to this year.

                                                              112

164 SUMNER'S METHOD IN NAVIGATION

                                             CAMBRIDGE.

                                             14th April, 1871.

    I don't think there is any difference between us except

as to what we suppose Sir Wm Thomson's object to have been,,

which you take to have been increased accuracy and I take to

have been increased convenience.

   I am well aware that the determination of absolute time

by lunar distances is subject to far greater error than that of local

time by altitudes, inasmuch as the angular velocity of the body

the place of which determines the time would in the one case be

that of the moon in her orbit and in the other that of the Earth

round its axis, and consequently that it is only in long voyages

that such a method would be resorted to now, whatever it may

have been when chronometer making was comparatively in its

infancy. Yours very truly,                   G. G. STOKES.

NOTE APPENDED TO SIR G. B. AIRY'S REMARKS ON SIR W.

THOMSON'S PAPER ON SUMNER'S METHOD, Roy. Soc. Proc.

Ap. 27, 1871*.

I[From a general recollection of a conversation          had with
ISir Wm Thomson before the presentation of his paper, do not

imagine his object to have been what the Astronomer Royal here
describes, but partly the saving of trouble in numerical calculation,

partly the exhibition, for each separate observation of altitude at a

noted chronometer time, of precisely what that observation gives,

neither more nor less, which introduces at the same time certain

facilities for the determination of a ship's place by a combination

of two observations. Of course the place so determined is liable

to an error east or west corresponding to the unknown error of the

chronometer; and doubtless under ordinary circumstances this

forms the principal error to which the determination of a ship's
place is liable. This remains precisely as it did before ; and it is

hard to suppose that the mere substitution of a graphical for a

purely numerical process could lead a navigator to forget that he

is dependent upon his chronometer, though perhaps the general

tone of Sir Wm Thomson's paper might render an explicit warning
desirable such as that which Mr Airy supplies.

                                             G. G. STOKES.]

    * In a further note on the use of Sumner's method, Roy. Soc. Proc. June 15,
1871, Sir W. Thomson undertook to avoid any possible risk by including an explicit

warning on the effect of chronometer-error.

           PERIODICITY IN SUNSPOTS AND MAGNETISM         165

                                                                                              September 11, 1871.

   IPerhaps, from want of separation of the two parts of one

subject, may have conveyed a wrong opinion of my ideas on
Simmer's method taken up by Thomson.

     1. This is Sumner's method. Observe the Sun's altitude

for time. Assume a latitude, or two if you like (but one is

sufficient), and therewith compute ship-time and longitude. Upon
your chart, draw a short line, in azimuth perpendicular to the Sun's
azimuth, of such a length that its meridian projection equals the
uncertainty of latitude (say 2' or 3'). That line will give you
something wonderful, although the uncertainty of longitude from
the chronometer-unsteadiness amounts to 20' or 30'. So says
Sumner; and Thomson as appears to me backs him.

    2. As to the calculation of the spherical triangle, if Sir W.

Thomson can put this by tables into a convenient form he will be
doing a great service to navigation. But this has nothing to do
with Sumner's specialite; it applies to every case of determination
of time at ship from altitude.

                 I am, my dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                                                             G. B. AIRY.

                                      March 27th, 1872.

MY DEAR SIR,

           I have sent to Mr White my paper on the 26-day period
Iof magnetism. I propose it for the Proceedings:
                                                  will bring
diagrams to illustrate it. It is curious that in 1870, Hornstein's*

year, the law in question is well marked at Greenwich, and there

is not a trace of it in other years.

Mr Glaisher has confronted 100 years' sun-spots with corre-

Isponding temperatures, apparently destroying the supposed
relation.  have urged him to get the comparison into shape.

Do you think it would be practicable so to modify the time

of publication and the spirit of the Proceedings that they could

     * Hornsteiu announced a terrestrial magnetic inequality having the period of
the Sun's rotation ; referred to by Maxwell, Electricity and Magnetism. Its
existence is now considered to be doubtful.

166 PUBLICATIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY

be available for the insertion of irregular physical science ? For
instance, the great Aurora of Feb. 4, and the unparalleled magnetic
disturbance which accompanied it. The French have opportunity
of this in the Comptes Rendus. In England we have only Nature.

I think we want a weekly publication, not interrupted by the

Society's holidays, and not strictly confined to the presentations

at its meetings. I am, my dear Sir, Yours most truly,

                                                         G. B. AIRY.

                  LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.
                                16th March, 1872.

As to the optical action of magnetism, experiment proves

/that there is asymmetry somewhere : neither of us places it in

the light : you place it in the medium, place it in the force.
In one sense we both place it in the medium, namely, that the

immediate action is that of an asymmetric medium on light

but why is the medium asymmetric?  You say asymmetry

/pre-existed, and is brought into evidence by the action of a
symmetric force;  say symmetry pre-existed, or [may] have

pre-existed, and asymmetry is produced by the action of an

Iasymmetric force. Why do say this ?

This effect, like all other effects of magnetic force, is absolutely

the same whether the magnetic force be produced by a permanent

magnet, or by a galvanic current, or by a temporary magnet, or

by a mixture of a galvanic current and temporary magnet as in

an electro-magnet* It would be perfectly unreasonable therefore

to attribute the effect to utterly different causes in these different

cases to a pre-existing asymmetry of the medium in one case, to

something independent of any pre-existing asymmetry of the

medium in the other. Now in the galvanic case we have in the

environment of the medium through which the light passes (and

which we may suppose to be water or glass) a plain and palpable
seat of asymmetry, and therefore it would be a gratuitous multipli-

cation of the causes of natural phenomena, opposed to Newton's

first regula philosophandi, to assume, absolutely without other

evidence, the existence, in the medium in its natural state, of an

asymmetry of the kind required.

    You write as if the effect were capable of exhibition only in

INFERENCE FROM FARADAY MAGNETO-OPTIC EFFECT 167

exceptional media ; I think from what Faraday wrote, the non-

exhibition was quite the exception, if we omit doubly-refracting
substances, in which it would seem certain a priori that we should

not get the effect, except perhaps when they were examined

exactly in the direction of an optic axis. And yet the optical
part of Faraday's work on the subject was rather rough. He used

lamp-light polarized by reflection (therefore light by no means

intense)   and a Nicol's prism.     With sun-light and a Jellett's
analyzer,                           the effect in every solution, and
           I should expect to find

uncrystallized solid, and crystal of the cubic system large and

Iperfect enough for examination.

    To this make one exception. It has since been found that

some solutions rotate the opposite way to what Faraday found.

If the solvent rotate the usual way, then for one particular

strength of solution the rotation would vanish, in passing from
positive to negative. And however refined the mode of observa-

tion, there may be a few cases of power of rotation so feeble as to

elude observation. But even Faraday's list suffices to show that

non-rotation is the exception rather than the rule.

   If asymmetry of arrangement, such as we suppose in your

hypothesis, pre-exists in water, glass, etc., how is it that we find

absolutely no trace of the phenomena shown by syrup of sugar, etc. ?

It is true that the optical phenomena of the action on polarized

light of syrup of sugar on the one hand, and glass under the

influence of magnetism on the other, are very different as regards
the relation to difference of directions ; but the kind of asymmetry
that is required to pre-exist in glass or water in your view, to

render explicable the production of the known phenomena by

the action of a force assumed not to be asymmetric, is precisely

what we require to explain the known phenomena of syrup of

sugar in its natural state, i.e. not acted on by magnetic force.

     As to the success of Poisson's view in explaining the action of

a magnet on a magnet or on soft iron, that remains as it ever did.

IThe law of action of an Ampere elementary current (as it is called:

but wish to purify the word from any necessary idea of motion)
on another such current is identical with the law of action of

a Poisson magnetic element on another such element, and therefore

one view will explain the action of a magnet on a magnet just as

well as the other. One is the mathematical equivalent of the

other, and we are perfectly at liberty to work on Poisson's hypo-

168 MAGNETISM OF ELECTRIC ORIGIN

thesis as we please ; just as in statics we may imagine the mass of
a rigid body collected at its centre of gravity, though we know

that physically it is not so collected. Doubtless if we knew

nothing relating to magnetism but the action of a magnet on
a magnet, Poisson's view would be the simpler of the two ; but
when we take in the discoveries of Oersted and Faraday we
cannot adhere to Poisson's theory (considered as a physical theory,
and not merely a mode of representing the action of a magnet on
a magnet) without a gratuitous multiplication of the causes of
phenomena.

                                                                                                  CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                            4tk July 1872.

     MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,

             I don't say that the Faraday experiment of the optical

effect of magnetizing a medium contains a mathematical demon-
stration that Poisson's theory of magnetism, considered as a
physical theory and not as a mere convenient and correct mode
of picturing to the mind the action of magnetic forces, is false ;

but I do say that it renders it so extravagantly and outrageously
Iimprobable that cannot conceive how anyone after fully con-

sidering the conditions can maintain it.
     You admit that a suitable galvanic coil and a permanent

magnet are mutually replaceable as to their external actions.

                     LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.
                                  3rd November 1875.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,

            I read to-day in the Phil. Mag. your remarks on
Sir Wm. Thomson's paper*. There is not a word, I think, that

Kyou have there written that Thomson would object to, except that
he would change your "perhaps" into "certainly"  is to be

determined by the conditions at the boundaries. And what he

     * Papers in Phil. Mag. "On Laplace's Theory of the Tides," elucidating
Laplace's work against Airy's previous destructive criticism. For references to
subsequent improvements and simplifications see Prof. Lamb's Hydrodynamics.

         KELVIN'S IMPROVEMENT OF LAPLACE'S TIDAL THEORY 169

has done is to prove (which Laplace omitted to do, and the
omission of which forms an important lacuna in what he has left)

that the particular value of K4 assigned by Laplace's process, and

that alone, satisfies the condition of non-discontinuity at the

equator, a condition which must be satisfied if the whole earth be

covered with water.
     In fact, what Thomson has done is to prove (what Laplace left

unproved, perhaps did not understand) that the process given by

KLaplace has for effect to pick out from the infinite number of

values of 4 which all permit of satisfying the general equation,
which general equation applies to all boundaries by parallels of
latitude symmetrical N. and S., that particular value which
belongs to the particular and evidently determinate problem be-
longing to the case when there is no boundary at all.

    I have not Thomson's Kfirst paper by me, and 4 have written

Ifrom memory, but think that is the notation.
   I say " evidently determinate problem " because the free

oscillations have for period one or other of what are practically
the roots of a transcendental equation which will differ in general
from the given period of the forced oscillation.

                     LENSPIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.
                                    IQth November 1875.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,

It sometimes happens that... difficult problems are

elucidated by the consideration of more simple ones which involve

the same general principles. With respect to the tidal question,
will you allow me to invite your consideration of a problem so
simple that we can turn it about and view it from all sides, and

yet which contains some of the leading general principles of the

other ?

Suppose then we had to consider the vibrations, of the nature

of those of sound, of the air within a very slender circular tube,

the air being subject to a periodic disturbing force. The tube is

Isupposed to be so narrow that any element of it may be treated as
straight, and the disturbance to be very small.  will suppose the

Idisturbance symmetrical right and left of the radius vector passing

through a particular point which will take for origin. Let x

170 FORCED OSCILLATION REQUIRES CONCOMITANT SEMI-FREE ONE

be measured from along the tube, the length being 2-Tr, and let

f be the small displacement along x, and a the velocity of sound.

Then, if there were no disturbing force, the partial differential

equation of motion would be

                                                                                   ~

                                           dP da?'

but if there be a disturbing force X along x, X must be added to
the right-hand side. Let X (which must change sign with x in

order that the equation may be symmetrical with regard to 0,
and which is by hypothesis periodic as regards t) be of the par-
ticular form c sin x sin nt. Then the equation of motion will be

         d*% =              ,d*%    CSmXSm                          (1) '

         d?                  d^^

The integral of this equation might of course be written down;

but as the equation is designed to illustrate one which cannot be

Iintegrated, will ignore the possibility of integrating it. Corre-

sponding to the disturbing force there will be a periodic disturb-

ance whose period is 2?r/n  and     which will involve sin nt or cosnt
or both. As the equation     (1)
                                    involves sinnt only, I will take

f = u sin nt, u being a function of x without t.
Substituting in the general equation, we have

         a  2  d 2u         +  n?u  +  c  sin   x  =                (2)

               -7-^

the integral of which equation, subject to the condition of symmetry
right and left of 0, is

                =           cas2ina?2i-f-AA si.n   nx               (/03).
            -nu                                     a

so that

            -c                                        nx
               sin x           sin  nt       .  si.n  a   si.n  nt  (4)
                 a2            n2      +  21

A being an arbitrary constant.

      Observe, that though the last term of (4) would satisfy our

equation if there were no disturbing force (i.e. the general equation

and the condition of symmetry) this term does not represent an
initial disturbance which may be superadded to that kept up by the
disturbing force. For a free periodic disturbance, recurring at
each point of the tube at the expiration of its period, must have

DETERMINED BY THE BOUNDARIES OF THE REGION                                                                   171

for period the period of the fundamental note of the tube or of
one of its harmonics, i.e. n must have one of a series of definite
values ; whereas by hypothesis n is a given constant not deter-

mined by anything related to the tube. The problem                                                 A         in fact,

from its very nature essentially determinate, and                                                       is,must be

properly determined.

Now must = not only for x                                              0, 0,  but also for X = TT. We
f

                       0,

get then from (3) or (4)

                           A sin n7r/a =

and therefore n being a given constant so that the equation
cannot be satisfied by putting

                           sin n7r/a =                                 0,

we must have

                                  -4=0                                                                       (5)

and therefore              f- ._c. sin x sin nt

is                                                                                                           <6

                                                                    c                                             >
                                                                                                                       ?
_the definite solution of the definite problem proposed.
     To what then does the arbitrariness of A in (4) correspond
Why (4) satisfies the general equation and part, but only a party
of the necessary equation of condition. Up to (4) inclusive, the
tube might just as well have been blocked at x = a, and at
x = + a instead of returning into itself. In which case we should
have the further equation of condition

                                        = when x = a,

giving
                           A

                                      (a2

                                                 c

                                               )2

                                                            a
                                                                      +

                                                                               '
                           ___ __                                       sin
                                                                       n sin na/a

and therefore  --a

                                sin x                                  -sin a sin nxla)  si.n nt.
                           n*                                              sin na/a
               ,
                            (

                                                             :
                                                                            ,
                                                                                  !
                                                                              t

When a= TT we fall back on the former solution applying to a
tube returning to itself, which, on account of the symmetry with

respect to     as good as blocking at x = TT.
            0,

               is

                                     I
Now the simple sound problem have discussed analogous
                                                                                                   is

in its leading features to the more complicated tidal problem
about which Laplace and you and Thomson have written. The

172 ANALOGY WITH LAPLACE'S TIDAL PROBLEM

assumption that the disturbance must depend on the cosine of
double the hour angle, as we know the disturbing force does, is

Ithe analogue (if may use the word) of the assumption in the

tube problem that the disturbance depends on the sine or cosine

of nt\ it therefore binds down the disturbance to have for its
period half a day, and thereby sets aside the free periodic dis-

turbances, which have periods determined by the roots of a certain
transcendental equation periods which are the analogues of the

periods of the fundamental note of the tube and its harmonics.
(2) is the analogue of the tidal equation numbered (2) in

Thomson's first paper; (3) with its one arbitrary constant A is

K Xthe analogue of Thomson's (3) with 2 given by (4), (i.e. 2 = H),
K KKI arbitrary and the other K's determined in terms of K.2 (= H),

and by (5). The constant 4 , up to this point arbitrary, is the

analogue of A which so far is arbitrary in the sound problem,

Kthough K4 like A must be determined before the solution is

complete. The equation 4/K2 = Laplace's continued fraction is

the analogue of A =0, and just as A = and that value alone

reduces (3) which in general contains two circular functions in x
to a special form which contains but one, so, as Thomson has

Kproved, Laplace's value of 4 and that alone reduces the integral
Kwith one arbitrary constant 4 from a form in which the differen-

tial coefficient of the height with respect to the latitude is finite
at the equator to one in which the same differential coefficient

= at the equator ; and at the same time reduces the series from

a form in which the coefficients of the powers of x2 taken by
themselves form a series of only neutral convergence to one in
which they converge with great rapidity, at least in the higher

orders. It is conceivable that if we knew less than we do about

differential equations we might be able to get the special integral

of simpler form u =  ^ of (2) though unable to get the more

general integral (3), which special integral applies as we have seen
to what may be regarded as the case of greatest dignity when there

K,is no barrier at all. So it is conceivable that Laplace's value of

though derived only from a process derived from the general
equation, may have for effect to pick out a special solution of
special form which applies to the case of greatest dignity, that of
an ocean without a barrier. And Thomson has proved that it has

this effect.

          CONVERGENCY OF THE SERIES              173

Equation (3) with A arbitrary is the analogue of your equation
with KI (Thomson's notation) arbitrary. And just as A may be
Kdetermined to suit a tube blocked at x = a, so
                                                 may be

determined to suit a sea extending from one pole to a parallel of

latitude. Only as Thomson has shown, the parallel must be on

the same side of the equator as the pole. Your method would

apparently apply to the case of a barrier at the equator itself (and
KHtherefore to the case of no barrier at all) but it practically fails
because the series by which  arid 4 are multiplied are of only
neutral convergence. If it did not fail it would necessarily give
K Hthe same numerical value for 4 :
                                          as is got from Laplace's

process.

P.S. Permit me to make a slight correction at the top of the
Ilast page of my letter of the 3rd inst.
                                          wrote this hastily (as
I felt at the time but it did not affect the general question) for

the general equation applies whether the boundaries of parallels of

latitude are symmetrical N. and S. or not, though of course the

particular process employed by Laplace and you, involving the use

Iof a series according to even powers only of the sine of the N. P. D.,
indeed might say  , could only apply when the motion is

symmetrical with respect to the equator.

                                                                                 PLAYFORD, NEAR IPSWICH.

                                                                         January 3, 1876.

    MY DEAR SIR,

            Now first I have to recall that my objection to Laplace's

solution was, to the solution of his equation as it is by him
exhibited. And this objection stands; and no greater condemna-
tion can be given to Laplace than your suggestions of vast lacuna?

which must be filled to give any meaning to his process.
     Secondly, the paper which you lately sent me appears to relate

mainly to questions of longitude in an equatoreal or parallel
canal (the Laplace question relating to latitude). This is worthy
of all attention. Now the following appears to me to be a point
worthy of consideration. The question of a circumfluent ring,
whether of water or of air, divides itself into two questions, vide-
licet : A. Is there a barrier ? B. Is there no barrier, but perfect
ring ? On these :

174 AIRY'S THEORY OF FREE AND FORCED WAVES

     A. The question of a canal with barrier is fully treated in my

Tides and Waves, the solution applying (mutatis mutandis) to
air or water, and requires no farther notice here.

     B. The forced wave exists; and there may be an infinity of
free waves. And these resolve themselves into two classes :

B! whose period is commensurable with that of the forced waves
(and which will cause strange but periodical alterations of magni-

tude), and B2 whose period is incommensurable with that of the

forced waves (and which will cause disturbances something similar,
for a limited duration, to those of B l} but never continuing their

similarity to Bj).
     What a mercy it is that friction prevents us from revelling

very deeply in all these complexities.

And thus end my tidal speculations for the present.

I ICan you answer me the following question :        produced

In my Tides and Waves, written, think, in 1837,

the theories of "Free Waves" and "Forced Waves," then sub-

jectively new and original to me. Do you know any place in

which they had been exhibited before that time ?

I am, my dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                       G. B. AIRY.

                       LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.
                                     4th Jan. 1876.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,

I am sorry that my bad handwriting should have caused
Iyou so much trouble.
                       rather envy you and others like you the

legibility of your writing.

   IAs to the little problem to which invited your attention,
I did not mean my canal to be either meridianal or parallel to the

equator. In fact the canal had no relation to the Earth at all, but

related to a purely pneumatic question, only bearing on the tides

at all in so far as both problems (the little sound problem and the
tidal problem discussed by Laplace and by you) involved the same

Igeneral principles as to the application of partial differential

equations. And thought that the easy sound problem, which

we can turn about and view from all sides, would be useful in

     SIMPLE WAVE-TRAINS IGNORED BY POISSON AND CAUCHY 175

throwing light on the more difficult and complicated tidal problem,

where we meet with a differential equation that cannot be integrated

in finite terms.

   IWith respect to your question as to what was known about

waves when you wrote your treatise, cannot answer better than

Iby referring you to my report prepared for the British Association

1846 of which had a copy.
   I have given the dates of memoirs read before Societies.

I have not mentioned the date of publication of your article
Iin the Encyclopaedia Metropolitana.
Iit was quite so early as 1837.                       hardly should have thought

                                            recollect Dr Whewell's speaking

                  think when
to me aboutis                               first came out, and he was not

             I iIt,
                    II
                           I

                                        it
Master till 1841, and did not know him till some time (?) after
that. Besides think should naturally have referred to the

various investigations which mentioned in chronological order.

    It curious that Poisson and Cauchy seem not to have

condescended to discuss the motion represented by                 single
                                                                  <
element of their own formulae. Thus Cauchy (whose treatise
                                                                      a
I    happen to have taken out of the library) finds (p. 62, eq. 54
                                                                              it
with slight change of notation)
     r3 aJ
   =l

+          /co fco

    1Jo my cosmxsiu\/gmtty(m)dm+l
           e
for the function which gives the most general small motion in two
                                            J
dimensions produced from rest in a deep liquid, and later on (in
the notes) he gives the expression in the case in which the deptho

is  finite and uniform. The differential coefficients of give the
pressure and velocity. This expression represents the most general

motion as the result of the superposition of an infinite number of
" simple harmonic " disturbances corresponding to different values
of m (i.e. to different wave-lengths), mean will so represent
when we replace the products
                     v,
                  cos               cos
                  sm.    '          si. n

                              /I
                                 .          vgmt

                       (mx)

by sums and differences, the disturbances being propagated in

A/f-the positive and negative directions with the velocity                        .

But he did not stop to discuss the nature of the motion in the

176 HISTORY OF THEORY OF WAVES ON LIQUIDS

case of one of these " simple harmonic " disturbances, but put out
his force in the difficult problem of determining the result of a
single splash.

               I am, dear Sir George, Yours sincerely,

                                                             G. G. STOKES.

                      LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.
                                   5th Jan. 1876.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,

          I have taken Poisson's memoir on waves out of the

library (Memoir es de I'Academie, Tom. 1, p. 1). In the preface
he gives an account of prior researches. Laplace appears to have

been the first to deduce from rigorous theory anything relating
to waves. In a paper published in the memoirs of the Academy

for 1776 he considered the case of small motion in two dimensions

in which the surface of a fluid at rest is deformed to a trochoidal
Icurve, and then left to itself.
                                    have not been able to find this
I I Ipaper, but think once saw it.
                                                           think it refers to deep water

only, and answers to what you would call a stationary oscillation,

which of course may be split into two representing waves travelling

in the positive and negative directions respectively. This was

about 10 years before Lagrange gave the theory of waves propagated

in water of small depth, in fact long waves.

     For small motion in two dimensions (he considers three
dimensions also), Poisson gives the following as the complete

integral  of the equations (p. 84)

               = 2B   -a ~ + e~ a (h~                    cos (ax + a') sin ct
               + 2B'                                     cos (ax + a') cos ct
                      a(h ~v + e~ a(h
          </>       (e (e

                             (h
                                   z)

                                                ) z} ) z)

where B, B', a, a are contrary constants, and

                                 _ah -ah

                        = 9j*^&>
                      *
                                         e
                                                     e

      Poisson and Cauchy don't seem to have condescended to
discuss the character of the motion represented by a single
element of their integrals or sums. They set themselves to
the more difficult, and in many respects less interesting, task
of determining the motion which would result from a given
initial disturbance.

    AIRY'S ADVANCES IN THEORY OF WAVES ON LIQUIDS 177

I am not aware that anyone before you showed so simply,

from first principles, the equality of the horizontal motion of the

particles in a vertical line in the case of long waves, or carried

the investigation beyond the first order of small quantities, or

considered the case of forced waves except in so far as it is

virtually involved in the problem of the tides, or examined in

detail the motion represented by one element of Poisson's integral.

It was indeed considered in detail by Gerstner (" Wellenlehre*")

but on a theory in some respects radically erroneous, though in

certain other features it was right, and accordingly in some

features agrees very nicely with experiment while in other respects

it is quite at fault. As the theory is not rigorous I don't count it.

   I Ihave lately perceived a result of theory which believe

is new that the velocity of propagation of roughness on water

    the water be deep, only half the velocity of propagation
is,

  if

                                                             is
of the individual waves. This                                    of importance in connecting

records of long swells which may be found in ships' logs with

records like those of Ascension or St Helenaf.

                                                                 Yours sincerely,

                                                                     STOKES.
                                           I
                                                                 October               1877.
                                                   is
The behaviour of those rings in the experiments of which
                                                   II Q
you sent account to me                                            .Gvery curious:do not see my way
           I                                                                     a 8,
through it.                            is

When was engaged on similar subjects, used a prism with

flat sides, and when need required cemented to the lower side a
Ifplano-convex lens.
                       you are engaged on diamond experiments

you will find some such course prudent, for in one or two touches

of the diamond the surface of the glass destroyed: the loss of a

plano-convex lens unimportant, but the injury of prism                                        is
               I
serious.           is

                     am, my dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                                                                 G. B. AIRY.

t*      Viz. expounded in "Wellenlehre auf Experimente gegriindet," von denis
Briidern E. H. und W. Weber, Leipzig, 1825. The theory examined in Math.
and Phys. Papers, vol. pp. 219229, Appendix added in 1880.i.

         Prof. Stokes elaborated directions for the utilisation of this subject in ocean

meteorology: see supra, p. 133.

    S. B. II.                                                                          12

178 NATURE OF SEICHES IN BAYS

                         CAMBRIDGE, lltk December 1877.

DEAR SIR GEORGE AIRY,

I was very sorry that you were prevented from being

present last Thursday when your paper was read, and also for the
Icause of your absence.
                         hope th'at with a little care the hurt to

your knee will be of no consequence.

The "seiches*" clearly point to some oscillation of a limited

portion of the sea forming a sort of basin or channel, and two

questions arise:

     (1) Supposing the water to have a certain swing- time, how
are the oscillations produced?

     (2) What is the channel, and what the nature of the oscillation ?
     As to (1) the case differs from that of a wind instrument, in

Iwhich a disturbance once produced tends to perpetuate itself so

long as the blast lasts, in a manner which is not think difficult

Ito explain. In the present case can see no such reproductive

element in the disturbance supposing the disturbing cause to be a

Iuniform wind, and am therefore led to look to a variable wind or

barometric pressure.
     Now the automatic registrations of the height of the barometer

show frequently in unsettled stormy weather fluctuations of a

      * These letters were referred to Prof. G. Chrystal, who has recently published

important memoirs on seiches ("On the Hydrodynamical Theory of Seiches,"
Trans. E. S. Edin. xli. 1905; also "Calculation of the Periods and Nodes of Lochs
Earn and Treig, from the Bathymetric Data of the Scottish Lake Survey," with
E. Maclagan-Wedderburn, loc. cit.), and is now conducting an experimental in-

vestigation on the Scottish lakes. He permits the following quotations from his

jreply:
     "The Stokes letters are, to me at least, intensely interesting. Every word is to

the point. He takes exactly the view of the matter at which I had arrived, and
Iwhich have been discussing with Shaw for some time back. The only point of

difference is that, in view of the experience of the intervening 28 years, we look

with more expectation towards the barometer and less to the wind.

    "It is curious how completely he anticipates all the points I have been thinking

over. There is, for instance, the question of the degree of isolation of an estuary,
which is necessary in order that Seiches may arise The phenomenon is beautifully
shewn incidentally in a diagram in Baird's pamphlet on the Indian tides....

     "Of course you should publish the letters. Remember that they were written

very soon after Forel had begun his work on Leman, when the subject of Seiches

was in its infancy. It is wonderful to see the keen intellect of Stokes cut right to

the marrow of the question....

    "If all the apparatus we have accumulated will only work together at some

favourable time, we may get at Loch Earn confirmation of Stokes' Theory."

ORIGIN OF SEICHES                                                                179

moderate period, such as a fraction of an hour, or a few minutes,

and such fluctuations would probably not be synchronous over
places as far apart as the two ends of a basin large enough to give
oscillations of the water of a period as great as 15 or 20 minutes.

     Again, we know that in a storm the wind is very frequently
gusty*, and accordingly the lateral force of the wind on the water

would be far from uniform.

    Now if at any time these barometric changes or the alternations

of stronger or less strong wind were rudely periodic, with a period
approximating to the natural swing-time of the water in a basin

such as supposed, the disturbing force acting for some time would

be competent to produce sensible oscillations, even though the

disturbance of the water produced by the action of the disturbing

force for a single period only might not be sensible.
     (2) The basin might be either a land-locked portion of the

sea, of such size and depth as to furnish the observed periodic

time, or as you suggest a deep basin partially isolated by banks on

which the water is comparatively shallow. The latter seems to me

the more probable, because on looking at the map we cannot pick

out merely by the coast-line a basin even rudely isolated; arid if

any part be deemed a basin which is in free communication with

the Mediterranean at large, oscillations cannot go on accumulating
in it under the action of a roughly periodic force, because almost

as fast as they were produced they would be lost, to the basin, by

being propagated into the sea at large. There appears therefore
a better prospect of obtaining a roughly isolated basin by means
of banks, over which the water is comparatively shallow.

     In either case there would be subsidence (in the basin) of the

oscillations, supposed produced and not kept up. by communication

    * "The limnogram gets 'gusty' too; that is to say, it acquires an embroidery
of oscillations of comparatively short duration, more or less irregular in con-

figuration and sequence. These may be due  to seiches of short period; (ii) to
is
                         (i)

                                      is
                                                                              2
trains of progressive surface waves caused by wind gusts or squalls; (iii) to wave

groups, i.e. interference of the first order between trains of progressive waves;

(iv) to interference effects of the second order between such trains. See Borgen,
Ueber den Zusammenhang zwisclien der Windgeschwindigkeit und den Dimensionen

der Meereswellen, nebst einer Erkldrung far das Auftreten von Wellen von langer
Periode an freigelegenen Kiistenpunkten in the Annalen der Hydrographie und

Maritimen Meteorologie, Jan. 1890. Observations on Loch Earn with the statoscope

have conclusively shewn that (ii) one vera causa. It now probable that the

secondary oscillations shewn by tidal diagrams are not all due to the same cause;

some fall under (i), others under (ii), (iii) or (iv), or some other category."

                                           12

180 ESTIMATE OF FORTNIGHTLY TIDE IN MEDITERRANEAN

to the sea at large; but if the isolation be pretty fair, the percentage

of energy lost by communication to the sea at large in a single

oscillation will be but small, and so if the disturbing force be

roughly periodic and of the proper period, an oscillation of sensible

amount may be produced.

To determine exactly the periodic times corresponding to the

different possible stationary undulations in a basin of given shape,

is a problem which in general we cannot manage. It can easily

be solved for a rectangular basin whether the motion be in two

dimensions or not.

     Probably it could be solved for a hemispherical basin, but

I have not tried. I should think it would not be difficult for a

semi-cylindrical basin, with the axis of the cylinder horizontal, and

bounded at the ends by planes perpendicular to the axis of the

cylinder, the motion being in planes perpendicular to the axis.

Perhaps it might be done for such a basin though the motion
were in three dimensions. I recollect a long time ago working it
out for a cylindrical basin with axis vertical. I did not publish
Ithe result because  found that Ostrogradsky * had already got a

paper on the subject.

   A propos to the fortnightly tide I made a rude calculation

to see how long it would take to fill up the Mediterranean, regarded

as a vessel filled through a small orifice (the Strait of Gibraltar)
from a reservoir (the Atlantic) in which the water stood at first

4 inches higher than in the vessel. I took roughly from a map

the area of the Mediterranean not including the Black Sea, and

Imade a rough guess from such data as could readily lay my hands

on of the section of the Strait at the narrowest point. By narrowest

I mean smallest in area, which is not probably where the coasts

come closest, as the water shallows towards the Atlantic. With

Irude data made the filling time something like three weeks,
I took no account of friction, but friction would of course increase

the time of filling. I should think the fortnightly tide in the

Atlantic must be distinctly, perhaps somewhat considerably^

greater than in the Mediterranean. I remain, Yours sincerely

* Mem. Sav. Et. iii. 1832, not much to the point. G. C.

EXPLORATION OF LOCAL BASINS BY THEIR SEICHES                     181

                              LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.
                                                Vlth Dec. 1877.

DEAR SIR GEORGE AIRY,

         I forgot to mention in my letter last night that the
I"seiches" at Toulon have a period of think 15 m.* In all

probability, in fact almost certainly, the basin of oscillation is
here different. The same basin would give a theoretically infinite
series of periodic times, the period decreasing indefinitely in the
higher numbers; but practically it would be only the simplest, or
possibly two or three of the more simple modes of oscillation, that

we need attend to.                     necessity of an approximate
                                       in order that the oscillations,
   I spoke of (i.e. wrote of) the

isolation of the basin of oscillation

supposed to be excited in any way, should not quickly die away
by communication to the water of the great basin formed by the

Mediterranean at large. (I neglect here the small outlets at

Gibraltar and Gallipoli, and regard the Mediterranean as a closed

basin.) Theoretically one of the possible "harmonic" oscillations
of the great basin, of a very high order, would belong to a disturb-

ance (or stationary undulation) in which the chief disturbance
would be in the local basin and its neighbourhood, and this

disturbance, friction apart, would go on for ever. But to produce

such an oscillation would require a continuance and regularity in

Ithe disturbing force which we cannot expect in a force depending

on meteorological conditions ; so that practically don't think we
shall err by treating the shores, except those in the neighbourhood
of the local basin, as being at an infinite distance, and regarding

the outward-travelling undulations as never to return by reflection,

but lost to the local basin.

     By means of tide-gauges temporarily placed for a short time
at a variety of places on the coast of the Mediterranean and its

islands, and by classifying the "seiches" observed, if any, by their

periodic time, it might be possible to learn much as to the localities

of basins of oscillation. I remain, Yours sincerely

* 15 m. is about the uninodal period of Loch Earn. G. C.

182 CONTINUOUS REGISTERS FROM BAROMETERS

                                       17 'th December 1877.

MY DEAR SIR,

I write mainly to acknowledge your letters of llth

and 12th. The theory of sea-waves in ill-shaped basins is so-

impossible, arid that in the best well-shaped basins so difficult,

Ithat am driven, nolens volens, to atmospheric analogies.

     Looking to the movement in an open-ended organ-tube,

I Ido not require periodic forces of wind, &c.; and am not

fearful that oscillations will be rapidly destroyed by the communi-

cation of the basin, at one end, with an open ocean otherwise

tranquil. And looking to the effect of the lateral holes of a flute,

I should expect the effect of laterally diverging channels to be that

of altering the time of oscillation (this, however, does not appear

Ito apply to the present instance).

    All this is very vague, fear unavoidably so.

Can you refer me to the authority for the Toulon seiches

of 15 m.? They have a bay of their own, or a basin of their own,

Iof which have no accurate knowledge.
   I have written to the Academy at St Petersburg, asking for a

self-registering tide-gauge on some island in the Baltic.

   I inclose some carefully-made copies of barometer-registers.

IThere seems to be no uniformity in the petty disturbances, either
from hour to hour or from day to day.  believe that you may

trust these records for time and for duration of oscillations, but

scarcely for magnitude; because the movement, impressed on the

plate which gives (photographically) our record, is mechanical, by

a float on the mercury and an intervening wheel-on-axle. For

perfectly reliable results in these small movements, nothing but a

beam of light passing over the mercurial column can be trusted.

I am, my dear Sir, Yours most truly,

                                                  G. B. AIRY.

PERIODS OF WAVES IN A RECTANGULAR BASIN                                  183

                      ATHENAEUM CLUB, PALL MALL, S.W.
                                               IQth Dec. 1877.

DEAR SIR GEORGE AIRY,

I return to Cambridge on Friday, and will take an early

opportunit}^ of measuring the telescope models.

   I hope also to write shortly pointing out what seems to me to

be the reproductive element in the disturbance of the air in the
Icase of a wind instrument, and which fail to see in the oscillations
Iin a basin.
I Iregistration.
am much obliged by the copy of the barometric
 hope to point out why conceive the disturbance

need not be more than very rudely periodic.

   I am writing to Sir Wm Thomson [to ask] where (if anywhere)

the results as to the "seiches" at Toulon are published.

                       I remain, Yours sincerely

                                 CAMBRIDGE.
                                          21st Dec., 1877.

DEAR SIR GEORGE AIRY,

As to approximating to the time of oscillation in a

natural basin by taking the basin as of some geometrical form,

since the fit must be a bad one at best*, it seems hardly worth

while going beyond the simple case of a rectangular basin which
Ifis to be made to fit the natural basin as best may be.
                                                          a, b be

the lengths of the sides, and h the depth, the series of periodic

times r corresponding to the different possible oscillations are

given by the formula

27T\ 2     j^rriemh_ e-mh    m2  =  ^2

- JT    mgy emhT + e~ mhj-           a2
                       when              +  62

ji, being any two integers either of which may be zero.

     This however would be a rude process, sufficient to give

a general idea of the magnitude of the time r in a natural basin,

but not more, on account of the rudeness of the representation.
But if we know the form it would not be very troublesome to

* Not so very bad in some cases. G. C. [Cf. his two memoirs, loc. cit.]

    184 SEICHES A FEATURE WITH DELICATE TIDE-GAUGES

    construct a model of       is it,suppose with sculptor's clay (Mr Froude

    uses paraffin), which after drying could be painted, or covered withis I

    coal-tar, and then filled with water and thrown into oscillation.

    The times in the natural basin and in the model would be as

    the square roots of homologous lines. However we have not got

    soundings enough, except near shore, to give more than rough
                                                            Ia
    representation of sea basin.aa
             heard this afternoon from Sir Wm. Thomson. He thinks
it
    the period  is  more nearly 20 or 25 minutes than 15, as had
  II
    supposed*. He says they (the seiches) are to be found not merely
    in the Mediterranean but at Brest and Portland, and he believes

    everywhere where sufficiently delicate tide-gauge       kept. He
                                                       is
    refers me for further information to Mr Roberts at the Nautical
                                                        I
    Almanac Office, who working at tidal reductions for him and

    Captain Evans, and has instructions to investigate them as far

    as may be from all the tide-curves he has. As far as can find

    out, little or nothing seems to have been published about them,

    except by M. Forel as regards the Swiss Lakes.

      must explain what meant by the reproductive element

in the disturbance of the air in a wind instrument.         I  have

mentioned the thing in my lectures, but have not come across
                                        aI
    in any book. Let us take for example pitch-tube giving the

fundamental note. How the oscillation kept up?

    The figure represents rudely the pipe in section, the blast

passing through            a   channel very narrow in one direction, and

impinging on        a    Ifsharp edge.  there were no oscillation the
                       is
blast parted by the sharp edge and the filaments of air would pass

      * 2' 1" about the uninodal period of Loch Tay. G. C.

SUSTAINING POWER OF BLAST IN OKGAN PIPE                     185

partly on one side and partly on the other and remain so parted.
Suppose now an accidental cause to push the blast a little
inwards. This would produce a wave of condensation; which
after reflection at the top would reach the orifice at the end
of a half period. There the outrush would tend to throw the

filaments of the blast outwards, and the upward-travelling wave
of rarefaction due to the mere reflection of the wave of condensation

at the open end would be reinforced by the wave of rarefaction

due to the outward deflection of the filaments of the blast, and

so on. Hence we can see how when the blast attains a certain

Istrength an accidental disturbance tends to perpetuate itself.
     Now fail to see any such element of perpetuation in the
oscillation of water in a basin, supposing the wind perfectly
uniform, and that leads me to look to irregularities of wind or

possibly barometric pressure as the exciting cause.

     In order to produce a comparatively large disturbance, the
disturbing force need not be more than rudely periodic of about
the requisite period. We may compare the oscillations to those
of a pendulum in a slightly resisting medium, the resistance
varying as the velocity, for which the equation of motion is of

the form

the integral of which, supposing the motion to go on indefinitely, is

       _*                     t')f(t') dt',

!x = / er9(t-t') s i n n ( t
     JW> oo

Ithe form of which points out what said. To take a particular

case, supposing the disturbing force expressed by a simple circular

function with a period ZTT/II, different but not greatly different from

that 2ir/n of the natural oscillation, then the integral would contain

a term with q2 -f (n n)'2 in its denominator, and if q be pretty

small and n' moderately nearly equal to n the term in the

disturbance will be much multiplied. When a disturbing element

exhibits fluctuations, the range of the period of which contains the

period which is required for greatest effect, the chances are that

in the long run we shall get several successive disturbances working

in the same direction.                    of the telescope  models.

   I hope to-morrow to send you measures
I remain, Yours sincerely

186 FEASIBILITY OF HARMONIC ANALYSIS IN METEOROLOGY

                                                                                          . May 6, 1879.

     MY DEAR SIR,

             Many thanks for your capital letter of April 3 regarding

the harmonics of diurnal temperature-records*. It really goes very

far to show that inferences as to the general laws are very fairly
mastered by harmonics. Long life to No. 3.

     There are some of Mr Ellis's results which naturally cannot be

reduced by such a process as the law when a N. wind follows
a W. wind &c., &c.

                      I am, my dear Sir, Yours most truly,

                                                G. B. AIRY.

                                             ROYAL OBSERVATORY, GREENWICH, S.E.
                                                                   24 July, 1879.

     MY DEAR SIR,

              Returning from absence and troubled not only by accumu-
lations but also by business-callers and progressive business,

I have little time to remark on your letter of July 11, except that
I think you have well established the sufficiency of harmonic

terms to the third order to represent the meteorological results
which you had taken in hand.

                       I am, my dear Sir, Yours very truly,

                                                 G. B. AIRY.

                                ROYAL OBSERVATORY, GREENWICH,
                                                 3 March, 1881.

MY DEAR SIR,

I I received your letter of December 31 in the country ;

  have kept it in sight, and have referred to it from time to time;

but business which seemed to demand my attention every moment
I Ihas prevented my answering it.
                                fear that what have to say

now will not be very complete.

* See extracts from records of the Meteorological Council relating to harmonic

analysis, infra.

MODE OF RECORDING SOLAR SPOTS AND FACULAE                                              187

      The objects, to which the correspondence (inclosed in your
letter) applies, appear to be these, or principally these : (1) The
nearly continuous photographic register of solar spots : (2) The
nearly continuous register of the sun's radiant heat.

    I1. suppose that the uses of the solar spot register are two:

(A) for the changes from year to year, (B) the changes from day

to day.

    Now on (A) we have a great deal of information, beginning

Ifrom Woltf, and going on regularly at Greenwich and suppose at

other places. On what they show, the best evidence is that in
Mr Ellis's paper on the comparison of spot observations with

magnetic observations. The exhibition (incidental to that com-
parison) of the numerical record of sunspots shows, in short

periods extreme irregularity, and in long periods an approximation
Ito order
              cannot call it a law of a rude kind, which cannot be

stated without leaving ample licence for departure from anything

like law.  The question (as regards the matter before us) applying
to this
           Is there reason for believing that we should approach
a

  it

          is,

                                 ?

               I

                                                                             ?

                                   I

                                                     it
                                                           it
nearer to order or law by multiplying the observations on the

proposed scale             do not think there is. Is worth the trouble

to keep up the present system  think is. It gives us, though

in very rude shape, a cosmical recurrence of much interest*;

and gives us the first grounds for thoughts on causal connexion

that might in time suggest distinct reasons for extensive observa-

tions in India or elsewhere.

    In (B) are such phenomena as the rise of spots and faculae, the
diminution of spots &c., the bridging across of spots, the changes

that go on in their spectroscopic phenomena, the definition of the

solar regions which they most affect, &c., &c. The record of

these, at Greenwich for instance, very imperfect. But                                  not
                               is

                                                I

                                                                it

                                                                           is
contemptible. There are to be found, on comparison of consecutive

photographs,               great number of instances of every result of
t
changes from day to day that can be suggested.                                  think that
                        a
until these have been well studied, with the view of ascertaining

how observations can be extended advantageously at home, and

on what points (very distinctly indicated) observations at other
stations are wanted, we should be wrong in undertaking series,
though in itself better, at a distant station
                                                 f.

                                                                                  a

     * Cf. Schuster, Eoy. Soc. Proc. 1905.       on Solar Physics,              Math,  and Phys.
         See extracts from Reports of Committee

Papers, vol. v. pp. 125 137.

188 UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE RELATED TO SOLAR ENERGY

2. The record of solar radiant heat, as a broad natural fact,

unconnected (at the present time) with theory, appears to me

well deserving of attention. Its bearing on almost everything

in human life is evidently important. And its bearing on possible
Icosrnical theories may be valuable, though
                                             would not act on

anything so vague, except in conjunction with more distinct

reasons. But there appears to be at present a difficulty as to the

mode of measuring. It does not appear, I think, that we have

a satisfactory actinometer*. Our thoughts ought first to be

directed to that instrumental arrangement.

In the mean time there is another mode of measuring the

radiant heat received by the earth that indicated by the deep-
sunk earth thermometers. The evidence of their efficiency, as
distinguishing the heat received in different years, and in different
months, will be found in the "Reduction of 20 years' photo-

Igraphic, &c., and 27 years' observation of earth-thermometers, &c.
at Greenwich," especially Plates IX. and x.  took the liberty

Isome months ago of suggesting this to the Committee on Solar
Physics ; and  take the present opportunity of repeating my

confidence in its value.

               I am, my dear Sir, yours very truly,

                                             G. B. AIRY.

                          LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                       12 April, 1881.

MY DEAR SIR,

                 Some considerable time ago you were so good as to
address a letter to the Committee for Solar Physics in which you

advocated observations with thermometers sunk in the earth, as

Ithe best means, if understood you aright, of studying a possible

variation in the amount of solar radiation.

    It was my intention to have written to you at the time on

this subject, but in some way the matter passed over.
     You have more recently been so good as to address another

letter to us in which you refer to your former letter containing

the above-mentioned suggestion. There has not been a meeting

     * See Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. pp. 137 140; also correspondence on
the design and performance of B. Stewart's and other actinometers, infra.

BUT NOT IN A DIRECT MANNER  189

of the Committee since the receipt of the letter last mentioned,

Ibut think it well that I should lay my views on the subject

before you.

     What you have published in the "Reduction of Greenwich

Meteorological Observations" shows how well the mean tempera-
ture of the air from year to year tallies with the indications of

the sunk thermometers, allowance being of course made for the

known laws of progress of waves of heat downwards, according to
which, for a given period of fluctuation, there is a retardation of
epoch proportional to the depth, and a diminution of amplitude of
which the logarithm varies proportionally to the depth.

     The inequalities of short periods being practically eliminated
by thermometers sunk to a moderate depth, the observation of

such thermometers affords a mode of ascertaining the mean annual
temperature of the place, involving so little labour that it can be
carried on without the staff of a regular observatory.

    It is true that the situation of the Royal Observatory appears

to be somewhat unusually favourable to observations with sunk
thermometers. Situated as it is on a hill with a gravelly soil,
there is little danger of the readings of the thermometers being

vitiated by the flow of water underground coming from some

unknown, and possibly distant, place.
     There would, however, probably be little difficulty in obtaining

Isuitable sites for sunk thermometers elsewhere, so that do not

think much of this objection.

   IBut do not think that any direct conclusion can be drawn as

to a possible variation of solar radiation from the observation of
sunk thermometers. The temperature of the air depends no
doubt ultimately on solar radiation. But more immediately it is
greatly influenced by the presence or absence of cloud, by rainfall
and evaporation, by the direction and intensity of the great
currents of the atmosphere which in our latitudes vary in so

irregular a manner. A summer warmer than usual in England

may synchronise with a summer colder than usual in Italy. The
weather so to speak, a very complicated integral of system of

differential equations all the more complicated in consequence of
the incessant conversion of stable into unstable equilibrium by the
heating of the lower strata of the atmosphere.

      So complicated the assemblage of the conditions, that do
not see that we have much chance at present of getting further in
is,
                 is ;

                                                                                   a

                                                  I

 190 IMPORTANCE OF DIRECT MEASURES OF SOLAR RADIATION

 a theoretical direction, in seeking to connect the weather with
 solar radiation, than we are carried by falling back on the general
principle that, if a system be subject to a periodic disturbing

force, a disturbance of the same period will be produced, which if

 the observations are continued for a sufficient length of time will
show itself in mean results, the time being sufficient to cause the

practical disappearance of casual irregularities. And even if we

had got the periodic disturbance, we could only infer from it the
length of the period of the inequality in the disturbing cause, not
the epoch. The difference in time between the maxima of the
disturbance and the maxima of the disturbing cause would be
liable to vary from one place to another, though not from one

time to another if the disturbance were regular. And the dis-
turbance, if we may judge by the visible alterations of the sun's

disk, does not seem to have more than a somewhat rough

periodicity.
      But there is one mode of observation which seems to me most

Ihopeful ; mean that of endeavouring to get direct measures of

the solar radiation by actinometers. By going to a place several
thousand feet above the level of the sea, and otherwise favourably
situated as to climate, we may hope to get rid of irregular obstruc-
tions of the sun's rays, and then suitably constructed actinometers
may give trustworthy indications of the sun's radiation. We are
still in the dark as to what proportionate part, of the total radia-
tion, any variation there may be in the amount of radiation is
likely to be represented by ; perhaps before long we may know
something more about it*.

                          I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,

                                                              G. G. STOKES.

     * Observations on this subject are now being resumed by the International
Committee on Solar Physics, with the aid of a standard balanced actinometer of
Angstrom's design, in which the radiation absorbed by one platinum strip is com-
pensated by the heat developed from a known electric current in a similar one.

HISTORY OF OBSERVATIONS OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM 191

                                 PLAYFORD, IPSWICH,
                                    October 11, 1883.

MY DEAR SIR,

        ISome days ago received the copy of your Biographical
IMemoir (Roy. Soc. Proc.) of General Sabine sent by you.
Ivery much obliged to you.                                am

                            will offer to you some notes, which
Iat any rate will show that take interest in your work.

     The early history of Sabiae's work is new to me. The first

Ithing which I knew was, his return from the elder Ross's Northern

Expedition. After this have nothing distinct down to his return

from the Pendulum Expedition and the publication of his account

of it.

     The scheme of a wide-spread system of meteorological observa-

I Itions was, so far as know, entirely Sabine's own ; and so suppose

was the magnetic scheme ; although in the first instance, before

the diurnal changes attracted so much attention, continued mag-
netic observation did not seem necessary. But the discovery, in
Gauss's School, of the simultaneity; to a great extent of magnetic

phenomena in different places, excited us all ; my first official

Iact at Greenwich had been to urge the establishment of a

Magnetic Observatory, and now took part in Gauss's term days.
IPersonally, have observed through the night, and have seen the
Irising sun glimmering on these eye observations.
                                                         began to
appreciate the importance of the phenomena, and I felt the im-

Iportance of continuous record. So at a Meeting of the British
Association was it at Hereford?  moved, and carried, "That the

Treasury be requested to offer a premium for the arrangement of
Ia Self-recording Apparatus." The Treasury refused.
                                                          then

personally made a similar application to the Admiralty, who had

a fund for scientific experiments. The Admiralty assented. The

result of this was the establishment at Greenwich of the apparatus

arranged by Mr Brooke, which, in its general features, has been

adopted ever since that time.

     This history is little known. The whole of the papers con-
cerning it were carefully bound by me in an orderly form, and

Iare preserved in the Record Room of the Royal Observatory.
  wish that I could induce you to consult them.

     In a short time Colonel Sabine sent two officers were you one?

192 SABINE'S WORK ON TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM

Ito look at the Greenwich apparatus, with the view, believe, of

mounting one at Kew.
I had been warned that Col. Sabine wished to keep magnetism
Ientirely in his own hands.
                             am aware of some instances which

seem to support this. But no sign of this was shown for a long

time ; till after a partial failure of some instrument-maker's work at

Greenwich he made a public attack on me. The failure had been

discovered by me, not by Col. Sabine, and measures for correcting

Iit were under consideration. There are printed papers on this
subject which  could probably procure. This disturbed our

harmony, but it has not prevented me from observing Sabine's

efforts and expressing my admiration of them when they came

under my notice.
    Among these was the grand collection in Philosophical Trans-

actions of the results of magnetic observations all over the earth.

IOn some occasion, after the exhibition of the last sheet, ex-

pressed my feeling that it was a noble termination of a noble work.
I Iwas told
               forget by whom that this expression reached
ILady Sabine's ear, and delighted her much.
                                             am very happy to

think so.

   I conclude with saying that, in my opinion, Sabine has left

a strong mark on cosmical science

                      I am, my dear Sir, yours faithfully,

                                             G. B. AIRY.

PHOTOGRAPHIC ADAPTATION OF GREENWICH REFRACTOR 193

        ADAPTATION OF TELESCOPES TO
                        PHOTOGRAPHY.

         To SIR W. H. M. CHRISTIE, K.C.B., F.R.S.,

                                    ASTRONOMER ROYAL.

                                               GLASTHULE LODGE, KINGSTOWN, IRELAND,

                                                                         August 16, 1886.

    A happy thought occurred to me to-night as to a mode of

Iadapting the Greenwich Refractor that is to be put to photography,

  hope it may solve the difficulty. It is to make the crown-glass-

lens of the objective extremely nearly, but not quite, equi-convex,
and to mount it in a cell which could be put either way in, the
difference of radii of the two surfaces being made to accord with a
calculated difference.

     For vision, the flatter surface would be turned outwards, and
the lenses placed nearly in contact. For photography, the lens
would be reversed, and its distance from the flint-glass would be
greater than before by a known quantity which would reduce the
chromatic correcting power of the flint to what is required for
photography.

     The separation alone would make the spherical aberration
positive, and the reversion alone would make it negative, and

if the small difference of radii has the right value these two will

compensate each other. Thus the spherical aberration will
remain at zero while the chromatic compensation is altered from
that suited for vision to that suited for photography.

   IThe focal length of the objective will of course be shortened

a little by the separation, but not think to an inconvenient

degree.

           August 17, 1886.

   I IWhen wrote to you last night, had not made any calcula-
Itions as to the disparity of radii in the two surfaces of the crown-

glass required for carrying out my suggestion : merely assumed
that it would be very small, knowing how very sensitive spherical
aberration is to an alteration of protuberance, without alteration

s. B. ii.  13

194 COMA IN TELESCOPIC OBJECT-GLASSES

of focal length, in the crown, and supposing that the effect of
separation on the spherical aberration must be much smaller.

I Ifind however that the disparity of radii at present have
Ionly made an extremely rough calculation must be far larger

than supposed, the proportion of curvatures of the two surfaces
being something like 6 to 5, or 5 to 4. This brings out a form
about midway between that which Mr Grubb employs and the
Munich form.

   IThe only disadvantage however that see in this form apart

from the sacrifice of some facilities in the construction and
testing is that it might introduce a coma into very decidedly
oblique pencils, when the more curved face is turned outwards
for photographic work. The absence of coma is nearly secured
in the Fraunhofer and Herschel forms, which are nearly the
same ; and in the crown equi-convex form, which is what
Mr Grubb uses, or very nearly so, the coma is not sensible, at
least with the small field you require for eye observations with
large instruments. But for photography you want a larger field,
and moreover the coma goes on increasing as you make the crown
more protuberant in front without altering the flint.

LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
               14 July, 1887.

I have not made any special investigation of the behaviour of

an object-glass in which the flint is placed in front of the crown.

I Ihave got a series of little lenses, crown and flint, which
Iordered for the purpose of trying various forms. A feature

noticed with these was that when the flint was put first, and I

was near the form of no aberration, the appearance on a screen

  I refer to a direct centrical pencil from a luminous point at a

good distance indicated that a section of the pencil by a plane
Ithrough the axis presented three cusps, like... [see end].
                                                             con-

cluded that as the form changed continuously, passing through

that of no aberration, the central cusp pointing one way became

imaginary, and the side cusps pointing the other way coalesced

into one. This is analogous to the alteration in the form of a

curve the ordinate of which presents the feature, maxim um-

minimum-maximum ; and then by an alteration of a parameter

REVEESAL OF OBJECT-GLASS FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC USE 195

of the curve the side maxima squeeze out the intervening

minimum, which thenceforth becomes imaginary, and take the

place of the three, maximum-minimum-maximum,  forming a

single maximum. And as in the case of the curve the critical

form of the parameter gives a maximum where the variation of

the ordinate is specially slow, varying ultimately as the fourth

power instead of the square of the increment of the abscissa, so in

the case of the cusps it would seem that the critical form in which

the three cusps coalesced into one, which is of course the form of

no aberration, or rather one of the infinite series of forms of no

aberration, might give a specially good concentration of light

when the circumstances differed a little from that of a direct
I IIpencil.
know tried three oblique pencils as well, but do
Inot recollect the result. Nor do recollect whether the feature
I have mentioned ran through the whole range of my experi-
mental lenses, or only through a part of the range. It would be
Ieasy to try again, but the sun is not now shining, and have some

rather pressing work on hand.

One would say from theoretical reasons that the same thing

must have been true when the crown was placed first, and the

direction of the cusp was reversed in passing through a form of

Ino aberration. The side cusps were not however in that case

experimentally observable : conclude that they were situated

outside the limits of the pencil which the lens transmitted, until

we got so near the form of no aberration that the observation of

them was impracticable.

Supposing the pencil not limited by the finite aperture of the

lenses, the forms of the section by a plane passing through the

Iaxis for the two cases would imagine be like this,

Crown first.                   Flint first.

                                        132

196 SPECIFICATION OF PHOTOGKAPHIC OBJECT-GLASS

                                                                                    14 July, 1887.

   I IPerhaps may as well mention, as was thinking of doing
I Iwhen wrote this morning, what have found to be a simple and

convenient way of finding the general construction of an object-

glass which you cannot or do not wish to dissect. It is to reflect

sunlight, or use direct sunlight as may be convenient, from a
condensed betim by means of a lens, such as a watchmaker's lens,
passing it through a deep blue glass, and receive the focus in the
body of the objective, which should be in a room at least partially
darkened. The path of the rays is marked by the phosphorescence
of the glass, which is pretty sure to be of different colour in the
different lenses, as the quality of glass would be different. By
making the focus travel across the objective, by moving either the
objective or the condensing lens, you can see by the lengthening
or shortening of the path within the glass which lens is of the
convex and which of the concave kind. The blue glass defends
the eye from the glare of the bright light, and enables you to see
the phosphorescence.

                                         9 August, 1888.

I think the choice lies between symmetrical images and

images formed by excentrical pencils, rendered sufficiently small

If Iand round by the use of a properly placed and properly sized stop.
         we go in for symmetry and full aperture, think the crown

is best placed first. The curvatures taken very rudely would be
Ifsomething like + 4, + 6, 6, + 1.
                                         we go in for excentrical
Ipencils, for the sake of a larger field, think the flint is best
placed first. In this case a stop is required. It seemed to me
as if a form with the first surface nearly flat was best, as giving a

better concentration and flatter field.

     Unless by further trials we can satisfy ourselves about getting

Ia good form for excentric pencils, am disposed to think it would

be safest to go in for symmetrical images, and if the defects prove

curvature and astigmatism are too great at 2 from the axis, to be

content with say 1'5.

HARMONIC ANALYSIS IN METEOROLOGY  197

EXTRACTS FROM THE MINUTES AND REPORTS
      OF THE METEOROLOGICAL COUNCIL.

          [From the Minutes of the Meteorological Council, July 16, 1878.]

                     ON THE USES OF HARMONIC ANALYSIS.

     Submitted The following memorandum by Professor Stokes :

      Meteorological elements may be considered and discussed
from two points of view. We may either contemplate the pro-
gress of the changes at any particular time, as, for example, in
tracing the history of a particular storm, or in endeavouring to
make out general laws connecting the changes of the various
elements, such as Buys Ballot's Law ; or we may seek to deduce
from large masses of observations regular fluctuations which
underlie the total fluctuations presented as the immediate result
of observation, of which last a more or less considerable part have
no immediate relation to the time, but in contemplating the
regular periodic fluctuations are to be regarded as casual.

     For the first object great accuracy is not required ; what we
want is to get a general comprehensive view ; and this is afforded
in a very available form by the published diagrams. Moreover,
for this object means are useless, or very nearly so.

    It is for the second object that the publication of hourly
results is chiefly, if not exclusively, demanded. Besides the more

obvious regular changes which have long been known, investigators
may wish to examine whether there may not be other regular
periodic changes which may be discovered by discussing a great
number of observations.

     Suppose now the results for each day were subjected to
harmonic analysis, and the numbers read off on the cylinders of
the machine alone published, we should have five or seven
numbers (according as the analysis was carried to the second or
third order) to publish, instead of 24. And the question arises
would the results be equally valuable for the purposes of these
investigators ?

198 PRINCIPLES OF PRACTICAL HARMONIC ANALYSIS

    Let x be the time on the scale of a day to one period, f(x)

some function of a?, the element analysed. The five cylinders of
the existing machine would give the values of the five integrals,

    fI f(x) dx, I (x) cos x dx, I f(x) sin x dx,

I f(x) cos 2# dx, I f(x) sin 2# dx,

to which would be added, in the case of a machine with seven
elements, the integrals

I f(x) cos 3# dx, I f(x) sin 3# dx ;

and the values of these integrals would be registered from

x to x = 1, 2, 3, 4, &c. periods.

     We may say then that we know the values of the indefinite
integrals taken from to x, though it is true that this is only for
values of x that are multiples of a period.

    Suppose now that f(x) is subject to a residual periodic

inequality, the period of which is either long, or not greatly

differing from 24, or 12, or 8 hours. Such a term would give
rise to a term in one of the integrals of far larger amount, and
of long period. The integrals would, therefore, lend themselves
singularly well to the discovery of such residual inequalities, and
to the determination of their coefficients*.

    For example, suppose the mean value of f(x) is subject to a

seasonal inequality, this will give a fluctuation of long period and

comparatively large amount in the registrations of the jf(x)dx

cylinder. This, or rather its excess over the product of x by the

mean rate of increase, might, if desired, be subjected itself to

harmonic analysis by the machine, taking a year for the period

instead of a day, and using those excesses for the function to be

treated instead of f(x).
     A seasonal inequality in a diurnal or a semi-diurnal variation

would show itself in a corresponding fluctuation in the integrals

/ IfI (x) cos xdxt  (x) sin x dx

[* Cf. Schuster, ''On the Periodogram," Roy. Soc. Proc., Dec. 1905.]

LIMITATIONS ON USE OF HARMONIC ANALYSIS          199

in the former case, and        fI (x) sin 2# dx

            /I (x) cos 2# dx,

in the latter, which would be treated just in the same way.
    A lunar semi-diurnal inequality, such as a barometric fluctua-

tion due to an atmospheric tide, would show itself by a fluctuation
in the readings of the

                 | f(x) cos %xdx and I f(x) sin Zxdx

cylinders. Having a period of about a fortnight, the period being
known, the coefficient could be got as usual, either numerically or
by the machine.

     There is one conceivable case in which hourly means would
give something that harmonic results would not give, or rather
would give only an approximation to.

    It is conceivable that, in the mean of a sufficient number of

observations to eliminate casual fluctuations, the curve of hourly
means might present a somewhat capricious outline. Such a
curve could not be exhibited with very close accuracy by periodic

series without going to a considerable number of terms. It could

not, therefore, be treated, except as a more or less rough approxi-
mation, by the use of periodic series at all, and, therefore, not by the

harmonic analyser. If, however, the failure to represent the mean

results obtained from the actual observations arises only from
those mean results differing from the mean results of an infinite
number of observations, then there is no real failure ; the harmonic
analysis does represent, so far as casual fluctuations permit, the
mean result, in so far as there is any use in taking mean results
at all. As regards the study of non-periodic fluctuations mean

results may be looked on as worthless. Such results, if studied at

all, must be studied individually.

    It is not proposed to put an abrupt stop to the publication of

hourly means in continuation of what has been begun and would
be looked for at the hands of the Council, but it does not seem
desirable to engage at present in any additional extensive work of
the kind.

       [From the Report of the Meteorological Council, 1879-80, pp. 3242.]

       DESCRIPTION OF THE CARD SUPPORTER FOR SUNSHINE

                                                  RECORDERS.

               Reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. pp. 5468.

200 DESIGN OF HARMONIC ANALYSER

               [From the Report of the Meteorological Council for 1878-9.]

     In the last Report it was stated that the Council contemplated
the employment of the Harmonic Analyser, invented by Sir
William Thomson, in order to facilitate the reduction and dis-
cussion of the photographic records of the seven observatories.
Having been satisfied with the performance of a working model
lent to them by Sir William Thomson, the Council have ordered
the construction of an harmonic analyser containing seven cylinders,

one for the mean and three pairs for the first three pairs of terms
of the expansion, to be executed by a skilful engineer in a manner
suitable for permanent use.

     The form taken by the reductions and the mode of publication
will probably be modified when the harmonic analyser comes to be
regularly employed; but until the instrument is actually in use
any final determination on these points would be premature.

                 [From the Report of the Meteorological Council, 1879-80.]

                                  [By PROF. STOKES.]

 I. MEMORANDUM AS TO THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE HARMONIC

                 ANALYSER IN THE METEOROLOGICAL OFFICE.

    It will facilitate the explanation of what is to follow if we take

a particular example ; but it is to be understood that the remarks
to be made are of general application. Let us confine ourselves,
therefore, in the first instance to the consideration of the daily
fluctuation of atmospheric temperature at a particular place.

      The main object of the harmonic analysis is the determination
and representation of periodic inequalities, in the example
chosen, the diurnal inequality of temperature. For this we should
subject the records extending over a considerable time, such as a
year, to the analysis, and thereby determine the constants in the

expression. But it is obvious that if nothing of the record were

 preserved for publication except this final result, the information
communicated would be extremely meagre. Not only would
stated fluctuations of the variation, such as the seasonal in-

equality, be passed over, but it would be impossible for a meteoro-
logist seeking after some hitherto unknown inequality (such as

MODE OF CLEARANCE FROM PROGRESSIVE CHANGE  201

an inequality with a period of 24 days or thereabouts, which
Professor Balfour Stewart thinks there is evidence of) to make
any use of the result. Again, though the harmonic analysis is
useless for following the history of the weather in all its details,
it is not without use as presenting a succinct representation of

the leading features ; but this would not be presented if nothing

but the final result were given.

     The temperature for a single day is not a strictly periodic

function. Even if we leave out of consideration those rapid and

apparently casual fluctuations that appear to depend on alter-
nations of cloud and sunshine, or on passing showers, the end does
not fit on to the beginning. If, treating it as periodic, we were
to repeat it day after day, we should be dealing with a function
which, graphically represented, would exhibit a succession of
curves all alike, but presenting breaches of continuity where the

end of one curve joined on to the beginning of the next. At the

place of junction there would in general be a sudden change in
the ordinate, another in the direction of the tangent, another in
the radius of curvature, and so on. Nevertheless, in anything
of settled weather the discontinuity would be much smaller than

the changes due to the normal diurnal change, especially if the

record for the 24 hours began at midnight, or at some other hour

when the sun is below the horizon.

     The temperature for the day, regarded as a function of the

time, may conveniently be divided into two parts, which we may
call the progressive part and the residual part or residue, where

the progressive part is a simple algebraic function of t (the time),
linear, quadratic, cubic,... according to the order we please to

go to, the constants being so chosen as to give to the residue,

or the residue and its first derivative, or the residue and its first

two derivatives,... the same values at the beginning and end
of the day. The function will thus be cleared as far as may be
of the effect of progressive change, and the residue will represent,
more nearly than the function itself, the normal diurnal fluctuation.

     Let the time-scale be so chosen that a day is represented by a

period, or 27r, and let/() be the temperature. The development
of f(t) in harmonic series will be, going to three orders after the

mean,

                      A + A cos t + A z cos 2t + A 3 cos St
                        + Bl sin t + BZ sin 2t + B3 sin 3t,

202 ANALYSIS OF DIURNAL OSCILLATORY CHANGE

where                       J4 = i            r  27r

                                                   f(t)dt,

       -iAI=   r 2n  f(t)   cos  itdt,              - /()i r2v  sin ^cft,

          7T  Jo                                 BI = 7T Jo

i being 1, 2, or 3, as the case may be.

The several integrals will be given by the machine. To get

the development of the residue we must deduct the development

of the progressive part. According to the theory of these series*

this will be got from the above by integrating by parts, and

retaining only the terms which are free from the integral sign,

provided we assign, as we may, the mean term wholly to the

residue. Denoting by A the increment of f(t) or its derivatives
i -in passing from t = to t = 2-Tr, it will accordingly be
aj cos t + a 2 cos 2t + a3 cos 3 + 6 X sin t + 6 2 sin 2t 4- >3 sin St,

where            at = A/' () -L A/'" (t)+ ...

    In correcting the constants A , A lt Bl} ... so as to get the
expansion of the residue, it does not seem desirable to go beyond
the function f(t) itself. This comes to taking as the residue a

function which would be represented graphically by the excess of
the actual ordinate over that of a straight line drawn parallel to
the line joining the extremities of the curve, and passing through
the middle point in the axis of abscissae. To this degree of
accuracy the development of the residue would accordingly be,

writing A/ for A/(),

                 A Q + A l cos t + Ao cos 2t + A s cos 3

       A/ +B +- A/J J7T                    -                               sin St.
              /  sin  t  +  \  BZ+               sin 2t     \ 3 07T
                                      .  47T

    The constants A , A l} Bl} &c. are given by the increments of

the numbers on the cylinders of the machine, and the corrections
are similarly given by the increments of the function itself,
supposed tabulated for the commencement of each day.

     [* " On the critical values of Sums of Periodic Series," Math, and Phys. Papers,
vol. i. p. 236.]

PROCEDURE FOR SEASONAL VARIATIONS  203

     If, instead of applying the analysis to a single day, we apply
it to n consecutive days, the increments of the numbers on the

cylinders, and also the correction for reducing the development
of the function to that of the residue, will each have to be divided

by n, A now denoting the increment of the function in passing
from the beginning of the first to the end of the last day in the

group. Supposing the days on the average much alike, the
increments of the numbers on the cylinders will increase nearly
in proportion to ??, and the quotient will tend to a limit in

which irregular changes from day to day disappear. The incre-

ment of the function f(t), however, instead of increasing nearly
as n, will fluctuate in a casual manner, and when it is divided
by n, the quotient will tend to vanish as n is taken greater. It

is only therefore when days are considered individually, or

grouped in some manner other than that of natural sequence,

that the correction for reducing the actual function to the residue

need be taken into account.

     The seasonal inequality of mean diurnal temperature, or of

diurnal fluctuations of temperature, may conveniently be got by
subjecting the coefficients, obtained as above, again to harmonic

analysis, the period being now a year. For this it would not be
necessary to take the increments of the numbers on the cylinders

for each day. It would be amply sufficient to take the days in

groups of 5, 10, or even more.

   If the numbers on the mean cylinder and on the pair of

cylinders of the first order, or what perhaps would be better, the
increments of those numbers, as likewise the initial temperatures,

were published for each day, and the numbers on the cylinders of
higher orders for somewhat wide intervals, the tables would pack

into small compass, and would nevertheless present a tolerably
complete and partially digested record of the march of tem-

perature throughout a year ; and if curves were drawn repre-

senting, one the mean temperature, and the other the coefficient
of the resultant of the pair of terms of the first order, the whole
could be represented to the eye, in its leading features, in a very
small space.

     The details of the mode of treatment and publication of records
to which the harmonic analysis is applied can hardly be fixed till
some substantial experience has been gained in the regular use of
the instrument, as distinguished from trials having for object to

204 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PRELIMINARY USE OF ANALYSER

test whether the instrument was in thoroughly good working
order. The above is given as indicating the general direction
which the changes in the mode of reducing and publishing the
records seem likely to take in consequence of the introduction
of the instrument. The same general principles which apply to
the discussion of temperatures will apply of course to the other
elements, but each element must be considered by itself as to the
features which it may be most desirable to bring into pro-
minence.

    II. SUGGESTED FIRST APPLICATION OF THE HARMONIC

        ANALYSER AND RULES FOR THE USE OF THE SAME.

   I think the first application had best be to temperature for

some year, say, in the first instance, to the records of the dry
bulb thermometer; but the same remarks will apply to the wet
bulb, which perhaps might be taken up next.

     The civil reckoning of time should be followed each day, com-
mencing at midnight. As the sheets commence at 10 a.m. and
go on for two days, the record of every second day will be
divided, part being on one sheet and part on another. The
readings on the cylinders need not be attended to when the sheets
are changed, further than to see that they are not accidentally
disturbed in the process of changing.

     The cylinders, being set to zero for the midnight with which
the work is commenced, should at first all be read for every mid-
night, and the readings registered. The mean cylinder and (in
the case of the thermometer) the pair of the first order should
continue to be read for each day, but, for the others, readings at
intervals of several days will probably be sufficient, as may be
determined by subsequent orders.

      Should a record exhibit a small or moderate gap, which can be

filled in by the eye with tolerable certainty, it should be so filled
in pencil before the sheet is put on.

     Should the gap be more serious, so that in the judgment of
operator it would be better to reject the day altogether and inter-
polate, the process should be as follows :

      Suppose that the record for the 7th of a month is rejected,

those for the 6th and 8th being good. Let A, B, G, D be the
hour readings concerned, as they would have been if the records

INTERPOLATION FOR GAPS IN THE CURVE                   205

of the three days had been perfect, these readings being those
of any one of the cylinders. The readings are those for the

midnights of the 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th, so that B A gives the
increment for the 6th, and so in the other cases. Then A and B

are read on the cylinders, but as the record for the 7th is missing

we start with the number B in commencing the paying off of the

record for the 8th, and at the end of the day arrive at a pro-
visional reading, say P. Then in default of the record for the

7th we may take the increment for that day of the number on

- -the cylinder as the mean of the increments for the 6th and 8th.

This gives B + \ (P A), P + \ (P A) as the numbers which are

to be taken for C, D, respectively. These numbers are to be

entered in the register, and the cylinder set by hand to the last
Ifof them before paying out the record for the 9th.
                                                      the gap

should extend over two days, the records should be supplied by

a process founded on similar principles.

   If the readings of the records of the subordinate cylinders for

every day should have been discontinued, the cylinders should be

read for the purpose of making the interpolation even though the

reading might not have been otherwise demanded.
     The preservation of the records on the cylinders not only

supplies information as to the element analysed, which would be

lost if nothing but the final results were retained, but also

affords the means of re-examining any step of the process where

an error might be suspected.

    A blank column should be left in the register for the subsequent

entry of the midnight values of the element analysed.
    In what precedes the applicability of the harmonic method, with

a limited number of terms in the expansion, is assumed. The

mean hourly value of any meteorological element is of course a
periodic function of the time of day. We know that any periodic

function may be expressed by a harmonic series, and the only

question is what number of terms it may be practically necessary
to employ. The publication of the " Reduction of Greenwich

Meteorological Observations" seemed to afford a good oppor-
tunity of testing this question in what appeared likely to be a
specially crucial case. The result of the examination will be seen

from the following letters to the Astronomer Royal :

206 PRACTICAL EFFICIENCY OF HARMONIC ANALYSIS

                                    LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                 April 30, 1879.

DEAR SIR GEORGE AIRY,

        I was greatly struck with the enormous amount of work of

which the outcome is embodied in the " Reduction of Greenwich

Meteorological Observations" which I lately received, and with

the very definite character of the results arrived at. My admira-
tion was not unmixed with some anxiety, lest after all the

Thomson's harmonic analyser, which we have ordered for the
Meteorological Office, should be capable only of giving results
which by comparison must be regarded as of the " cheap and

nasty" class.

   I Ithought, therefore, that would test its applicability in a
Isevere case ; mean of course the applicability of the principle,

the machine being supposed to be properly constructed, and to

work satisfactorily.

   I chose the observations of temperature rather than those of

the barometer, because the manifest discontinuity introduced by

Isunrise and sunset seemed to render temperature a more severe

test than height of the barometer. As explained in a former
letter, the greater the number of observations of which the mean

is taken, the greater the superiority, if any, of the method of

hourly means over the harmonic method is likely to prove.

These motives led me to select for trial the last column of
I ITable 50, page 38.
                     did my work pretty carefully, but have

      it,

           I

                    it

                            is

                       I

                                    it
                                          it
not revised so that  possible that there may be an arith-

metical error, but do not think at all likely that the general

conclusions would be affected.  went as far as the sixth order.

had contemplated going further, but did not seem necessary.
I
   I  determined the coefficients in the usual way.  may remark
                                                     I

                                                                     is
in passing that this does not give them correctly in the high

              is,

                                      I
orders. Each     by rights, given by an integral, which                  only

approximately represented by a sum, and in the high orders the

difference would be very sensible.            had some thoughts of

working them out correctly, but the high orders proved to be so

small as to render this unnecessary.t

      Denoting by an angle proportional to the time measured from
midnight, and going through its period in 24 hours, found
                                                     I

TESTED BY GREENWICH TEMPERATURE RECORDS                           207

-temperature = 49*69 4*280 cos t               - 2*722 sin t

                              + 0-883 cos 2t + 0-563 sin 2t

                              + 0-063 cos 3    + 0-119 sin 3

                              - 0-043 cos 4,t  - 0-014 sin 4
                              - 0-001 cos 5t   - 0-026 sin 5t
                              - 0-003 cos Qt
                                               - 0-008 sin 6t

For the coefficients in the different orders when the two terms

are combined into one we get

5-072     1-047  0-135        0'045            0026           0009

Orders 1  2                   34               5               6

    It appears then that the first three orders give the result

within about 1 per cent, of the whole diurnal variation. The
error would be only a few hundredths of a degree.

   I made an attempt to estimate the errors of the published

numbers, by which I mean the difference between the published
Inumbers which represent what called, in a former letter, the
Imean of fact, and what there called the mean of law ; in other

words, what would be the mean of an infinite series.

    For this I chose two months, January and July, and two hours,

midnight and noon. In Tables 38 and 44 1 took the differences
between the numbers in the midnight and noon columns and the

means at the feet of the columns, and regarding those as errors

I took their mean. The means were 2*475 and 2'500 for January;

1*610 and 1'710 for July; mean 2*074. As Table 50 gives the

Imeans for 240 months, divided the result by the square root of

240, giving 0*134. This, then, we may take as a sort of estimate
of the residual errors in the last column of Table 50 arising from

the finiteness of the series, great though it was. It is about

equal to the greatest value of the terms of the Order 3 in the

periodic series.

   I noticed, however, in working these figures that, on the whole,
Imidnight and noon went together, so that the "errors" that

have spoken of arose more from variations of temperature from day

Ito day, or week to week, than from variations within the same day.

   therefore took the differences between the midnight or noon

column and the last column but one, which gives the monthly
Imean of the mean temperature of the day.
                                               meaned each vertical

column, and took the differences between the mean and the indi-

vidual numbers, and regarded these as the errors. The means

 208 THE ACTUAL UNCERTAINTY IN HARMONIC TERMS

came 0'28 and O33 for January; 078 and 1'20 for July; mean

0-65 ; same divided by the square root of 240, 0*042. This is
almost exactly the coefficient of the fourth order.

    It appears that the harmonic method has come very well out of

its trial in a case purposely selected as being likely to be the most

severe. It appears, too, that we need not trouble ourselves to go

beyond the third order. The third order itself hardly emerges
from casual fluctuations.

     Of course the harmonic method would not by itself alone give
such non-periodic results as those represented in Plate 4, but the

modification required to introduce these is very simple.

                                                                                            May 10, 1879.

    I have made some further calculations in pursuance of the

subject mentioned in my letter of April 30, the results of which
you might perhaps like to know.

    From the numerical trials described in that letter, I was led

to infer that the uncertainty of the diurnal inequality of tempera-
ture expressed by the differences between the numbers in the last
column of Table 50 and the number at the foot of the column was
something like 0'04, and accordingly of about the same magnitude
as the term of the fourth order in the harmonic reduction. The

uncertainty I contemplate as arising from the uneliminated residue

of casual fluctuations, whereby the actual temperature at any
observation differs from the mean really belonging to that day
and hour.

    If we can only regard the differences between the means in

the last column of Table 50 and the ideal means for an infinite
series as casual, it is clear that the harmonic reduction when
carried to the third order will represent the result as nearly as the
latter represents the ideal mean that we are seeking for. But it
occurred to me that the fluctuations indicated in my former letter
might be fluctuations arising rather from the coefficient than from
the law of diurnal variation, in which case, though the absolute
mean of fact for any hour might deviate from the ideal mean to
an extent comparable with 0'04, the law of variation might

possibly be a good deal more correctly given. In this case the

harmonic reduction, as compared with the other, would show a

THE TEST WHETHER THREE HARMONICS SUFFICE             209

minute inferiority, unless at least it were carried to orders beyond
the third ; though the error is so small that it is hard to imagine

Ithat any scientific conclusion that could be drawn from the obser-

vations would be interfered with. Still, was desirous of ascer-

taining whether even a minute error of the harmonic reduction

taken to the third order, large enough to emerge from casual

fluctuations, could be discovered.

    It occurred to me that this point could be decided by taking

separate years or groups of years instead of the whole series of

20 years, expressing the means for the separate years or groups in

a harmonic series, and comparing the coefficients with those got

from the whole 20 years series. If the fluctuations indicated in

my former letter depended mainly on fluctuations in the coefficient

of diurnal variation, the law being but little departed from, the

changes in the coefficients of the several terms in the series

should bear some sort of proportion in magnitude to the co-

efficients themselves, so that the leading terms should be those
chiefly affected, a variation like one per cent, being insensible in

the small terms; whereas if the fluctuations affected the law

as much as the mere amount of diurnal variation, no such sub-

ordination of the higher to the lower orders in regard to the

changes of the coefficients was to be expected.

The published volume does not contain a table for air tempera-

ture analogous to Table 19, or better, to Table 20 for the

barometer. Of course it could be formed from the published

numbers by meaning Tables 38 to 49, as if they had been super-

posed and the means taken of the numbers that lay one over the

Iother. But this would involve more labour than was disposed
I Ito go through. So had recourse to a plan which practically,

think, suffices for determining the question, and which permits of

utilising an existing table.
I took Table 51 and made three groups of the months, the
Imonths of each group being equidistant.
                                          meaned the numbers

in each group or rather added them, reserving the division to the

end. In this way the seasonal inequality would be pretty com-

pletely eliminated, and the results would not much differ in

character from those got from dividing the 20 years into three

groups, and seeing how far each group agreed with its fellows.

IInstead of working with the actual numbers of the table, pre-

ferred taking the difference between the number for each group,

s. B. ii.                                        14

210 RESIDUALS BEYOND THIRD ORDER PROVED CASUAL

and the mean of the three. Subjecting these differences to

harmonic reduction, I obtained

                + 0-006 cos t + 0-022 sin t

                + 0-019 cos t     -0-009 sin t

                -0-025 cos t      - O'Olo sin t

                --f 0-014 cos 2t  - 0-004 sin 2t
                    0-026 cos 2t  -+ 0-025 sin 2t

                -+ 0-011 cos 2t      0-021 sin *2t
                    O'OOO cos 3*
                                  - 0-007 sin 3
                -+ 0-006 cos '3t  - 0-004 sin 3
                    0-006 cos 3t
                                  + O'Oll sin 3
                - 0-008 cos 4t
                                  + 0-008 sin 4

                -+ 0-016 cos 4 + 0-030 sin 4
                + 0-007 cos 4>t   0-042 sin 4

I have written  the numbers according to orders, and the groups

in the several orders on consecutive lines, so that the development

of the first group, for instance, is made up of the first lines in the

several orders. For the coefficients of the different orders when

Ithe two terms of the same order are combined into one get

Order           1        23                         4

Coefficient     (0-023   0-015    0-007             0-011  G. 1
                  0-021           0-007             0-034  G. 2
                         0-036    0-013             0-043  G. 3
                1
                         0024
                (0-029

     There is no such subordination of magnitude of the coefficients
in the higher orders to those in the lower as must have taken

place on the supposition that the deviations from the ideal mean

arose chiefly from deviations from the mean coefficient, not from

the law, of diurnal variation. The inference is that the small

deviations in question, amounting to a few units in the second
place of decimals, can only be treated as casual ; and as they are
comparable with the coefficient of the fourth order given in my
former letter, it follows that the harmonic series taken to the

third order will represent the results of observation within their
limits of error. The small coefficient of the third order itself can

only be deemed to be determined from the observations, subject to
an error amounting to 30 or 40 per cent, of the whole.

   I noticed in taking the difference of the group numbers from

the mean of the three that the differences ran very much in series

        SMOOTHNESS OF A CURVE OF MEANS NOT CONCLUSIVE 211

Iof plus and minus. They exhibited considerable regularity.

rather expected from this that the harmonic series would have
been most significant in the leading terms, but such proved not
to be the case. However, the regularity of the fluctuations
indicates that the uneliminated errors are not such as would be
got by the throwing of dice for the different hours independently
of each other, but that the fluctuations from which they arise
are such as extend their influence over several hours at a time.
This character, even had their amount been larger, would have
prevented them from interfering much with the smoothness of the
mean curve obtained, so that smoothness of curve is not by itself
alone a proof that we have got very near the ideal mean.

   I should mention that my Group 1 is made up of January,

April, July, and October, and 2, 3 are similarly formed beginning
with February and March respectively.

ADDITIONAL MEMORANDUM ON HARMONIC REDUCTIONS.

In the " Reduction of Greenwich Meteorological Observations "

there is no table of mean hourly temperatures given in which the

months are combined but the years kept distinct, though the

materials for forming such a table are published, as the hourly

means are given for the separate years and months.

Sir George Airy has subsequently had these means taken, and

has been so kind as to furnish me with a copy of the results.

I have now subjected these to harmonic reduction, proceeding as

far as the fourth order. The first term, giving the mean, was not

calculated, as it is given in the last column but one of Table 52

on page 39 of the Greenwich Reductions.      The values of the
eight remaining coefficients in the series,

in T+ ..

are given in the following table :

                                                    142

212 ANALYSIS OF MEAN HOURLY TEMPERATURES

   COEFFICIENTS in the HARMONIC REDUCTION of the MEAN
 HOURLY TEMPERATURES in the individual years 1849 1868.

Year     4j             BI        A*          ^B 2 B s ^4 #4

1849     -4-105     - 2-454       + 0-822     + 0-498      + 134  + -138         -068       --0-10333
1850     -4-316     - 2-753       + 0-817     + 0-524      + 101  + 136          -060
1851     -4-287                   + 0-907     + 0-512      + 064  + 117          -053       -005
1852                -2-728        + 0-936     + 0-643      + 046  + 106          -060       -049
1853     - 4-367    -2-717                    + 0-494      + 101  + 125          -067
1854     - 3-822                  + 0-753     + 0-670      + 034  + 143          -078       + 040
1855     - 4-693    --23--212945  + 1-049     + 0-597      + 022                 -029
1856     - 4-281                  + 0-918     + 0-501      + 065  + 195          -065       -058
1857     - 4-024     -2-698       + 0-963     + 0-589      + 073  + 096                     -036
1858     - 4-624                  + 1-004     + 0-571      + 006                 --0-80485  -014
1859                --226-83832   + 0-993     + 0-680      + 051  + 167          --0-30207
1860     -4-636                   + 0-891     + 0-567      + 045  + 102                     + 003
1861     -4-452     -2-017                    + 0-621      + 054  + 102          -038
1862                              + 0-794     + 0-475      + 029  + 079          -014       -002
1863     - 3-720    - 2-793       + 0-820     + 0-565      + 077  + -057         -067       -024
1864     - 4-256    - 2-324       + 0-645     + 0-571      + 050                 -065
1865                - 2-261       + 0-885     + 0-672      + 025  + 099                     + 003
1866     -3-550     - 2-295       + 0-948     + 0-516      + 077  + 049          + -029
1867                              + 0-971     + 0-492      + 089  + 089                     + 013
1868     --4-381    --2-701       + 0-783     + 0-488      + 100  + 146          +-002036
            4-394       3-021     + 0-759                         + 166          -027       - 000
Mean                              + 0-918     + 0-562      + 062  + 119                         -052
         --4-689    -3-171                                        + 184                      - -025
             4-086  -2-512
                    -2-479                                                                  -048
         --3-986    -3106                                                                   -014
             4-900
                                                                                            + 002
         -4-278
                                                                                            -029

                    -2-718 + 0-879                                + 122 -043 -016

DIFFERENCES of the COEFFICIENTS from the MEAN, in
                         thousandths of a Degree.

                 -*, -*,^0 ~ AA1
Year                                          ^** B>                   Ba ~^4

1849  .      + 630      -173      -264        -- 57    -- 64    -t-72  + 16      + 25       -3
1850                                               62  - 38     + 39             + 17
1851         - 170      + 38      + 35        + 28                     -+ 14     + 10       + 22
1852         - 310                            + 57          50  +2           5   + 17
1853                    +9        + 10                                           + 24       -11
1854         + 940      + 89                  -126     -+ 81    -16    -16       + 35
1855                                       1                68                              + 33
1856         --2150     -456                  + 170             + 45   +3        -14
                  460             -493        + 39     + 108           + 21                 -56
1857                    + 415                 + 84              -28    + 73      + 22
1858         --2552500            + 476       + 125    -+ 35    -40              + 35       + 42
1859                    +3                    + 114         61         -26       +2
1860                              - 20        + 12              +3                          -+ 10
1861         +-  1550   -254      - 85                 + 27            + 45      -13              2
1862               190                        - 85              + 11
1863                    + 346     + 164       - 59     +9              -20       --165      -19
1864                    + 358     + 299                         -56    -20                  -14
1865         + 1180               + 75        -234     + 118    -11    -43       -29
1866                    + 374                                          -65                  +8
             -2120                --394       +6       +5       --178  -23       + 24
1867                    --558          47     + 69                     -73       + 22       -19
1868         + 340            22                       +-  59   -33    -33                  -29
                                  -423        -+ 92        87                    -72        -16
             + 250      -728      - 17             96           + 15   + 24      -49
                                                                                 -20        + 36
             -+ 970     + 103     + 308       -120     +3       -12    -+ 44     -16        +9
                  730   + 116     + 453                         -37           3
                        + 411                 + 39     +9              + 62         23      -+ 32
                                  -206                          + 15                              2
             + 1180     -192      -239                 + 110    + 27       31          5
                        -292                                    + 38                        -18
             -+ 710               + 388                - 46                   7
                  890   + 622                          - 70                                 + 13
                                                       - 74
             + 2330                                                                            20
                                                                                                 4
Mean             1085 278 220 139                          56 26
      -V20 242 62 49 31                                    12 6

THE DELICACY OF THE HARMONIC ANALYSIS  213

    The calculations were pretty carefully checked. In the steps

of the calculations I never went beyond the third decimal of a

degree, and therefore this figure is liable to an error amounting to
a few units. With this understanding, the mean of the reductions

agrees with the reduction of the mean previously given [p. 207],
which was calculated quite independently, so that the two check
each other.

     The last line is given as allowing an estimate to be formed of
the mean errors of the coefficients derived from different groups of
20 independent years, compared with the coefficients which would
be obtained from an infinite number of years.

     The general conclusions obtained in my former memorandum in

an indirect way are borne out by the direct comparison between
different years which is here made. As before observed, the
minute fourth order is swallowed up, even in the mean of a 20
years' series, by the uncertainty in the amount of fluctuation, not to
speak of the much larger uncertainty in the mean temperature for
a day. Nevertheless, it appears from the figures that though this
order is so minute, and though its effect on the mean temperature
at any particular hour is trifling compared with the average varia-

tion from year to year of the mean for that same hour, it still

emerges roughly with tolerable certainty from the mean for a good
number of years.

    If we were in possession of a theory by which mean tempera-

tures could be calculated with the same precision as the planetary

motions, there would then be some interest in working out from
observation this fourth order, though so minute. But as there

appears to be no prospect of such a theory, and as it seems hardly
conceivable that so minute a feature of the diurnal fluctuation

could assist us in the endeavour to connect observed meteoro-
logical effects with their causes, it does not seem advisable to incur

the additional labour and expense that would be involved in the
endeavour to elicit from observation such very small fluctuations*.

    [* Sir George Airy's cordial concurrence with the practical conclusions here
derived, from the theory of meteorological statistics sketched in these memoranda,
is expressed, supra, p. 186.]

214 TEST OF WORKING OF HAEMONIC ANALYSER

       [From the Report of the Meteorological Council, 1880-81, pp. 2527.]

            ON THE WORKING OF THE HARMONIC ANALYSER.

                                    By PROF. STOKES.

    The harmonic analyser at the Office is now in regular use. It

has been applied in the first instance to the analysis of air tem-
peratures. The numbers on the seven cylinders give respectively
for each day the mean temperature, and the coefficients of the first
three pairs of terms in the variable part of the diurnal fluctuation.

It has not, however, been considered necessary to read all the

cylinders for each day. The mean cylinder and the pair which
give the coefficients of the two terms in the component of the 24-
hour period are read for each day, and the others only at the end
of each period of five days and at the end of each civil month.
Whether the coefficients of the two principal terms in the diurnal
fluctuation will be published for each day, or only as hitherto the
mean temperature, is not yet decided. In any case they would be
published for suitable intervals.

     The numbers on the cylinders are carried on by the machine,
so that no numerical additions are required in getting the mean
coefficient for any interval that may be chosen. Suppose the year
divided into equal or nearly equal parts, say into months. From
the mean coefficient, for each month, of any one of the terms in
the diurnal fluctuation, it will be easy to deduce, either by direct
numerical calculation or by the use of the machine, the harmonic
expansion of the annual fluctuation of the coefficient, and by
treating each coefficient in this way we may express the average
temperature as a function of the time of day and time of year, by
a series involving only a moderate number of coefficients derived

from observation. A comparison of the more important coefficients

as obtained for the same year for two different places, or for the
same place for two different years, would afford a general view of
the leading differences of climate of two places, or of the leading
differences of weather in different years.

      We are hardly yet in a condition to pronounce definitively upon
the degree of accuracy to which the machine practically works.
No investigation of the diurnal fluctuation of temperature has
hitherto been made at the Office, with which to compare the work
of the machine. The mean temperature alone admits, with the

          DEFECTS IN PERFORMANCE OF HARMONIC ANALYSER 215

data at present in our hands, of thorough comparison, and with
regard to it we are able to affirm with confidence that the work of
the machine is perfectly satisfactory. In fact, the mean tempera-
ture for the year came out the same by the machine as by
numerical calculation, from ordinates measured for each hour on

the photograms, to the hundredth part of a degree, or thereabouts.

It must be noticed, however, that there are no cross-heads with

slots in which pins work involved in the government of the motion
of the mean cylinder as there are for the others, so that we must

not jump to the conclusion that the working of the latter is equally

satisfactory.

     With the view to obtain some data for a fair comparison, a
book belonging to the Office was employed, in which are entered

the hourly temperatures for Valencia for the year 1871, the place
and year with which the work of the analyser was begun. From

the entries, the mean monthly temperatures were calculated

numerically for the even hours ; and then these, as well as the

annual means obtained from them, were expressed by the usual
arithmetical process, in a harmonic series with a year for period.
On comparing the coefficients thus obtained with those got by the

machine, discrepancies were found amounting perhaps to 0'2 or
0*3 in the larger terms, but generally smaller. In the small

terms, the discrepancies were usually considerably smaller. This
gave an idea of the greatest error to be feared, but left the question
undecided which was the more near to the truth. Independently

of arithmetical mistakes, which can be guarded against by sufficient
careful checking, the first process is open to the imperfection of
disregarding all changes that take place between one even hour
and the next. The principle of the Harmonic Analyser is perfect
in this respect, but the employment of the machine is subject to
the finiteness of accuracy which belongs to every mechanical process.

     To give some idea of the degree to which the coefficients were
liable to be vitiated in the first process by the disregard of all
changes that occurred between one even hour and the next, the
means for one month were taken for the odd hours only, and then
expressed arithmetically in a harmonic series. The coefficients
thus got from the even hours alone and the odd hours alone cer-
tainly agreed with one another a good deal better than either
agreed with the coefficients got by the machine, the discrepancies
between the first two sets reaching only to about 0'05.

216 NATURE OF THE ERRORS IN THE HARMONIC ANALYSER

    This seems to make it pretty clear that the chief source of
error is in the use of the machine, though it is true that the basis

of the induction on which this conclusion rests is rather limited.

That errors of some such magnitude should occur is not to be
wondered at when it is considered that the tenth of a degree,
which is a convenient measure of liability to error, is represented
on the photograms by only the y^jth of an inch. That the errors
should be comparable with so minute a quantity, shows that the
machine must have been worked with great care.

      On examining the errors (assumed to belong to the coefficients

got by the machine) it was noticed that in general if one coefficient

of a pair belonging to the same order were too large, the other
would be too small, and it was found that the square root of the
sum of the squares agreed with the same quantity as obtained by

measurement and calculation a good deal better than did the co-
efficients individually. The error in fact fell rather upon the epoch
than upon the coefficient when the two terms were combined into

one. The sign of the error of the epoch indicated a lagging. It

is probable that the results got by the machine might be improved
by introducing a correction to the epoch which may be expected
to be in the proportion of the numbers 1, 2, 3 for the pairs of terms
of those orders respectively.

     But even if we take the results as they are, seeking for no

further correction, the error is so small as not to be likely to be of
any practical importance, especially as it does not affect the mean
and, as to other terms, tends to be alike for different places or dif-

ferent years that may be compared. If the accuracy be sufficient

for all practical purposes, it would surely be unreasonable to refuse

to employ the machine merely because results slightly more accu-
rate could be obtained by a vastly greater expenditure of time
and labour, an expenditure so great that hitherto it has not been

attempted by the Office.

EFFECT OF CONTRACTION IN BAROMETER-TUBE                               217

[From the Eeport of the Meteorological Council, 1879-80, pp. 28 32.]

ON THE EFFECT OF SLUGGISHNESS ON THE READINGS OF
                   MARINE BAROMETERS ON SHORE.

Mr Buchan in his report called the attention of the Council to

the discrepancy in the relative readings of the portable barometer

with a highly contracted tube, belonging to the Office, which he
carried about with him on his tour of inspections, and of a baro-

meter with uncontracted tube, belonging to the Scottish Meteoro-

logical Society. If there were merely a difference of index error,

the difference between the readings of the two ought of course

to be constant. It was found, however, that the difference varied

according as the barometer was rising or falling. The character

of the change was such as to indicate that the barometer with

contracted tube was retarded in following the actual changes of
the true barometric height. The variation was sufficient to affect

slightly the second place of decimals of the height expressed in

inches.

    It is obvious that an effect of the kind must be produced by

the resistance which the capillary part of the tube presents to the
Ifflow of the mercury through it.
                                   this be the sole cause why

the barometer with contracted tube is behindhand in its indica-

tions of barometric changes, the circumstances of the retardation

may be determined by mathematical calculation.

    It is known that in the case of the slow motion of liquids

through narrow tubes the resistance, depending on the viscosity of
the liquid, varies as the first power of the velocity. This leads to

a differential equation of the simplest kind connecting the variation
of the height of the mercury with the difference between the

Jactual and true heights at the time ; namely  (1)
                            + ?(a-A)-0,

where x is the height of the mercury in the barometer with con-

tracted tube, t the time, q a constant, and h the true height, which
will be a function of t. This equation as it stands, or rather put

into the form

               *-+                             <2 >

218 LINEAR LAW OF VISCOSITY IN BAROMETER

when once the constant q is known, gives the height in terms of
the observed height and its rate of variation. For the apparent
height in terms of the true height we have from (1)

hdt = q I* -(-') h'dt',                   (3)

where ti is the same function of t' as h is of t. In this ex-

pression, as we shall see when we come to determine the value of
q, the part of the integral relating to times more than 20 minutes
or so earlier than the time t is practically insensible, and the
inferior limit may be taken accordingly.

     When the barometer is steadily rising or falling, so that the
rate of change is tolerably constant for a good many minutes, h is
a slowly varying function of the time, and (3) may be converted

into a rapidly converging series by integration by parts. It will

be sufficient to take the first two terms, giving

*=  k7     1 dh                           W

        -qdt>

which determines the error of lagging for a known rate of baro-
metric change, just as (2) gives the correction for lagging, sup-
posing the rate of change of the apparent height observed.

    It seemed doubtful d priori whether the resistance could still

be taken to vary as the velocity when we come to the, comparatively
speaking, enormously rapid changes of apparent height which take

place in the process of testing for sluggishness. In this the time

I(which will call the testing time, and denote by T) is observed
Iwhich the mercury takes to fall from V5 to 0*5 inch above its

true height. To examine this question made an experiment at
the Office on Barometer No. 261, with Mr Scott's assistance.

The mercury having been raised, one of us set the vernier to
heights successively decreasing by O'l inch, and called out when

the mercury reached the mark ; the other observed the time, and
wrote down the time and the height. Two experiments in which

the mercury descended from VI to O'l and from 1/2 to 01

above the true height, were made, and the mean of the times,
which agreed well, was taken.

     Supposing the law true, we have, putting h constant in (1),

x = h + Ge-#,                             (5)

and the logarithm of the excess of the apparent over the true

            NATURE AND INFLUENCE OF LAGGING  219

height is of the form a bt. On plotting the mean result of the

experiments by taking the time for abscissa and the logarithm of

the excess for ordinate, a curve was obtained which certainly was

very nearly a straight line, from which it did not certainly differ

by quantities exceeding the limits of errors of observation.

    It follows that our equations may be applied even to the more

rapid changes which occur in testing, and the value of q may be

deduced from that of T. It will be observed that q~l expresses a

time ; this may conveniently be called the " lagging time," and be

denoted by L. It is [the time] that the mercury takes to fall from

a height moderately exceeding the true height to another in which

the excess is reduced to its e-1 th part. It follows, from the definition

of T, that  -3

                e^  whence  L = O'OIO  2  T
                                          .

The permitted limits of T being 3 m. to 6 m., those of L will be

2 m. 44 s. to 5m. 28 s. : average, say 4 m.
     The last terms in (2) and (4) are simply the lagging time into

the rate of change, or what comes to the same thing if the rate be
taken as uniform, the change during the lagging time. It follows

that a reading taken at 8 h. a.m. gives the true height at a time
earlier by the lagging time, say at 7 h. 56 m. a.m. Unless there-
fore the observers at the secondary stations can be trusted for
great punctuality, the influence of lagging may be neglected;

and if they can they have only to date the observations earlier

than the times by the lagging times of their respective

barometers.

     Further, in comparing two barometers the more prompt should
be read first, and after an interval equal to the difference of the
lagging times the more sluggish, and the two readings treated as

simultaneous.
     We learn also that in the most sluggish barometer allowed, for

which T 6 m., when the barometer is set up after carriage. 39 m.

from the time the mercury stood at 1*5 inch above the true height
will suffice for the error of lagging, so far as depends on previous

carriage, to be reduced to less than O'OOl inch. For T = 3 m. the

time would of course be halved.

      The simple expression (4) was obtained on the supposition that
the rate of barometric change was sensibly uniform for a good
many minutes, and it would not therefore apply to the small rapid

220 FRICTIONAL EFFACEMENT OF EAPID FLUCTUATIONS

heavings which are sometimes observedwhen a storm is approaching.

It is obvious that the sluggishness tends to efface rapid fluctuations.

To take a simple example, suppose that x is subject to a fluctua-

tion expressed by c sin nt, so that

                                 h H + c sin nt,

Hwhere     is either constant or a slowly varying function of t.

From the     linearity of equation          (1)   we may    express separately
the parts                                 and    on c, and  the expression for
           of x depending on H

the former has already been given. For the part of x depending

on the fluctuations in h we have

           cq  n2  .   si.n  nt  n cos nt). or
       q2 +
                   (q

where

                                 ftan n\ = - =
                                                   q

P being the period of the fluctuation. We see that the phase of

the inequality in the apparent height x lags behind that of the

barometric inequality by the time X, and the coefficient is reduced

Pin the ratio of \j(<f + n2) to q, or *J(P 2 + 4?r2Z 2) to P.             m. 30 s.,
    Supposing L = 4 m., and taking for in succession

1 m., 2 m., 4 m., 8 m., 16m., 32 m., and putting m for the multiplier

of the coefficient, we have

P = 0m. 30s.          1 m.         2m.      4m.         8m.       16m.      32m.
                   Om. 15s.      Om.28s.  Om.53s.     1m. 36s.  2m. 34s.  3m. 22s.
X = 0m. 7s.
                       -040         -079     -157       -303       -535       -786
m= -020

PAs increases, X tends to 4 m., and m to 1, as its limit.

The experiment above referred to was calculated in the first

instance on the supposition that the true height of the barometer

at the time was 30'09 inches, according to data supplied by the

Office. Partly as this figure did not profess to be extremely
accurate, and partly in order to be independent of index error,

I&c., and to make the experiment self-contained, re-calculated

the result, assuming the true height as an additional unknown
Iquantity to be determined from the experiment itself.
                                                                          took as

known the time for height 31*2, 30'7, 30'3, and determined all the
Ielements from these three numbers.
                                                   found :

Calculated lagging time [see p. 219] 4 m. 12'7 s.
Whence testing time [see p. 218] 4 m. 37*7 s.
Calculated final height 30*111 inches.

        EXTENT OF VALIDITY OF LAW OF VISCOSITY           221

   I subjoin a comparison between the calculated and observed

times.

             Time

Height  Experiment 1 Experiment 2  Mean     Calculated

  31-3             -18             -18         -22-2
  31-2                                       Assumed
  31-1  Taken as origin               27
  31-0                                52-2         24-3
  30-9  27 27                         76-5         51-3
  30-8                              116-7          81-4
  30-7  51 53-5                     155-2        115-7
  30-6                              202-5    Assumed
  30-5  73 80                       265-2        202-3
  30-4                              332-5        260-1
  30-3  119        114-5            442-5        335-2
  30-2                              629      Assumed
        156        154-5                         630-2

        204        201

        264 266-5

        330 335

        440        445

        619        639

    The agreement with the observed numbers is very good. It

shows that the calculation may safely be trusted, at least for

heights ranging from about 0*1 to 1 inch from the true height.
The calculated final height is 0'021 above that given us, about
30'09, but temperature and index error may account for at least

part of it. The irregularity of capillarity, if it existed, would

tend to make the height too great, as the mercury was descending.

Perhaps a part of the excess 0*021 was due to this cause.
     The effect of sluggishness properly so called is, however, mixed

up with another which, if sensible, is not so easily allowed for,

namely, that of an irregularity in the capillary depression depend-
ing on variability in the angle of contact of the mercury and the

glass. This effect would certainly be sensible if the tube or

mercury were at all dirty, and may perhaps be not insensible even
when they are in the best condition. In a barometer with un-
contracted tube it is obviated by tapping, which sets the mercury
free to take its normal height. But in a marine barometer the

effect of tapping is merely to render the angle of contact normal
for the moment, altering thereby slightly the curvature at the
vertex, on which depends the correction for capillarity, and con-
sequently the equilibrium of the column; but when the previous

equilibrium is thus disturbed the mercury does not at once take
its level, but only begins to move (or moves at a different rate

from what it did before if it were already in motion), and the slow

222 KULE FOR CORRECTION OF CONTRACTED-TUBE BAROMETERS

rise or fall again alters the angle of contact from its normal
value, and so on. On shipboard the motion of the vessel supplies
what is equivalent to a constant tapping, but on land when the
mercury is almost at its normal height, and is slowly rising or
falling, this tendency of the edge of the mercurial column to
stick where it is produces something of the nature of an addi-
tional source of sluggishness, which could be obviated indeed
by incessant tapping, but is not quite prevented by tapping only
now and then. The Council contemplate gradually replacing
the marine barometers at the secondary stations by others in
which the tubes are not contracted. The sluggishness arising
from viscosity as the mercury flows through the capillary part
of the tube affects a barometer on shipboard equally with one on

land, and that can easily be allowed for if the " lagging time " be

known.

           [From the Minutes of the Meteorological Council, Jan. 24, 1880.]

      Professor Stokes submitted the following Memorandum relating
to the use of barometers with contracted tubes :

    With reference to one passage in Mr Buchan's report, I must

observe that the point which he laid before the Meteorological
Council respecting the sluggishness of marine barometers, in his

Iformer report, was perfectly well understood by them ; and it was

precisely with a view to investigate that point that instituted
the experiments and calculations detailed in my Memorandum

[supra, p. 217]. It is perfectly true that the experiments

were made with comparatively speaking very large differences of
height of the falling mercury from the equilibrium height, but
the object of those experiments was to lay a foundation for a
mathematical calculation from which the effect of sluggishness
might be deduced in cases where the differences are such as those
which Mr Buchan contemplates. The rule arrived at is very
simple, namely that, except in the case of rapidly recurring
fluctuations, the effect of sluggishness will be allowed for by
taking an observed reading of the barometer to represent the
barometric height, riot at the moment of observation, but at a

Itime earlier by a certain interval T which called the " lagging

time," which is ordinarily something like three or four minutes,
and is a constant belonging to each barometer which may be

            CAPILLARY ERROR IN MARINE BAROMETERS                                                                                                 223

easily calculated from the time the mercury took to fall from

1*5 to 0'5 inch above the true height when the barometer was

tested for sluggishness.

    It is only when the height of the barometer is subject to very

rapid oscillations (whether, on the whole, the barometer be rising,

falling, or stationary), that the rule fails to give that portion of

the whole height which is due to the small oscillation superposed

on the general rise or fall.

The error arising from sluggishness in a rising or falling

barometer is, however, associated with another, not depending

upon sluggishness, and equally affecting a barometer which is not

contracted, namely, the irregularity in the correction for capillarity

Idue to an irregularity in the angle of contact of the mercury with
the glass.  do not believe that this would be sensible with a

barometer in proper condition, though it would be otherwise if

the glass were at all dirty or the mercury in the tube showed the

least film on its surface. This however, quite distinct from the
                              is,

                                     it
error of sluggishness and though         affects a barometer with
            a
uncontracted tube, the latter has certainly the advantage that the
                ;
error may be at once removed by tapping, which not the case
                                                                                                                         is
with a marine barometer, unless be tapped at frequent intervals
                              it                                                                                                              :

during the space of few minutes.

[From the Minutes of the Meteorological Council, Feb. 19, 1884.]

Professor Stokes submitted the following Memorandum

RESULTS OBTAINED BY THE APPLICATION           OF THE HARMONIC
         ANALYSER TO THE PHOTOGRAPHIC         RECORDS OF THE
          BAROMETER.

In relation to this subject two distinct questions present

themselves First, how far may the instrument be trusted to
            :
                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                      ?
give the coefficients in the harmonic expression for the height,

regarded as a periodic function of the time, superseding thereby

the laborious process of measuring a great number of ordiriates

and calculating the coefficients numerically  Secondly, how far

do the coefficients obtained in either of these ways represent a

true periodic inequality, as distinguished from the mere un-

eliminated residues of non-periodic fluctuations

     (1) The instrument has hitherto been applied to the diurnal
variation in the different months. Its accuracy for eliciting this

224 DETERMINATION OF DIURNAL BAROMETRIC VARIATION

feature, so delicate a one in our latitudes, has been tested in the

following manner.

The height of the barometer for each month of the year 1876,

and for each of the seven self-recording observatories, "has been
expressed as a function of the time of day in a harmonic series to
three orders, by numerical calculation in the usual way, from the
data furnished by the hourly means calculated by Mr Eaton. The

coefficients got in this manner show a very close agreement
with those obtained by means of the machine. The coefficients
of the variable terms, which have been calculated to four places of

decimals, agree so well that the average difference is only about
the thousandth of an inch. The comparison does not furnish the

means of forming a judgment which of the two sets of numbers

is the more accurate. The processes are, however, the same as
those which had been tested with the thermometer, in which case

the calculated coefficients had been deduced from the odd and

even hours separately; and the results rendered it probable that

the coefficients obtained by calculation were rather the more

accurate. But practically the agreement is so close that either

set of numbers may be accepted.

     The mean height as got by the two methods shows an equally
close agreement in five out of the seven observatories, while in

the remaining two the discrepancies are as great as 0'020 for
Valencia and 0'034 for Glasgow. This, doubtless, depends on the
scale- value, which in the case of Glasgow is known to have been
affected two or three times in the course of the year 1876 by
alteration of focus. As the top of the column is a good way from
the fiducial line, this practically amounts to an index error, which

of course does not affect the variable terms.
     In the numbers relating to the barometer no correction has

been made for the discontinuity introduced by breaking off at the

              a if

                                                    it

                                                                    is,
two ends of the period analysed, that                                    at the beginning and

end of a month, when the values of the height and of its differ-

ential coefficients of the various orders are not the same. This,

however, does not sensibly affect the comparison of the coefficients

obtained in the two ways, though       might sensibly affect the

coefficients  taken as representing those in the true diurnal

inequality.

(2) Taking the uncorrected coefficients for the several months,

we observe    considerable amount of regularity in those of the

    CAUSES OF IRREGULARITY IN A HARMONIC TERM                                                 225

second and third orders, those of the second being tolerably constant,

while those of the third show a well-marked seasonal inequality,
as they vanish about the equinoxes and have opposite signs in
summer and winter. The coefficients of the first order appear to
be a good deal less regular. This is probably due to two causes :
first, the correction for discontinuity decreases with the increase
of the order; secondly, the large non-diurnal fluctuations of the

barometer present rises and falls of somewhat the same frequency
as those in a regular periodic inequality with a period of some
few days, at any rate more than one day; and the uneliminated
residues of these large non-periodic fluctuations, which affect the
coefficients of the true diurnal inequality, would accordingly have
greater influence the lower be the order of the term. The latter
cause of irregularity is probably the more serious of the two.

    It is satisfactory to find that a well-marked seasonal constancy

or inequality in the diurnal fluctuation for the different months
exhibits itself in the reduction of observations extending only over

one year.

    [From the Minutes of the Meteorological Council, Nov. 26, 1884.]

                    ON RAIN-BAND SPECTROSCOPY.

    With reference to the resolution passed at the last meeting

(Minutes, p. 47), Professor Stokes reported that a renewed examina-

tion of the sky with reference to the rain-band led him now to

think it possible that something might be made of
                                                                                   if         with
                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                               it,
                                                                                                    it
suitable directions as to the part of the sky to aim at but

is  obviously desirable that the instrument should, possible, be

made quantitative, and as one simple method had occurred to him

which might conceivably effect this object, he was unwilling to

order an instrument until he should be able to try this method.

    [From the Report  the Meteorological Council, 1885-6, pp. 22 3.]
                      of
                                                 a
                                                           a

                                                                               2,
               MEMORANDUM ON CLOUD PHOTOGRAPHY.

    By PROF. STOKES. Presented June                                                1885.

     The Council have now obtained series of cloud photographs
taken with cameras at two stations at distance of 800 yards,

    s. B. ii.                                                                             15

226 DETERMINATION OF HEIGHTS AND VELOCITIES OF CLOUDS

Each observation involves four photographs, one pair taken simul-

taneously at the two stations respectively, and another pair taken

about a minute after the former. The object was to determine

the height, direction of motion, and velocity of various clouds.

    In the observation the cameras are set to correspond, so that

the lines of collirnation in taking the four photographs are in the

same direction, save as to certain small corrections of the nature

of index errors. A selection is made of cloud-points which can be

identified, and these are marked on the four photographs. The

coordinates of the marked points, referred to vertical and horizontal

lines shown on the photograph, can be measured, when it becomes

a question of calculation only to determine the position of a cloud-

point, both for the first and second moments of observation, and

consequently to determine not only its height, but the direction

and velocity of its motion. At either moment the photographs

determine the two lines of sight for the cloud-point, as seen from
Ifthe station respectively.
                             the identification be correct, these

lines ought to intersect, which would give a relation between the

four observed quantities, namely, the altitudes and azimuths of

the cloud-point as seen from the two stations ; accordingly three

of these observed quantities suffice for the determination, and then

the fourth affords a verification.

The requisite formulas for the reduction are readily obtained

from spherical trigonometry. The calculation is perfectly straight-

forward, and there would be no difficulty about it if we had only a

small number of cloud-points to reduce.

    It is very desirable, however, to have numerous observations,

and to determine, at least at first, a considerable number of cloud-

points for each. The calculation, however, as above indicated,

though straightforward, is by no means short ; and the labour and

consequent expense of making very numerous reductions in this

manner would be almost prohibitive. Accordingly an endeavour

has been made to simplify the process, and a method has been

devised which promises to give the results with very little trouble,

and at the same time very accurately.

    It would be premature to describe this method at length until

it shall have been actually put in practice. Suffice it to say that

paper positives are taken from the glass negatives, and the cloud-
points are marked on them. The four positives are laid in succes-

sion on a piece of paper on which a pair of cross-lines had previously

METHOD OF REDUCING CLOUD PHOTOGRAPHS  227

been drawn, a correction being made for index errors by slightly

shifting the positive from the position in which the cross-lines on

it would be in a line with the cross-lines on the paper below. The

places are then copied by pricking through. The lower paper
now contains the record of the whole observation, cleared of index

errors.

    It is easy then to pass from the projection of the cloud-points on

a plane parallel to the plates, to a projection on a horizontal plane,

in the following manner. A wooden frame is prepared containing

(1) a lens or combination of short focus with its axis horizontal,
(2) a vertical frame, or board with a window, at a horizontal dis-
tance from the focus of the lens equal to the focal length of the
objective of the camera, (3) a drawing board moveable round a
horizontal axis intersecting at right angles the axis of the instru-
ment, and capable of being clamped at any desired angle to the

vertical frame.

     The drawing board is set at an angle to the vertical equal to
the zenith distance of the line of collimation, in the set of observa-

tions to be reduced, and the pricked paper is fastened by drawing
pins to the vertical frame, the four arms of the cross having been

previously marked by pricking through. A piece of paper having

been pinned on to the drawing board, the sun's light is reflected
into the lens, and the operator marks the centres of the spots of
light corresponding to the various holes. This can be done with

the utmost precision, if the pin or needle used for pricking has the

proper diameter to give, as a result of diffraction, a very fine black
centre in the middle of the illuminated patch.

     When the four marked points corresponding to the four

observations on any one cloud-point are joined, a quadrilateral

is formed, two opposite sides of which, if there be no error of

observation, will be parallel to each other and to the line joining
the stations. If, moreover, the cloud be not moving up or down,
but only in a horizontal plane, the sides above mentioned will be
equal, and the quadrilateral will be a parallelogram. Two opposite
sides represent the drift on the same scale on which the other two

sides represent the base line of 800 yards, so that the magnitude
and direction of motion are in a matter represented to the eye.

PMoreover, the height is given by the simple expression cos ZQ +p;
Pwhere is the product of the base and the horizontal distance

from the focus of the lens to the drawing board, which accordingly

                                                              152

228 PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES IN RAIN-BAND SPECTROSCOPY

is always the same, z is the zenith distance of the line of collima-
tion, and is therefore the same for all the cloud-points belonging
to the same set, and p is the base side of the parallelogram be-
longing to any particular cloud-point which is parallel to the base.
The calculation is accordingly extremely easy ; and, moreover, an
inspection of the different figures shows at once the relative heights
of the different cloud-points, since the heights are inversely as the
parallel sides of the corresponding parallelograms.

     The photographs hold out the prospect of giving very good

results. It is to be remembered that there is no object in extreme

accuracy ; what we want is rather numerous observations, so as to
get a general insight into the movements of the air at different
heights, and under different circumstances.

        [From the Minutes of the Meteorological Council, July 29, 1885.]

With reference to the rain-band observations, Professor Stokes

reported that since the date of the resolution (Minutes, 1884,
p. 79), he had been in the constant habit of observing the spectrum
of the sky with a view to the rain-band, using a small direct-
vision spectroscope which he generally carried about with him.

As regards the appearance of a darkening on the red side of the
line D, so much depends on the intensity of the light to be
observed, and on the width of the slit employed, and so unsatis-
factory is a comparison of what the observer actually sees with
his memory of what he had seen on other occasions, that he
doubted whether anything could be made of it, unless perhaps by
an amateur who was free to devote much of his attention to it.

Under these circumstances he was unwilling to incur expense in
ordering apparatus unless again requested by the Council to

do so.

Professor Stokes also explained, with reference to the resolu-

tion (Minutes, 1882, p. 31), the plan he proposed for determining

the constant of the bridled anemometer, that  is,  the ratio of the

moment of the pressure on the cups to the moment of the
pressure on a pressure plate acting at a known leverage. He was
authorised by the Council to expend the sum not exceeding 15

on apparatus for the determination of the constant.

RETIREMENT FROM METEOROLOGICAL COUNCIL  229

            [From the Minutes of the Meteorological Council, Nov. 30, 1887.]

   RESIGNATION OF MEMBERSHIP OF METEOROLOGICAL COUNCIL.

      With reference to the resignation of Professor Stokes (Minutes,
p. 80), the following resolution was adopted, and the Secretary
was instructed to communicate it to Professor Stokes (P.O. 2439) :

     Resolved "That the Meteorological Council, having been
informed of the withdrawal of Professor Stokes from their body,
desire to record their sense of the high value of his services while
a member of the Council, and their regret that circumstances
should have deprived them of a colleague so eminently qualified
to aid them with his advice and give weight to the results of their

determinations."
      The Secretary was further instructed to inform Professor Stokes

that the Council would be most happy to present to him in future
any of their publications which he might wish to possess.

                                                              LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                    January 10, 1888.

      DEAR MR SCOTT,

            I feel that my apologies are due to the Meteorological
ICouncil for the kind, but fear only too flattering, resolution

which they passed on my retirement from their body, for indeed

I have felt often how little I was doing for the Office or for
IMeteorology : for the last, indeed, can hardly claim anything.

    IThe Council will, Ihope, be less disposed to think that have

been unmindful of their kindness when I tell them that shortly

Ibefore Christmas went suddenly to Ireland in consequence of the

. serious illness of my sister.

      Will you kindly convey my thanks to the Council ? Yours, &c.

                                               (Signed) G. G. STOKES.

230  CONSTANT OF ROBINSON CUP- ANEMOMETER

      [From the Report of the Meteorological Council, 1889-90, pp. 3648*.]

     NOTE ON EXPERIMENTS ON PRESSURE OF WIND MADE BY
                                    MR W. H. DINES.

     Mr Dines first took up this subject at the instance of the Wind
Force Committee of the Royal Meteorological Society, and his ex-

periments were directed to a re-determination of the factor of the
Robinson cup-anemometer, the exact value of which was still
involved in some doubt.

      The experiments were made with a whirling machine of 29 ft.
radius, driven by steam, erected in a level and somewhat sheltered
field at Hersham, Walton-on-Thames. The results of the experi-
ments were published in the Quarterly Journal of the Society,
Vol. XIV. p. 253, and Vol. xvi. p. 26. Mr Dines found the factor
to be about 2*2, and thus practically confirmed the conclusion of
Sir G. G. Stokes, who deduced (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1881, p. 170) the
value 2 '3, in place of 3 as found by Dr Robinson.

     As Mr Dines had shown great skill in devising and carrying

out these experiments, and had expressed his willingness to con-
tinue his researches with his whirling machine, the Council
considered it desirable that the opportunity thus presented should
be utilised for further experiments in certain branches of aero-

dynamics.

     A grant was accordingly made, and Mr Dines proceeded to

investigate the connexion between the velocity of the wind and

the pressure on obstacles of various kinds. A full description of

the experiments and of the results was submitted to the Council
in May, 1889, and has since been published in the Quarterly
Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, Vol. xv. p. 1 ; it will
therefore here suffice to give a summary.

     The natural wind is not available for experiments on wind
pressure, because it is usually gusty and variable in direction, and

because it is not easy to measure its velocity with accuracy. It

thus becomes practically necessary to have recourse to a whirling

machine. But if such a machine be made on so small a scale that
it can be sheltered from the natural wind, then, unless the pressure

     [* The following reports, published after Prof. Stokes had resigned his position
on the Council, are included here because they refer to work in which he was
closely concerned.]

EXPERIMENTS ON WHIRLING PRESSURE-PLATE  231

plate be small, the circularity of the motion introduces a large
error, and besides the possibility of the persistence of eddies in

the air may be a cause of uncertainty in the results. A whirling

machine should be therefore on a large scale and must accordingly
be erected in the open air. Under these conditions, the natural

wind, which always exists to a greater or less extent, is superposed
on the artificial wind, and the total wind, to which the pressure is
due, oscillates about a mean value in the course of each revolution

of the whirler.

      These various difficulties have, however, been obviated by

Mr Dines by means of an ingenious device. It has long been

known that, to a close degree of approximation, wind pressure

varies as the square of the velocity of the wind. Now if a weight

be swung round in a circle the restraint required to keep it in its

course varies as the square of its velocity. It therefore occurred

to him to balance the pressure on the experimental plate, when
carried round by the arm of the whirler, by the centrifugal force,
or tendency to fly outwards, of a weight swung round by the same
arm. This plan was found to answer admirably, for when the right
amount of centrifugal force for balancing the pressure of the
artificial wind was found for any one speed of the whirler, the

balance was maintained at all other speeds. It thus became

unnecessary to make any accurate measurements of the rate of

revolution of the whirling machine.
     Mr Dines also devised an ingenious arrangement by which the

amount of centrifugal force opposing the wind pressure varied
automatically, until a true balance was attained. Also since the

automatic adjustment did not take place instantaneously, but only
by degrees, the disturbance due to natural wind was almost entirely
eliminated, and thus experiments were made possible, excepting on
days when there was a very high wind.

     This is not the place for a full description of the apparatus by
which the mechanical principle, explained above, was utilised, but

a few words of general explanation are advisable.

     The pressure plate was rigidly attached to a short arm, which
lay in the same plane as the plate. The other end of the short
arm could turn about a pivot which was attached to the long arm
of the whirler. When the plate was in position for an experiment,
the short arm was in line with the long arm, and the wind pressure
tended of course to make the plate turn about the pivot.

232 DESCRIPTION OF WHIRLING APPARATUS

     The centrifugal force was due to the weight of a horizontal
metal bar, at right angles to the long arm of the whirler. This
bar could slide through a slot, and when the middle of the bar was
at one side of the slot the centrifugal force, due to the revolution
of the machine, tended to make the slot turn. The slot was geared
to the short arm of the pressure plate by mechanism, which need
not be described, so that the centrifugal force reacted against wind
pressure. By an automatic action the bar slid through the slot,
until, when the weight of the bar was winged out to a certain
distance, there was a balance between wind pressure and centri-
fugal force. Measurement of the distance between the centre of
the bar and the slot then gave the amount of force which had been
called into play. The tendency of the pressure plate to turn was
arrested by two stops, so near together that the plate could only

turn through about 1; it bore on one stop when the centrifugal

force was insufficient for a balance, and on the other when too

great. An electrical indicator was devised for detecting on which
of the two stops the plate was bearing. An experiment was made
by giving a few turns to the machine, and continuing the revolu-
tion until the indicator showed that the plate was bearing on
neither stop, or more commonly until it sometimes bore on one

stop and sometimes on the other.
     For the smaller plates the maximum velocity of which the

machine was capable was about 70 miles an hour, but most of
the experiments were made at speeds between 20 and 30 miles

an hour.

     A number of plates and cups of different sizes and shapes were
used, and the values given in the following table are the mean
of all the experiments made with each particular plate, the number
of experiments made with each being given in the last column of

the table. Each experiment consisted of about three observations
taken in immediate succession. As a rule no plate was tried
twice on the same day. With the larger plates a single value
seldom differed from the mean by more than 5 per cent., and on
the whole the different values were fairly consistent. There were,
however, two cases of exception to this statement, and they were
the cylindrical surface and the sharp cone when placed in front of
the plate. The results of five experiments out of the series of
about 150 were rejected.

     The particular value of 20'86 miles per hour for the velocity

WIND-PRESSURE ON PLATES OF VARIOUS FORMS                                      233

given in the table was chosen for the following reason. The centre
of the pivot about which the pressure plates could turn was
28 ft. 1 in. from the axis of rotation of the whirling machine,
and the centre of the plate 28 ft. 7 in. Taking the numerical

value of the acceleration due to gravity as 32*19, these figures
give 20'86 miles per hour as the velocity of the centre of the
plates at which the centrifugal force acting upon the bar is equal
to its weight.

Table showing the pressure upon various plates at a velocity of
       20'86 miles per hour. The values are reduced to the standard
       temperature and pressure. The flat plates were cut out of

      hard wood to in. thick. Allowance has been made for the arm

        which carried them.

              Plates                              Actual   Pressure, in   No. of
                                                Pressure,
                                                              Ibs. per   Experi-
                                                  in Ibs.  Square Foot    ments

A square, each side 4 ins                         '17      1-51            4
A circle, 4-51 ins. diameter, same area           '17      1-51            9
A rectangle, 16 x 1 ins                           '19      1-70            7
A circle, 6 ins. diameter                         '29      1-47            7
A square, each side 8 ins                          "66     1-48            8
                                                  '67      1-50          12
A circle, 9*03 ins. diameter, same area           -70      1-58           4
A rectangle, 16 x 4 ins                         1 '57      1-57            7
A square, each side 12 ins                      1'55       1-55          14
A circle, 13-54 ins. diameter, same area ...    1'56       1-59            6
A rectangle, 24x6 ins                           2 '70      1-52            6
A square, each side 16 ins                        '28      1-45            5
A plate, 6 ins. diameter, and 4| ins. thick...    '18      0-92            4
A cylinder, 6 ins. diameter, and 4| ins. long     '13      0-67
A sphere, 6 ins. diameter
A plate, 6 ins. diameter, with a blunt cone,      -29      1-49
angle 90, at the back                             '19      0-98
The same, with cone in front
A plate, 6 ins. diameter, with a sharp cone,      -30      1-54
a,ngle 30, at the back                            '12      0-60

The same, with cone in front                      -28      1-68
A 5-inch Robinson cup, mounted on 8^ ins.         '12      0-73
of 4-in. rod                                      '82      1-75
                                .                 '28      0-60
                                                  '13      2-60
The same, with its back to the wind               '05      1-04
A 9-in. cup, mounted on 6^ ins. of f-in. rod      '09      1-71
The same, with its back to the wind
A 2^-in. cup, mounted on 9| ins. of ^-in. rod
The same, with its back to the wind

One foot of f-in. circular rod

     The results of the table may be roughly summarized as follows.
The pressure upon a plane area of fairly compact form is about

1^ Ib. per square foot at a velocity of 21 miles per hour, or in

234 EFFECTS OF EDGES AND PERFORATIONS ON PRESSURE

other words, a pressure of 1 Ib. per square foot is caused by a

wind of a little more than 17 miles per hour.

Experiments were also made with two kinds of plates made of

perforated zinc. The pressure on the first kind, which contained

about 77 holes of '08 in. diameter per square inch, was 9 per cent,

less than on a solid plate, but gave the high value of 2*43 Ibs.

pressure per square foot of actual surface. The values for the

second kind, having 11 to 12 holes of '22 in. diameter per square

inch, were 20 per cent, less than on a solid plate, and gave about

2 Ibs. per square foot of actual surface.                   the
                                                            the
    It was necessary to stiffen these plates by turning up

edges, and it was found that this edge when presented to

wind increased the pressure by about 6 per cent.

    A cone and a projecting rim, when put at the back of the foot

circular plate, caused no appreciable alteration in the pressure, but

when the rim projected in front the results were, an increase of

6 per cent, with a projection of ^in., of 10 per cent, with fin.,

and of 14 per cent, with fin.
The effect of cutting holes in the foot square plates was also

tried eight circular holes, each of one square inch area, being

made, four as near the centre as possible, and one close to each

corner. No difference in the pressure could be detected, whether

any or all of the holes were covered or open. The eight holes

together take away more than 5 per cent, of the plate, yet a differ-

ence of 1 per cent, in the pressure, had it existed, would certainly

have been apparent.

The pressure upon the same area is increased by increasing the

perimeter. The pressure upon any surface is but slightly altered

by a cone or rim projecting at the back, a cone seeming to cause a

slight increase, but a rim having apparently no effect. This result

is of importance, since a pressure plate for permanent use should

be of some material which will not warp, and if thin metal be used

a rim is necessary to obtain the requisite stiffness. As might be

expected, a cone in front greatly reduces the pressure.
     Mr Dines next determined the moment of pressure upon a 5-in.

Robinson cup when placed at different angles to the wind from

to 180. The cup was mounted upon an arm 1 foot in length.

The moment varied as the square of the velocity, so that the same

mechanical device as before was again applicable.

The following table gives the moment in feet and pounds when

           FORCE OF OBLIQUE WIND ON ANEMOMETER-CUP                               235

the velocity of the wind is 20'94 miles an hour. The angles are

measured, so that when the wind blew straight into the concavity

of the cup its incidence is 0; when it blew across the mouth of

the cup it is 90; and when it blew at the back it is 180.

                  moment = -284                            -96 moment = -014
                                                           108 =--050
            12 =-292                                       -120 = -046
            24 = 303                                       -132
                                                                  =  -  -073
            36 = -303                                      144    =     -110

            48 = 317                                       156 = --116
                                                           168 = --124
            60 =246                                        180 C  = --127

            72 = 127
            84 =-048

    In Sir G. Stokes's bridled anemometer the rotation of the cups
is not free as in the ordinary instrument, but is restrained by the
action of a spring or weight. The amount of torsion of the spindle
which bears the cups is the datum from which the velocity of
the wind is deduced. One of these anemometers is under trial at

Holyhead.

    The instrument ought qf course to give constant results from

whatever quarter the wind blows, and thus the torsional force

required to hold the spindle bearing the cups ought to be in-

dependent of the orientation of the wind with respect to the cups.
Sir G. Stokes has used Mr Dines's results with respect to a single

cup to determine the inequality, according to orientation, of the

action of the wind on a bridled anemometer, consisting of any
number of cups from one to six. In Mr Dines's table, given

above, the semi-circumference is divided into 15 equal parts, and

accordingly there are materials for computing the action of the

wind on an anemometer of one or several cups in 30 different

azimuths. It is obvious that if there are several cups, the same

torsional couple is repeated several times over;                        for example,
                                                                     if,

                                                                             if
there are two cups, there will be 15 different azimuths, three,

10 different ones, and so on.

    The mean of Mr Dines's numbers, when repeated so as to go

round the whole circumference, 80, hence the mean couple due

to single cup may be taken as 80. Sir G. Stokes then com-
    a
          1,
                2,
                      3,
                            4,

                           is 5,

                                      6
                                                       1,

                                                    5, is
puted the couple due to pressure on a single cup for the 30

azimuths, with such repetitions as correspond to an anemometer

with        cups, and subtracted from each the mean

couple 80.

    For example, when there are six cups, the excess above or

defect below 80 + 12, +                                    12, + repeated six times in1,

236 MUTUAL MASKING EFFECT OF CUPS

all. The sum of these five numbers, regardless of sign, is 31, and
their fifth part is 6*2. Hence the average inequality with six cups

is represented by 6'2, the mean couple being represented by 8'0.

In this way he found that, still taking the mean couple as 80, the

average inequality is as follows :

With 1 cup,   161-5   With 4 cups,  17-2
With 2 cups,    28-2  With 5 cups,   4-8
With 3 cups,    19-3  With 6 cups,    6-2

    It is obvious that the smallness of these numbers is a measure

of the goodness of the instrument as a wind measurer. In design-
ing the instrument, Sir G. Stokes had had an impression that an

odd number of cups would be better than an even number, and
this appears to be borne out by the numbers. There is naturally
a diminution in the inequality with the increase in the number of
cups, but this appears to be blended with a superiority of odd to
even. Thus 3 cups come out nearly as good as 4, and 5 rather

better than 6.

    If 6 cups be taken as a superior limit to the number desirable,

5 appears to be the best number to choose.
     Sir G. Stokes had been induced to undertake this investigation,

which was communicated to the Council in the form of a letter,
by some further experiments by Mr Dines, to which we now return.

     Mr Dines, then, tested an anemometer of five cups, exactly
like that at Holyhead, by the same method as that by which he
had previously treated the pressure plates. He found that the

magnitude of the moment due to the wind was greatly influenced
by orientation. The values for positions at intervals of 6 are
shown in the annexed diagram, each value being the mean of
several observations. The results of the experiments were fairly

consistent with one another, the observation for each angle seldom
differing by more than three or four per cent, from the mean value.

      The figures show the moment, expressed in Ibs. and feet,
exerted by a wind of 21 miles per hour. The direction of the
wind relatively to the cups is shown by the angle against which

the figures are placed. In all cases the moment varies as the

square of the velocity.

72 -108               36 -380
66 -140               30 -313
60 -160               24 -274
54 -203               18 -203
48 -262               12 -172
42 -314
                        6 -148

IMPROVED BRIDLED ANEMOMETER  237

    It was obvious from the consideration of these numbers that

the great inequality in the torsional force is not due to the causes
considered by Sir G. Stokes, but arises from the interference of
each cup with the one partially behind it.

    In consequence of these investigations, it was therefore decided

to reconstruct the anemometer, retaining five cups in accordance
with Sir G. Stokes's views, but re-arranging them spirally on their
spindle, so that the interference detected by Mr Dines should be

obviated.

     Mr Dines was then requested to undertake a new series of

experiments on the bridled anemometer in its modified form. On
the completion of his experiments he submitted the following

report to the Meteorological Council.

Determination of the Moment of the Wind Force upon the new
          arrangement of Cups of the Bridled Anemometer.

     The instrument consists of five cups, each 5 ins. diameter,
mounted with their centres 7^ ins. from the axis. The cups are
not in one plane, but are arranged so that there is 1 in. clear
vertical space between the rims of two consecutive cups, and a
difference of 144 azimuth.

     Since the length of the axis rendered it impossible to use the
method which was adopted with the old instrument, the following

plan was adopted.

     A thin metal disc graduated in degrees round part of its

circumference was made to fit loosely on the bottom of the shaft
of the anemometer, and was provided with a screw by which it

could be clamped in any position. A brass weight was attached

to the disc at 3 ins. from the centre, and at the same distance on
the opposite side of the centre an exactly equal piece of wood was
placed to neutralize the wind pressure upon the brass. The whole

was fitted in a light iron frame so that it could turn freely about
its axis. The frame could be attached to the long arm of the
 whirler, so that the axis of the instrument was vertical, and

 consequently the disc horizontal.
      Suppose to be the centre of the disc, OA the direction of the

 line joining with the centre of the whirling machine, OB the

 direction of motion, G the position of the weight, and E'ihe zero

 mark of the graduations, OG being at right angles to OE. Let

238 WIND-PRESSURE ON CUPS BALANCED BY A WEIGHT

the angle between OE and the vertical plane through one of the
cup arms be a, and the angle AGE, or BOG be

    It clear that a sufficient weight be placed at
is                                                                                                     the

                  if

                                                                             ft.
                                                                                                   G,

centrifugal force upon the weight will prevent the complete

ft.rotation of the cups, and that there will be some value of lying:
  is abetween and 90 which will be in a position of equilibrium.
             7                                            a
     The experiments were made thus The disc was clamped so
                 athat had a certain value, the whirling machine was then rotated,ft
                      ft
and soon after a steady velocity had been obtained, brake wasft
                                                      ft.
applied to the disc by a string running from the centre of the a
whirling machine, in order that no change of position should be
possible until the reading had been obtained. The machine was
then stopped and the value of read off to the nearest degree.
The value of 4- gave the direction of the wind relatively to the
cups, the moment of the force exerted by the wind at the instant
of applying the brake being proportional to cos

    In order that the scale might be an open one, a weight was

Ifchosen which gave the position of equilibrium with small value

of W be this weight the moment due to the centrifugal

^.force g(r+OGsmft-^) OGcosft.

             EXPERIMENTS ON BRIDLED ANEMOMETER                                                        239

As has been explained in my account of the experiments with

pressure plates, the actual velocity v need not be measured, and is
immaterial to the result ; but in these experiments a high velocity

of about 60 miles per hour has been employed to eliminate as far

as possible the troublesome error due to the natural wind. Assum-

ing that the position of equilibrium is taken up immediately, it

will be seen that the natural wind may either raise or lower the

moment as determined by this method. If the brake be applied

when the instrument is moving with the wind the apparent

moment is lowered, and conversely. On the whole, however, the

tendency is to increase the moment, so that the error cannot be
eliminated by taking the mean of a large number of ob-

servations.

     Care has been taken that the brake should not be applied in
any one part of the circle more than in another, and no experiment

has been entered which was made at any time when there was the

smallest perceptible wind. Still a wind of two miles per hour is
barely perceptible in the open air, and such a wind might alter the
moment in the ratio of 58 2 : 60 2, that cause an error of from to
                                                                /3 is,                                6
per cent.
  About 80 experiments                                                                                        {3 :

  A row of figures from
7                                                               have been made and worked up thus
                                                                to 72 being prepared, the value of cos
                   it

                                   /3
                                           a

                                                             1
was taken from a table and placed opposite to the figure indicating
the value of a -f for the same experiment. In the first experi-
ments the value of was chosen at random, but in subsequent

experiments was chosen so as to fill in the blanks left in the list

as far as possible.                                                                                   it
     When the whole set of experiments had been thus tabulated
/9
was found that the mean value of cos was '965, the lowest value

*900, and that there was no very marked variation in the value of
cos in different parts of the list. The figures were pretty evenly
distributed, there being no case of four consecutive numbers,
without at least one value opposite to them.

     The difference in weight of the brass and the facsimile piece of
wood was found to be 6,259 grains, and the distance of the axis
of the instrument from the axis of the whirling machine 28 feet

11 inches.

Taking these values for                                         first approximation we obtain
v
        v*

                                                a
000510 for the value of the moment expressed in feet and

Ibs., being in miles per hour.

240 CONCORDANT VALUES OF PRESSURE ON CUPS

The experiments were made at temperatures ranging from

60 to 70 F. and mostly between 60 and 65, and at a pressure

ranging from 29 '80 ins. to 30*00 ins.

One more correction is necessary ; the cup which was concave

to the wind was inside, and hence the above value is rather too-

low. Reference to the table of wind moments for a single cup in

various positions, given in a preceding report, will show that this

correction should be about T5 per cent., and hence that '0005523t> 2

is the value of the moment due to the wind pressure upon the in-

strument. This result is in close agreement with that deduced
Ifrom the experiments upon a single cup, and may, think, be
Itaken as very nearly correct.
                                think also that no greater depar-

ture than 3 per cent, from the mean value occurs in any relative

position of the wind direction and the cups.

                                              W. H. DINES.

     Upon the conclusion of these experiments the instrument at
Holyhead was dismounted, and it is being reconstructed with the

cups arranged spirally on the spindle, as explained above.

    The foregoing experiments of Mr Dines have given such
valuable results that the Council have requested him to continue
his investigations, with the aid of a further grant of money. This
series of experiments was to be on the resistance of plates of
various forms at oblique incidences of the wind, and a memo-

randum of suggestions, as to the line which the experiments
should take, was drawn up by Professor Darwin. The account of

this work will fall into the annual report of an ensuing year, and

it must here suffice to say that the results have proved of the
highest interest, and are to be communicated to the Royal

Society*.

      EXPERIMENTS WITH VIOLLE'S ACTINOMETER APPARATUS.

     The Boules conjuguees of M. Violle are an instrument for
readily measuring the solar radiation. Like the sun thermometer,

     * A paper containing an account of the experiments was read before the Royal
Society on June 19th, 1890. [" On wind pressure upon an inclined surface." By
W. H. Dines. Communicated by the Meteorological Council. Roy. Soc. Proc. vol.
xlviii. (June 12, 1890), pp. 233258. Further experiments with the bridled
anemometer, by Mr Curtis, are described infra.}

TESTING OF VIOLLE'S TYPE OF ACTINOMETER      241

as ordinarily used, it gives a relative measurement of the total
radiation effect of the sun and sky, in excess of the air tempera-
ture ; but according to the theory of its action as described by the
inventor, with proper precautions, it may be made to furnish that
of the solar intensity alone in terms of absolute units. Its prin-^
ciple is the same as that of the blackened and uncoated sun
thermometers, used in conjunction, the theory of which has been
given by Ferrel, and it is used in the same manner, viz., by
exposure to the sun until its temperature has become constant.

    It consists of two thin hollow copper spheres, the one coated

with lamp black, the other gilt, which surround the bulbs of two
thermometers precisely similar in all respects. The interior of the

copper spheres and the bulbs of the enclosed thermometers are

coated with lamp black. They are exposed to the sun, side by

side, and when the temperatures have become constant readings

of the two thermometers are taken, and at the same time the tem-
perature of the air is observed with a sling thermometer. From
these three observations the radiation coefficient is computed by a

simple formula or taken from a table.
     Theoretically the excess temperatures of the blackened and gilt

spheres above that of the air should bear a constant proportion to
each other, both varying directly with the quantity of heat received
in the unit of time by radiation. The object of the tests now
being applied at Kew is to ascertain whether this condition is
fulfilled in practice, or whether such small variations in the coat-
ing of the spheres and the enclosed bulbs, in the circumstances of
exposure, &c., as are unavoidable with different instruments, or
with the same instruments at different times, seriously impair the
constancy and comparability of the registers. For this purpose
two pairs of spheres are now under trial, and the readings of the

four thermometers will be compared with each other to see if their

relative values are sensibly constant ; whether, in short, the in-
strument is one that can be placed in the hands of meteorological
observers, who have had no special training in a physical laboratory,
in the expectation that the results will be more satisfactory than

those yielded by the ordinary sun thermometer*.

    [* There is an extensive correspondence with H. F. Blanford on these tests,
and on Balfour Stewart's actinometers which- were employed for some time in the

Himalayas.]

S. B. II.                                16

242 HISTORY OF THE HAEMONIC ANALYSER

ON THE WORK DONE WITH THE HARMONIC ANALYSER AT THE
                                 METEOROLOGICAL OFFICE.

     The Harmonic Analyser was designed by Sir William Thomson
in 1878. Full details of the principle of the instrument will be

found in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, Vols. xxiv. p. 262,
and xxvii. p. 371 ; while a description of the machine as con-

structed for this Office, and also of the method of its employment,

is given in Vol. XL. p. 382*. Reports as to the method of employ-

ing the machine will be found in the Reports of the Meteorological

Council for the years 1880, 1881, 1883, and 1885.

The hope was at first entertained that the machine would

admit of the labour involved in making the hourly measurements

of the photographic traces being dispensed with, and that the har-

monic constants could by means of the machine be derived directly

from the curves.

For some time after the machine had been delivered at the

is [*Office only experimental work was carried on with                                                                               for the
                       a

                                                       is

                                                                                                                                   6,

                                                                                           it,

                                                                                                                         is
double purpose of determining the constants of the machine and

the reliability of its results, and also of familiarizing the operator

with its use.

The analysis of the thermograms for the year 1876 was first

taken in hand, because for that year the mean hourly values of

temperature had been calculated, from the published hourly values

for the seven observatories, and the data were thus supplied from

which the results obtained by the use of the machine could be

compared with results obtained by computation. As this was the

first operation in which the machine was brought into continuous

use, the results were submitted to an examination by Prof. Stokes,
who instituted " a more searching comparison between the results

obtained by the machine and those got by calculation than had

previously been possible from the available data," with the object

of ascertaining whether there was in them any indication of

systematic errors, and to what extent they might be relied upon

as correct.

" On the working of the Harmonic Analyser at the Meteorological Office," by

R. H. Scott and R. H. Curtis. Roy. Soc. Proc. vol. xl. (May 1886), pp. 382-392.
It explained that the instrument
                                  on Lord Kelvin's model, with some details in

the mechanical arrangements that were worked out by Prof. Stokes and Mr de la Rue.

An account of discussion of temperature curves made by the instrument given

in the paper.]

             RELIABILITY OF THE HARMONIC ANALYSER                      243

The conclusions arrived at, together with the figures upon

which they are based, were published by the Meteorological Office
in 1884 as an Appendix to the Quarterly Weather Report for 1876,

p. [39], the concluding paragraphs of which are as follows :
     " Disregarding now the systematic character of some of the

errors, and treating them as purely casual, we get as the average

difference between the constants as got by the machine and by

calculation from the 24-hourly means 0'065. It may be noticed,

however, that the numbers are unusually large (and at the same
time very decidedly systematic) in the case of the second cylinder

of the first order, for which the average is as much as 0*125, the
Ifeighth of a degree.
                       ^ be omitted, the average for the remaining

cylinders of the machine is reduced to 047.
     " We see, therefore, that with the exception perhaps of 61} the

constants got by the machine for the mean of the days constituting

a month are as accurate as those got by calculation which requires

considerably more time, inasmuch as the hourly lines have to be

drawn on the photograms, then measured, then meaned, and the

constants deduced from the means by a numerical process by no

means very short."

While these preliminary trials had been going on it had not

been thought expedient to discontinue making the hourly measure-

ments of the curves and publishing the hourly values thus obtained,
but hourly means were not computed. At the same time General

Strachey, F.R.S., had been occupied in computing the harmonic

constants of the entire series of barometric and thermometric

observations made at Greenwich for the 20 years between 1849
and 1868, and as he was desirous of obtaining as complete data as

possible for comparison with those he had obtained, it was con-
sidered that the satisfactory results of the treatment of the photo-
grams of 1876 justified the extension of the use of the machine to
the whole series of records of the seven observatories, which in the

absence of computed hourly mean values could not otherwise be

dealt with.

The analysis of the temperature records for the 12 years

1871 1882 was therefore carried out, and the results were

published in 1886 as an appendix to the volume of "Hourly
Readings" for the year 1883, in which the harmonic constants

of the diurnal march of temperature at each of the seven observa-

tories are given for every month and year of the period.

                                                                  162

244 USE OF HARMONIC ANALYSER DISCONTINUED

     Subsequently the barograms for the same period were similarly
dealt with, but the results have riot yet been published.

    With a view of obtaining as complete a knowledge as possible

of the reliance that can be put on the results derived from
the machine, a further set of trials has been carried out by

Mr R. Curtis, which are described in the supplementary note

which is annexed.
     After careful consideration of the results of this further

examination of the operation of the machine, the Council have
been induced to modify their former opinions regarding its
practical application. For since they have decided to publish
the hourly numerical mean values, which are necessarily derived
from the measurements of the curves, there is no room to doubt

that the harmonic constants can be derived from these mean
values arithmetically with less labour and with greater accuracy
than by the use of the machine, while the results can be far more
readily and completely checked.

     The Council being of opinion that the harmonic analysis of
the chief meteorological phenomena should invariably follow the
computation of the requisite mean values, they have, for the
reasons above stated, resolved that the analysis shall be made by
arithmetical computation, while the use of the machine will be
reserved for special occasions when its use may be found desirable.

     [In the  RvbaeylpuoaMrbtrleoRf."thHRee. MpCoeurttertoiursop,loofngoilcloAawlneeCdmooubmnyceitl"eDr1e8s9Ec7xr-pi8pe,trioipmnpe. n2ot1sf-3th0ae,t
there is a
Holyhead "
Bridled Anemometer designed by Sir G. G. Stokes." The report
institutes a comparison, on the basis of prolonged observations,
between four types of anemometer, viz. pressure-tube, bridled,

pressure-plate, and Robinson standard.
For the sake of completeness the greater part of this report is

here reproduced*.]

Comparison of the Pressure-Tube and Robinson Cup Anemometers.

     In the Report of the Office for the year 1896 an account was
given of a comparison which had then recently been carried out

between the records of the cup anemometer and the corresponding

     [* For completion of this record reference should also be made to a series of
experiments made at the National Physical Laboratory by Dr Stanton in 1904 and
published in the Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.]

IMPORTANCE OF FREE EXPOSURE FOR ANEMOMETERS  245

records of the pressure-tube anemometer on Salt Island, the result
of which was to show : first, that upon the average wind velocities
recorded by the cup anemometer were about 27 per cent, higher
than the records of the same winds as obtained from the pressure-

tube, thus pointing to the necessity for a modification of the factor

employed for converting the movement of the cups into equivalent
wind-velocities ; and, secondly, that in addition to this, the indica-

tions of the cup instrument were further greatly influenced by the
railway sheds, grouped around the base of the lighthouse, on the

top of which this particular anemometer is placed. A plan of

the pier arid sheds had been given in the Report for 1895, and,
briefly stated, it was now shown that .when the direction of the
wind was such as to cause it to blow through the sheds, from end
to end, the result was to suck down air from the anemometer,

whose record was in consequence decreased and brought below

that of the pressure-tube ; whilst when the wind blew against the

closed sides of the sheds it was deflected upwards, over their roofs,
causing more than the normal amount of air to pass over the cups,
with the result that their record became correspondingly increased
beyond that of the pressure-tube ; it was only when the direction
of the wind was such that the current of air neither blew directly
through, nor against, the sides of the sheds, but in such a way as
to slip past them, that the records of the two anemometers agreed.

     The result was of considerable practical importance, as it

proved the absolute necessity for securing a perfectly free and
uninfluenced exposure for anemometers, in order to obtain from
them a true record of the strength of the wind, and at the same

time showed that causes hitherto quite unsuspected were capable

of affecting their records in a very marked degree.
     The consistent character of the results obtained left very little

doubt as to their accuracy, although the number of observations

available for the comparison was not so large as could have been

wished, owing to the pressure-tube anemometer having been at

work for a few months only. Now, however, there is a fairly large
mass of data available for further testing the conclusions arrived
at in 1896, and therefore it has been thought desirable to repeat

the comparison with observations made subsequent to the publica-
tion of the previous report. Of course the question of the proper
factor for the cup anemometer is to some extent involved in the
investigation, and the wind velocities by that instrument have all

246 INFLUENCE OF IMPERFECT EXPOSURE TO WIND

been dealt with upon the assumption that its true factor is not
3*0 but 2*2 ; but it has not been thought necessary to re-open the
question further as regards this particular instrument, because if

the conclusions already arrived at respecting the effect of the

sheds upon it are confirmed, it follows that its exposure at Holy-

head is not sufficiently good to admit of its giving a satisfactory

answer upon the point*.
     In the present instance one hundred observations of moderate

or fresh winds were taken under each of the 16 points of the com-

passf, and the mean velocity as given by the two instruments was

determined for each point. The results are given in the following
             and are also shown graphically in Fig. II. [omitted].
tTable
        ;
        I.,The results now obtained fully confirm those got by the previous

comparison, the only differences worthy of note being:

     (1) That the maximum plus difference shown under South,
instead of South-south-east, and that amounts to only 15 per
                                    it
                                            is

cent, instead of 22 per cent.; and

(2) That the minus difference under East        is  increased to 20

per cent, instead of 13 per cent. Generally, the differences,                   if  put

in the form of a curve, are seen to be more symmetrical than
before, and those for opposite points, as North and South, and
East and West, which are due to a similar kind of action, now

approximate more closely to each other as regards amount these
                                                                                ;

changes are doubtless due to the smoothing effect of the larger

number of observations has been possible to use on the present
             it

occasion.

The figures in this table demonstrate very clearly the necessity

     * Various attempts have been made to obtain the factor of the Robinson cupa
anemometer by comparing its records with those of pressure-tube anemometera

placed by its side, and run under exactly similar conditions. Such comparison,a
extending over three years, has been carried out at Rousdon Observatory, in South
Devon and another, covering period of eight months, at the Colaba Observatory,
Bombay. In both these instances the cup anemometer was similar to the one in

use at Holyhead. The Rousdon comparison gave as the mean factor '2), and the
Colaba comparison (2-1). The Rousdon observations covered much larger range
of wind-force than did those at Bombay, and is probable that the relation between
the speed of the cups and that of the wind affected both by the force of the wind,
and by its steadiness or otherwise; and also by the conditions attaching to each
instrument in situ so far as they affect the question of friction and the amount of
work required to be done by the cups in registration.

        So many as 100 observations could not be obtained with winds from E.S.E.
and S.E.
                 is
                    it
                                                    a

                                                                            (2

           COMPARISON OF BRIDLED CUPS WITH PRESSURE-TUBE 247

 there is for having a perfectly free exposure for anemometers, in
 order to get from them the true velocity of the wind. With in-
 struments which require a mechanical connection between the
 recording apparatus and the parts acted upon by the wind, this
is frequently a difficult condition to secure, and the question is
 opened up as to how far, and in what way, existing anemometrical
records derived from instruments placed on buildings, as all large-
sized cup-anemometers are, have been affected by the obstruction
offered by those buildings to the free passage of the wind. The
conditions at Holyhead are no doubt exceptional, and their effect,
as shown by the diagram, is of course peculiar to that place ; but
it is to be feared that in other instances also the buildings, or
other objects, in the close neighbourhood of the anemometers, are
such as to affect their records prejudicially.

Comparison of the Pressure-Tube and the " Bridled " Anemometers.

      These two instruments have now been at work side by side for
nearly three years, and although during that time they have not
experienced any gale of exceptional violence, yet they have afforded
a good deal of material for making a comparison between their

records.

    A description of the bridled anemometer will be found on

p. 28, and therefore it will suffice to say here that it measures the
force of the wind through the resistance offered, by some weights,
to the turning of a set of five cups, arranged spirally upon a vertical
spindle, and exposed to the wind. The pressure-tube anemometer,
on the other hand, achieves the same end by the displacement of
a specially-shaped float, contained in a closed vessel of water, but
communicating with the air by means of a tube, leading to a vane
which is kept constantly facing the wind.

     The bridled anemometer was not designed to register light
winds, and therefore it is unaffected by any wind of lower
velocity than 20 miles per hour, and the inertia of the instru-
ment is not entirely overcome until the velocity has risen to fully
30 miles per hour; but with stronger winds than this its indica-
tions are found to agree very closely with those of the pressure-

tube. It sometimes happens, in sudden and transient squalls,

that the gust begins to abate before the float of the pressure-tube
has had time to fill and rise to its proper height, in which case

248 DESCRIPTION OF PRESSURE-PLATE

that instrument fails to record the maximum force which is shown
by the bridled anemometer, whose cups respond at once to the
wind, and indeed may occasionally, as a result of their inertia, be
carried somewhat beyond the proper point. Such differences,
however, seldom exceed a rate of two or three miles per hour, and

only occur with very transient gusts of wind ; if the gust lasts for
but a few seconds, or if it is at once followed by another of equal

force, as not infrequently happens, then the float has time to fill,
and the two records agree.

    It may therefore be said that, as regards the range of wind-

force which has been covered by the observations made in this
comparison, the indications of the two instruments are practically
identical.

     The value of the comparison lies very much in the mutual
support which the records of the two instruments each obtained
in a different way, although by the application of a similar prin-
ciple, afford to each other, and in the confidence in their accuracy
which their agreement supplies.

  Comparison of the Pressure-Tube and the new Pressure-Plate

                                            Anemometers.

     The most recently erected anemometer at Holyhead is a
pressure-plate, the recording portion of which has been arranged
upon a somewhat novel plan.

     The plate itself is a thin circular disc of aluminium, of one
square foot area, and is supported, at the height of 26 feet above
the ground, upon an iron column, which stands only a few feet
away from the pressure-tube and the bridled instruments. The
plate turns freely in azimuth, and is kept facing the wind by a fin-
shaped vane, which is placed about two feet in the rear of the
plate and rises a little above its top edge ; by this arrangement
not only is the vane not sheltered by the plate, but any interfer-
ence with the free movement of the air flowing around the edges
of the plate is avoided.

      The apparatus is designed to register only the maximum
pressure exerted by the wind upon the plate since the last ob-
servation, and after every reading of the scale the index requires
to be reset. Readings are therefore made only at definite times,
usually once a day, except in stormy weather, when they would be

           EXCESSIVE READINGS DUE TO INERTIA AVOIDED             249

made as frequently as possible ; but owing to the remote position

of the instrument the number of observations is necessarily re-

stricted.

The action of the instrument will be best understood by the
aid of the accompanying diagrams, Figures III.
Figure III. shows a section of the plate (P), to  and  IV. [omitted].
                                                  the  back of which

is fastened a tube (T), which, by means of friction rollers, slides

easily to and fro in the slightly larger tube C. To this sliding

tube a chain is attached, and as the plate and tube are together

driven back by the wind this chain pulls upon the spring shown

in Fig. IV., p. 25, which is securely fastened inside the column at

a point where it can be easily seen by the observer. The exten-

sion of the spring which is thus effected is shown by a brass bar

graduated to indicate pounds, and having on each edge a ratchet

and pawl, so arranged that after the spring has been extended it

cannot go back again, but must remain extended until the pawl

is released by the observer. By this arrangement the maximum

pressure is reached gradually, pound by pound, and any error in

the record due to the momentum of the plate, acting under the

influence of sudden sharp gusts, is avoided.

     In pressure-plates which are free to oscillate to and fro with

each gust of wind, as is usually the case, the chance of error from

the momentum of the plate is very great, and there is little doubt

that from this cause such plates in gusty winds often travel a con-

siderable distance in excess of the proper amount, giving rise to

records of wind-pressures which are not really experienced.

Owing to a fault which became developed in the bearing of the

vane, soon after its erection, the instrument had to be dismounted

again, and it was not until the end of January, 1898, that it came

regularly into work. The number of observations at present avail-

able is therefore not very large, and as the strongest winds of the

year were experienced whilst the instrument was out of action the

number does not include any very high pressures ; but the results

of the comparison, so far as it has gone, are very interesting.

The method adopted has been to compare with each reading of

the pressure-plate the maximum pressure indicated by the pressure-

tube during the interval covered by the reading. These observa-

tions were then grouped according to the pressure-plate readings,

and the mean equivalent by the tube found for each pound of

pressure recorded by the plate ; these equivalent pressures,

250 RELATION OF PLATE TO TUBE PRESSURES

together with the number of observations from which they were

determined, are shown in the following Table II. [omitted].

     Speaking generally, it may be said that these equivalent tube
values are all about 25 per cent, above the values actually recorded

by the plate. It will be remembered that, from the construction

of the instrument, increments of pressure of less than a pound are
not registered ; and therefore a given reading may always have
been exceeded by any amount short of another pound, without
such excess being registered. For example, a recorded pressure
of 4 pounds must be taken as indicating that the effective pres-
sure of the wind upon the plate not only reached that amount

but may have been anything between it and 5 pounds. Bearing
this in mind it will be seen from the diagram, Fig. V. [omitted]

that the equivalent pressures obtained by the comparison, so far

as it has gone, fall very well between the limits above stated, after
adding 25 per cent, to the actual readings of the spring. The
friction of the moving parts, although very slight, is probably the
cause of the rather higher equivalents obtained for the lowest-

pressures.
     The wind on striking a plane surface, such as the pressure-

plate now used, does not exert all over it a uniform pressure, but
a pressure which diminishes from the centre to the edge, in a ratio
determined by the size and shape of the surface, and probably by
the strength of the air current also*. By placing a rim round the
edge of the plate, so as to stop the ready outflow of air from its
surface, the pressures recorded would be considerably increased
for all winds ; the conditions would then approximate closely with
those which exist in the pressure-tube, and it is probable that the
records of the two instruments would under those conditions nearly

agree.

     The number of observations with strong winds is as yet far too
small to warrant the drawing of any final conclusions ; but so far
as the results of this comparison go at present, it seems pretty
clear that with pressure-plate anemometers of the ordinary con-
struction, the momentum of the plate has been the cause of some
misconception as to the frequency with which high pressures are
reached ; and secondly, that, even when this source of error is
guarded against, it is not safe to accept the records of anemometers
of that type, as being reliable records of the wind-pressures actually

        * See Quarterly Journal Royal Meteorological Society, vols. viii. and ix.

THE RECORDING OF GUSTS  251

experienced, until they have been corrected for the effect of the
slipping of the air over their surfaces and past their edges. In
the case of a circular plate of one square foot area there is reason

to suppose that the loss of effective pressure upon the plate from

this cause is equal to about 25 per cent, of the actual pressure the

wind current is capable of exerting, but at present there are no

data to show how this may be modified in the case of larger plates,
or of plates of other shapes.

         Description of the Bridled Anemometer designed by
                        Sir G. G. Stokes, Bart, F.R.S.

     Although the bridled anemometer has been at work ever since
the year 1880 it does not appear that any detailed description of
it has yet been published, the references to it which have been
made from time to time in the publications of the Office having
usually been very brief and general in character.

     The portion of the instrument which is acted upon by the wind
consists of five hemispherical copper cups, each of which is fixed
by a short strong arm to a vertical spindle, around which they were
originally placed equidistantly and in the same horizontal plane ;
after a time, however (in the year 1890), the cups were re-arranged
spirally, so as to prevent any possibility of one cup sheltering
another.

     The special aim of Sir G. Stokes was to get a measure of the
strength of the wind in gusts; and this he sought to do by attach-
ing to the spindle a weight, which would have to be lifted as the
spindle turned under the influence of the wind acting upon the
cups, the weight being sufficiently heavy to prevent the cups from
making a complete revolution in the strongest gust they would be
likely to experience.

     To achieve this the spindle is brought, through bearings fitted
with friction rollers, into the room in which the recording appa-
ratus is placed, and its lower end is fitted with a pair of snails.
The load to be lifted by the cups is divided into two equal parts,
and is suspended on each side of the spindle by flexible cords,
which pass from the spindle over a pulley to the weight, and back
over another pulley to the spindle again, where each is fastened to
the root of one of the snails. As the cups turn the weight is lifted,
and the cord in each case is wound upon the periphery of the

252 MECHANISM OF BRIDLED ANEMOMETER

snail, the extra resistance thus gained being in accordance with

the well-ascertained fact that the pressure of the wind varies with

the square of the velocity ; the record obtained is therefore one of

velocity, and its scale is an uniform one throughout.

The record is secured in a very simple manner. Immediately

below the spindle, and co-axial with  it,       cylinder, upon which     a
                                         is
                                            it a
sheet of paper can be placed and to the bottom of the spindle
                  is
itself fixed an arm, bent so as to allow to sweep around the
; if is                     ;
cylinder as the spindle turns, and having at its lower end a pen
       is
          awhich can be kept in contact with the paper the amplitude of
              is                                  ;

every turn of the spindle therefore shown by the length of the

corresponding line the pen leaves upon the paper.

The cylinder forms the driving weight of the clock by which its

descent regulated, and the abscissae of the trace thus become

the time-scale, while the horizontal ordinates give the force of the

wind. By simple arrangement the rate of descent of the cylinder

can, desired, be doubled, and the time-scale correspondingly

opened, and this enlarged scale       generally employed in strong
                                 is
                                        is

                                                                      a
gales there also an arrangement by means of which the time-

scale can be still further enlarged by substituting hydraulic

arrangement for the clock, but this   very rarely used.

SABINE'S DETECTION OF SPECIFIC FRICTION IN GASES 253

PENDULUMS AND GRAVITY SURVEYS.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR EDWARD SABINE.

                             CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 16th, 1850.

DEAR COL. SABINE,

               Perhaps you may recollect speaking to me once at

Prof. Miller's about pendulum experiments. In your paper " On
the Reduction to a Vacuum of the Vibrations of an Invariable

Pendulum," Phil. Trans. 1829, in speaking of the results to which

you had arrived by a comparison of the vibrations in an exhausted

receiver, in air at the atmospheric pressure, and in hydrogen, you
add (p. 232) " Should the existence of such a distinct property of

resistance, varying in the different elastic fluids, be confirmed by
Iexperiments now in progress with other gases, &c."
                                                     have not

Imet with any further notice of these experiments, but you told

me on the occasion have mentioned that the experiments showed

that the retardation could not at all be inferred from the density,

in passing from one elastic fluid to another.

   I INow wish to know (supposing, as believe is the case, that

the experiments have not been published) whether you would

Ihave any objection to my stating in a paper read before the

Cambridge Philosophical Society that had been informed by

you that the experiments here alluded to fully established the
existence of a specific action in elastic fluids quite distinct from

mere variations of density.

   IThe paper allude to was read at the last meeting of the

Carnb. Phil. Soc. It contains the calculation of the resistance to

a pendulum in the two cases of a sphere and of a long cylindrical
rod, when the internal friction, as it may be called, of the fluid is

taken into account. The agreement of theory with Baily's experi-

ments is very striking. I hope in the course of a few months to

be able to send you a copy.

                             Yours very truly,

                             G. G. STOKES.

254 PROPOSED EXPERIMENTS ON VISCOSITY OF AIR

                                                     CAMBRIDGE, Jan. 10th, 1851.

I am much obliged by your mention of the additional experi-

ments on the specific action of different elastic fluids on the
Ivibrations of a pendulum.
                             was not aware that they had been

interrupted, and thought that you had forgotten to publish the

results.

As to the existence of a specific action, I am quite prepared

isto expect    and therefore believe in              is it    even on the strength
         it,
of the two hydrogen experiments alone. In fact,               find that
                                                              I
though Baily's results are at variance with the common theory
                                                                      a
of fluid motion, in which the pressure supposed equal in all                    is

directions in a fluid, or, which comes to the same, in which the

fluid supposed to be perfectly smooth, they agree beautifully

with the formulas to which have been led by employing theory
                     I

in which what may be called the internal friction of the fluid

taken into account. In this theory                   it       supposed that a con-

                                                          is

tinuous sliding motion of the fluid calls into play a tangential

pressure proportional to the rate of sliding. Thus, imagine a fluid

to flow in horizontal layers, the velocity increasing uniformly from

the ground upwards, so that the layers of fluid which are at one

time arranged like   after certain time come to be arranged
I
             II

                                         ^

                    I I I |j
                                               is a
                                    a if
like ^===T; then suppose that, you draw any imaginary hori-

zontal plane through the fluid, the motions of fluid above and

below the plane act tangentially on one another thus ^. The
tangential pressure for a sliding unity, referred to a unit of surface,

and divided by the density,                        constant depending upon the

nature of the fluid, which propose to call the index of friction

of the fluid.

should like to be able to determine by pendulum experiments
Ifthe index of friction for different gases.
                                                              your apparatus were

-erected at Kew, think might go there for the purpose some

time in the summer.  should however want to make some

preliminary experiments on vibrations in air, especially with the
view of testing the theory by its application to the calculation
of the rate of decrease of the arc of vibration. These experiments

would also require a vacuum apparatus.

                     Believe me, Yours very truly,
                                                G. G. STOKES.

ELIMINATION OF AIR-RESISTANCE TO PENDULUMS  255

CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 9th, 1863.

IThank you for the two letters, which  kept in order to

enter fully into the subject, and refer to Bessel's memoir, which

I have got.

     The methods for eliminating the effect of the air may be

divided into three, of which again the third, when considered in

its details, branches off into two.

      1st, There is the direct method, which you have recommended,
of swinging the pendulum in vacuo. This would seem to be the
most exact of all, on account of the collateral advantage that the
very process which removes from the result the influence of the
air on the time of vibration removes also its influence on the arc

of vibration, so that the time during which the pendulum swings
through an arc large enough for the observation of coincidences is

greatly prolonged.
     2nd. There is the method you employed of swinging the

pendulum in air and in vacuo, and so determining the factor by

which the correction for buoyancy must be multiplied. This
method recommends itself by its extreme convenience, as the

determination is made once for all at some fixed observatory.

The influence, if any, of temperature on the value of the correcting

factor has yet to be determined experimentally, but its effect
would probably be insensible in the case of heavy pendulums,
such as those used in determining the variation of gravity or its

absolute value at a particular place.

     3rd, There remains Bessel's method, a very elegant one in
principle, to construct a pendulum which is symmetrical in figure
but not in mass, and in which further the dimensions and masses

of the parts are so chosen that one centre of suspension (repre-
sented by a knife-edge) shall be at the same distance from one
end that the centre of oscillation (represented as approximately as
may be by the other knife-edge) is from the other.

    It is easy to prove that such a pendulum if rigorously con-

vertible in air at a standard pressure and temperature would not
be convertible in vacuo, and even changes in the barometer would

affect its rigorous convertibility. It becomes then a question how

the error of convertibility is to be dealt with.
     (a) The pendulum might be furnished with a small weight,

adjustable by a screw, by means of which it could be rendered

256 USE OF REVERSIBLE PENDULUM

convertible by trial. This however would destroy the rigorous

invariability of the pendulum, and would involve tedious trials

at each station, and ought I think decidedly to be rejected. An

adjustable weight might be used in the construction of the
instrument, but when once adjusted it ought not to be further

Itouched. should rather however that the adjustment were made

by filing.

   If(b) (a) be rejected it remains to have the times of vibration

round the two knife-edges respectively subject to a minute dis-

crepancy, and from them deduce the time of vibration of an

invariable pendulum.
     According to Bessel's notation (p. 97 of his memoir " Unter-

suchungen iiber die Lange des einfachen Sekundenpendels "),

let ra be the mass of the pendulum, m that of the air displaced,
K/jun the moment of inertia of the pendulum,
                                                                                                an unknown
Kquantity, representing the square of a line, such that in repre-

sents the moment of inertia of the fictitious mass which we must

conceive added to the pendulum to allow for the inertia of the

air set in motion, S the distance of the centre of gravity of

the pendulum from one knife-edge, (suppose that nearest to

ithe lighter bob,) Si the distance from the other knife-edge,

S' t = ($ + Si), the distance of the centre of gravity of the figure
from either knife-edge, I, l (which are very nearly equal) the

lengths  of the isochronous simple pendulum ; then

               -I (mS m'S') = m(p + S 2) + m'K,
              -li (mSi m'S') = m (p + Sf) + m'K.

Subtracting, and observing that in the small terms multiplied by

                     l = we have

                     -mS mSi = m (S S^),

                       l8-l = -S
m we may suppose     I                                                                          (1).
or
                         .

                             li,
                                   li
                                    l18 .
                                              Sa

                                                                                   1z 2

Let be the observed times of vibration, r the time for
         t,                                                                                           a
            ti
simple pendulum whose length =  SS+      the distance between the
                  ;
                                    lS

knife-edges then

                     - ~= tf =~A    +2
                                    T
                     t2               & '

Whence substituting in (1) and dividing by + we have                                        Si
                                                                                         S

                           SENSITIVENESS OF METHOD                          257

Now t, ti t r are so very nearly equal that the squares of their

differences may be neglected. We have then

        ss, ss;7-2 = *2 +                           (t ~ ^ nearly>
                           (*2 ~ tf) = <?+

                           T=t+             (t-ti)                      (2),

                           T=; St

     Of course S and 81 cannot be measured with the same accuracy
as S + S1, which is the distance of the knife-edges. But the
quantity t 1 by which the ratio of Si to S Si is multiplied

in (2) is so extremely small that the error thence resulting in the

value of T is insensible.

    We see from (2) that the time r which corresponds to the

distance S + Si of the knife-edges is by no means the mean

        of the observed times. The formula (2)
^ (t +  ti)                                 t                           equally
                                                        ti
            t
                       ti                                           is
applicable whether the difference between and arises from an

original defect of adjustment, or from a change in the state of the

air, supposed however to be the same for both swings.

     The formula (2) put under the form (3) shows that equal
errors in and affect T in the proportion of to Si. But given

error in the observed time of a coincidence will affect the deduced
                                   h

                                                    S

                                                                                 a
                                                                                             a
time of vibration in inverse proportion to the length of the swing,

which in the two cases will be as to hi, supposing the initial and

final arcs given, and the full cause of decrement to be the resist-

ance of the air; so that a given error in the observation of

coincidence would affect the result to the same extent whether

it  belonged to a swing with heavy end below or with heavy
end above, notwithstanding the more rapid decrement of arc
in the latter case, and consequent shortening in the time of

observation.

                           Believe me, Yours very truly,

                                                    G. G. STOKES.

    S. B. II.                                                           17

258 REPORT ON INDIAN PENDULUM SURVEY

      To THE INDIA OFFICE.

                                       THE ROYAL SOCIETY,
                                              February 13th, 1871.

SIR,

      With reference to your letter dated October 3, 1870,
Iaddressed to the Secretary of the Royal Society,
                                                   have the

honour to inform you, for the information of His Grace the Duke

of Argyll, that the enclosure therein contained, drawn up by
Colonel Walker, R.E., describing the progress of the pendulum

observations now being carried on by Captain Basevi in connexion

with the operations of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India,

and the measures which it is proposed to take in order to complete

the same, has been communicated to several of our most eminent

scientific men, with an invitation to them to make any remarks or

suggestions thereon that they might think fit. It has also been

read at a meeting of the Royal Society, and is now published in

No. 124 of the Proceedings.

Great judgment appears to have been exercised in the choice

of stations, which is such as fully to carry out the intentions of

the Royal Society ; and the observations appear to have been made

with a scrupulous regard to accuracy.

In the preliminary abstract of results drawn up by Captain

Basevi, a noticeable feature is one which has already been observed

in comparing the results of pendulum observations made in other

parts of the earth, namely, that at inland stations gravity appears

to be in defect of that observed at coast stations in similar

latitudes. In connexion with this law, which the present observa-

tions help to confirm, but of which the cause is still uncertain, it

is very satisfactory that Colonel Walker has been enabled to

include in the series an oceanic station (the island of Minicoy),
where, in conformity with what the law would lead us to expect,

an increase of gravity has actually been obtained.

    It seems desirable that advantage should be taken of Captain

Basevi's return by the Overland Route for swinging the pendulums

at Aden and in Egypt, according to Colonel Walker's programme,

not only because by a comparatively small expenditure of time

and labour the value of gravity will be ascertained at two stations
remote from any for which it has hitherto been experimentally

VERIFICATION OF THE INDIAN PENDULUMS                                     259

determined, but also for the sake of comparison with the results
obtained at stations of similar latitude in India.

     One slight addition to Colonel Walker's programme appears
to be desirable, namely, after Captain Basevi's return to swing
the pendulums at Kew as well as at Greenwich ; at Greenwich for
the reasons mentioned by Colonel Walker, at Kew because it was

there that the pendulums were swung immediately before de-
parture, and a repetition of the experiment would afford a test

of the invariability of the pendulums, on which the value of the

whole series materially depends.

                         HARBOUR HOUSE, PORTPATRICK,
                                                     August 23rd, 1873.

MY DEAR SIR EDWARD [SABINE]

             Dr Robinson has shown me your letter to him, enclosing
copy of a letter from you to Col. Walker, and inviting remarks on

the latter from him and from me.

   I Ihave talked to Dr Robinson on the subject. As am writing

in a room by myself, it will be most convenient to ask you to

Iconsider me alone as responsible for the following remarks, which
   will submit to Dr Robinson for approval or otherwise, or to

supplement by any additional remarks he may have to offer.

    1. I think it very desirable that the elaborate series of

pendulum experiments made in connexion with the great Trigo-
nometrical Survey of India should be connected with an absolute

determination.

   I2. think it very desirable that the absolute value of the

length of the seconds' pendulum should be ascertained from Kew,

as a head station for physical experiments ; such experiments as
could not be carried on at the National Observatory, the duties

connected with which are observational rather than experimental.

     3. To check the Indian work by testing the invariability of
the pendulums during use, it is essential that the pendulums
should be swung at Kew after their return as they were before
their departure. This is contained in the programme already

agreed to.
      4. Assuming No. 3, nothing is required for No. 2 beyond what

is essential for No. 1.

                                      172

260 GRAVITY COMPARISONS AT KEW AND GREENWICH

5. Nos. 1, 2 may be satisfied in either of two ways : either

(a) by a fresh absolute determination, or (6) by determining gravity
at Kew relatively to some other station where a good absolute

determination has already been made.

6. There are two such stations, as you mention, where an

absolute determination has been made by yourself, No. 2 Rutland

Place, and a particular part of the Greenwich Observatory.

7. No. 2 Rutland Place, having passed into other private

hands, is presumably no longer available even for a relative de-

termination to be made once for all.

8. The Greenwich Observatory is available for such a deter-

mination. The effect of the massive erections in connexion with
Ithe equatorial need not be feared.
                                        have calculated that an iron

plate under the pendulum one foot thick and extending as far
laterally as you please would affect the length of the seconds'

pendulum  by only about  the         1  th  part  of an inch, or about
                              3 00 000

the ^th part of the length of a wave of light. And the heavy
erections being in great measure of the nature of pillars, extending

both above and below the pendulum, their upward and downward

attractions would nearly neutralize each other.

9. Objects 1, 2 could therefore be effected by a relative

determination at Greenwich as well as Kew. As gravity can be

compared at neighbouring stations (where the risk of damage to

an invariable pendulum in travelling is reduced to a minimum)
more accurately than absolutely determined at either, the previous

absolute determination at Greenwich would thus be in effect

transferred to Kew as well as to the Indian stations.

     10. But as in any case the pendulums must be swung and
the time-determinations made at Kew, and as all the appliances

exist there for measuring the distance of the knife-edges, the only

thing additional required to make the determination absolute, it

would be a great pity to omit the measurements required to make

the determination absolute.

     11. In favour of the comparatively small addition to the

programme thus involved, it may be urged
        1. That the work done by the Officers of the Survey would

thus be rendered complete in itself, instead of having to be supple-

mented, so far as relates to absolute determination, by that of other

observers however eminent.

2. That the absolute determinations made by yourself at

           MODE OF USE OF REVERSIBLE PENDULUM                     261

Greenwich and to be made by the Indian Officers at Kew will

thus check each other, through the intervention of the relative
determination at Greenwich as well as Kew which forms part
of the programme.

    I12. have taken for granted that if a fresh absolute determi-

nation be made at all it will be made at Kew. That such would

Ibe the most convenient course will not presume be disputed.

                     Believe me, yours sincerely

IP.S. have read the above to Dr Robinson, who says he quite

approves of it. He will however write to you himself.

IThanks for your Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism,
No. XIII.    congratulate you on having brought to a successful

conclusion a work which has cost you so much labour.

                                      CAMBRIDGE, 5th Dec., 1873.

     MY DEAR SIR EDWARD [SABINE]

         I am in correspondence with Capt. Heaviside about the
IKater's pendulum. To two of his questions gave unhesitating

answers.

     (1) There is no use in making the vibrations about the two
knife-edges precisely synchronous, though they must be nearly so.

     (2) Take the whole series of swings in earnest (i.e. excluding
short provisional swings to determine the adjustments) in one

position of the slider.

    Let A, B be the knife-edges, A being that with weight below,

h, Ji the distances of the centre of gravity of the whole pendulum,

slider included, from A, B, so that h + h' ( I say) is the measured
distance of the knife-edges ; t, t' the times of vibration for A, B ;

x the required time for strictly synchronous vibrations.  Then

             *-"^                                            a)

?+__ (p_or
             aj * =  > <*)                                (2).

As t, x are very nearly equal, this formula may practically be
n'
replaced byt',

             N=n + j^(n-ri)                               (3)

N, n, being the vibrations per diem.

262 PERFORMANCE OF KATER's PENDULUM

     Now h may be determined very fairly by balancing the
pendulum on its edge, or better by supporting it edgeways a
shade to the heavy side of the centre of gravity, and weighing
the small force at the other end required to keep it horizontal ;

and h + h' may be deemed to be known exactly. Say we can

reckon on getting the factor -= j-f to within the ^oth part. This

would require the distance of the centre of gravity to be known to

^-r                  In            Kater pendulum          h                 about 26 and abouth'
          -A-  ^Q-.      a                                    2 is

/i- ~T~iL                            ^-=
                                                     =-/-
13 inches, and ^w ll ~\~li comes out about ^th of an inch.

Suppose the error of synchronism to be vibrations per diem, and

the error of the factor            y                       lt consequent on the error in the

                                        7

                                       j- /

determination of the centre of gravity, to be ^th. Then the
error in N consequent on the error in the determination of the

centre of gravity                  only ^Ju x = 0*01 of a vibration per diern.
           -fa                                             G

                               is                              2
                                                                        2
Now inch error in place of and vibrations per diem for non-

adjustment to synchronism seem pretty liberal allowances, and

0*01 vibration per diem            is                      well below the probable errors of

observation.         I  think therefore the correction for imperfect syn-

chronism may be deemed perfect, so that the results thus obtained

will be as good as they would have been had n,                                            ri  turned out

exactly equal. The formula (3) shows that the error A^V resulting

from errors An, An' in the vibrations about the knife-edges A, B

given by
is
                                         is h-T- 77 Aft                    r/ An'.

                                                    h
                                                            h
                                                          is h7

                                                                          h
Now in the Kater pattern                                                   about twice as great as h'.

Therefore an error in n twice as influential as an error in n.

Therefore the observer should not divide his time equally between

the two knife-edges, but pay more attention to A. In this respect

think you were quite right, and that Baily in his criticism on
I
your work (Phil. Trans. 1832, 471, top) was wrong. Also,                                          it
          if                                               9 p.                                       is
                                                                                      is
not evident as he states at line that there an anomaly on the

face of the observations. There are two points near the centre

(i.e. middle point, and centre of gravity) of the pendulum between

which          the centre of gravity of the slider be placed, opposite

effects on the times               are produced by slight motion of the
                                   t,
                                      t'
                                                                          a

                     IMPROVED KATER'S PENDULUM                                                                                                263

Islider, and am not sure but that your slider may have been

between these.

    I quite agree with what Baily wrote in the last sentence of
Ip. 470 ; but don't know what particular process he had in view

when he wrote " proper correction, from the known principles of

the pendulum."
     P.S. The formula showing that n, n are both greater or both

less than the true number N belonging to synchronism, which it

    depending on the sign of the tabulated error of synchronism.
But this of no moment.
is,
                 is

                                                 CAMBRIDGE, 6th Dec., 1873.

      If had to construct a Rater's pendulum de novo think
a                                                               B,

     I                                                                B, I

                                    C,                                         C

                                                                                I
would dispense with the sliding weights altogether, and introduce

    third knife-edge the pendulum being constructed so as to be

approximately convertible with respect to A, and                             being

equidistant, or nearly so, from the centre of gravity. The distances

AB, AC being measured, and the three times observed, we have

the data for determining the length of the seconds' pendulum.

The three swing-times being nearly equal would all be convenient
                           Ifone was, which could be easily arranged.
for coincidences     if

                                                                                             C
the pendulum were strictly convertible, the swing-time round

and the length AC would disappear altogether from the result;

and as suppose the pendulum to be very nearly convertible a
    2I
rough determination of the swing-time round and an approximate
measure of AC would suffice. The pendulumt"2 I                  C
                                                                   a
             +
                                                                        is
                                                                                                    a
                                                                     thus made as

good as mathematically convertible, as good as pendulum with

slider in which the adjustment of the slider was known to be

mathematically perfect. There would be no need to swing the

pendulum round                          for longer than the interval between two
                     C

                                                     I
                                                             a
consecutive coincidences.

      find the formula for the length of simple pendulum which

-swings in time x to be                          -cat"*         -+ abt
(at'          U'">V 4- ctH')2           + (bet'                         lac
                               &
                                                                        2abcx* =
                                         t"* p 2
                     a = AB
                                            I \ t2"
                     b=BG
                                                         +
                     c-CM                                                      t2

                                                                                                                    2

                                                                                             )t'2

                                                                                                                                           2
where                                            = gquare of tim

                                                 -= of vibration
                                                              about

264 REDUCED NUMBER OF VARIABLES

    If we put x = 1, I will be the length of the seconds' pendulum,

and will be given by the above quadratic, which has all the
coefficients known quantities, and has one of its roots irrelevant.

If we prefer putting I = c we shall have a quadratic in x1, and x

will be the time of strictly synchronous vibrations about A and B.
     The statical method would not be less accurate, if instead of a

knife-edge G for swinging we introduced near the centre of gravity
a knife-edge pointing sideways for balancing the pendulum like
the beam of a balance, and completed the balance of the pendulum
in a horizontal position by a small riding weight. The weight
and position of the rider combined with the weight of the whole
pendulum gives the horizontal distance (i.e. distance in the direction
of the length of the pendulum) of the centre of gravity from the

knife-edge for balancing; and the distance of the knife-edge for

balancing from either knife-edge for swinging (A or E) can be
measured under the microscope, as the distance of A, B from one

another.

     However with care in the adjustment for synchronism, h can
practically be determined nearly enough without the refinement
of introducing a third knife-edge of either kind.

    Nevertheless I stand up for the principle. In Kater's method

of trusting to the adjustment of the slider, there are two unknown
quantities that have to be determined by the two times of vibration,
namely (a) the error of synchronism, and (ft) the error in the
assumed length of the seconds' pendulum, or, what is equivalent,
the error in the time of vibration assumed to belong to a known
length. Now by merely measuring an additional quantity that
has such little influence on the result that we may deem its
measured value mathematically accurate, we leave but one small
unknown quantity in place of two and to be determined by
the observed times of vibration about A, B.
is a
                          CAMBRIDGE, 9th Dec., 1873.
                  I
                                               /3,
                        I

                                             it

                                                            is
                                                                    a

                                                           it

                                                                                           /?,
The only objection have to an adjustment of the knife-edges

in the actual Kater's pendulum that would render impossible

re-determination of his measure of the distance between the

knife-edges; but suppose  may safely be assumed that the

error of his determination of the distance between the knife-edges

less than the error we should be liable to in assuming that that

     REMOVAL OF BEND FROM RATER'S PENDULUM                          265

distance is now the same as it was when he worked with it in

1818. I don't like trusting further than we can possibly help to

the effect of flexure, seeing that the pendulum is neither flexible
like the fine wire of a ball pendulum nor rigid like the convertible

pendulums constructed for the Russian Government, but something

between. Therefore I should say, Let the knife-edges be made as
truly perpendicular to the bar as may be.

                                       CAMBRIDGE, 9t/i Dec., 1873.

     From Capt. Heaviside's description there can be little doubt
that the pendulum has received a bend since Kater worked with

it. Possibly from lying for years together in a position in which

it was subject to an amount of flexure quite trifling if temporary,

the metal has acquired a permanent set. Since therefore, so far

from our having evidence that the instrument, quoad the distance
between the knife-edges, is now in the state in which Kater left

it, the presumption is the other way, there can be no possible

objection it seems to me to having the bar straightened. The

formal sanction of the Council of the Royal Society cannot be

Iobtained till Thursday week.
        should not propose to alter this pendulum by the introduction
of a third knife-edge, whether for balancing or for swinging, as h

(the distance of the centre of gravity from one of the knife-edges)

can be obtained with abundant accuracy without altering the
Ipendulum or incurring any expense worth mentioning.
                                                      should

say

      1. Trace a line (a scratch) on the side (i.e. face) of the bar,
perpendicular to its length, and a little to the light-end side of

the centre of gravity.

     2. Rest the pendulum on an edge placed exactly under the

traced line, the plane of the bar being vertical, and the bob

(which tends to preponderate) resting on a support adjustable by
a screw. Also put a prop under the heavy end, not quite touching

the pendulum. This is merely to guard against the risk of a

tumble when the rider (to be mentioned) is put on.
     3. Adjust the traced line to verticality (on the edge of the

bar to horizontality) by means of the screw.

     4. Put on a small riding weight, and shift it till the pendulum

just begins to move towards the prop.

266 SENSITIVENESS OF KATER's METHOD

     This will give the distance of the centre of gravity to the right
of the traced line.

     5. Get a small metal piece with a line traced on it perpen-

dicular to its base, to serve the purpose of a carpenter's square.

Attach it temporarily to the bar so that the line traced on it cuts
the line traced on the bar, and is in the middle of the pendulum.

      6. Measure the distance from either knife-edge to the line on
the square just as you would the distance between the two knife-

edges.

    From data given by Kater in the Phil. Trans, for 1818, I have

calculated that supposing the non-adjustment to synchronism to
amount to one vibration per diem, an error of one-tenth of an inch
in the determination of h (an enormous allowance) would entail
an error of only 0'000034 inch in the length of the seconds'

pendulum. In other cases it would vary as the product of the
non-adjustment for synchronism by the error in h ; so that if there

were even 10 vibrations per diem difference between the two knife-

edges, and if h were determined to the -g^th of an inch instead of

y^th only, the error in the length of the seconds' pendulum conse-
quent on the error in h would be only the T oioo^ n f an i ncn
The subsequent alteration of the tail pieces would probably render
the error even less than this.

    P.S. I was forgetting to mention that in speaking of the

matter to Prof. Miller he much objected to the projecting knife-
edges in the Kater construction, and thought there ought to be
quite a short knife-edge embedded in the bar, the agate-topped
support being like [bent round], which he contemplated passing
in through a lateral hole, which would also serve as a window for
measurement under the microscope of the distance between the

knife-edges.

              13, ASHLEY PLACE, Dec. Wth, 1873.

DEAR STOKES,

         I have received yours of yesterday's date, and have sent

it to Kew, where it will be carefully copied, with the aid of

Captain Heaviside, and placed with your previous letters.
    In your summary of the services, and consequent exposures to

which Rater's apparatus has been subjected, you have omitted to

notice the experiments which were made with it by myself at

                   PROPOSED NEW STANDARD PENDULUM           267

     Greenwich, of which an account is to be found in the Phil. Trans.

     Ifor 1831 ; which is in fact, believe, the only record of experi-

     ments to determine the Length of the Seconds' Pendulum at the

     Greenwich Observatory : and consequently in a locality now
     Iaccessible. I refer, of course, to a determination by direct experi-
     ment, with Rater's original apparatus.       can well remember,

     however, that on that occasion, after the experiments were con-

     cluded, the Bar was replaced in its original case, with great care

     to prevent any liability to strain. It may indeed have suffered

injury, by reason of its own weight, when resting, or appearing to

rest on the fittings designed to receive either after its returnit,

to the Royal Society's house, or during its removal to Kew but
                                                    it
on its arrival at Kew was removed from the wooden case, and   ;
                           ; it                                            ;
suspended, in a glazed compartment, where was suspended in a
                                             by it
vertical position, its weight being borne         two loops of strong

woollen material, passing round the upper knife-edge, from which

is it  hung freely, in the direction of its length there being no other
                                             ;

     supports.  I  think that your explanation of the cause of the injury

       a very probable one viz. permanent set occasioned by its
                                     a

resting so many years in case in which there may have been a
                                 aa
liability to strain.

       This forms another circumstance, however, which tends to

render the construction of new convertible Pendulum desirable

and a new one to be made, a reconsideration of its specialties
       if          is
                       is
may be quite proper, and indeed necessary. The locality for the

experiments, (Kew Physical Observatory) appears to be in all

respects most suitable and the comparison will be immediate
                           :

with two Russian Pendulums which are at Kew for the express
purpose of comparison with the British Apparatus, and have

already been subjected to the necessary experiments by Capt.
Heaviside who in all respects a most competent experimentalist.

Supposing authority to be now given for the construction of a

convertible pendulum embodying your suggestions,            would

scarcely be ready before February, when the frequency of the

River Fogs will have passed, and transits will become again
available. But an authorisation of the expenses will be indis-

pensable, as we have no funds available for the construction of

new apparatus. Captain Heaviside will have careful and well

practised assistants in the Observing Staff of the Establishment  ;

and every aid may be assured on the part of the Committee.

268 REMOVAL OF PERMANENT SET IN PENDULUM

     The instrumental means of measuring the length of the
seconds' pendulum, when the distance between the knife-edges
has been determined experimentally, viz. a Cathetometer, and a
facsimile of our National Scale verified by Sheepshanks, are in
readiness at Kew : where only authority to proceed is awaited
for. This should proceed from the Royal Society. The chief
expense is likely to be that of a new bar with its suitable knife-
edges arranged under your guidance. Adie will probably be
found the best person to employ for this purpose. But the
primary step is the authority of the Royal Society for the pro-
ceeding.

                                        Always sincerely yours,

                                                  EDWARD SABINE.

                                  Dec. Wth, 1873.

I had the pleasure of seeing Capt. Heaviside a day or two ago :

he encourages me to hope that the so-called permanent set in

Rater's convertible pendulum may be removable by a skilled
Iartist.
          understand that it is situated in a part of the bar, near

the heavy circular weight ; where there may have been a deficiency

Iof suitable support in the box in which the pendulum was kept

between 1830, when employed it at Greenwich and the date of

its removal to Kew, when there was no longer room for
                                  a                          the

                                     I

                                                        it,
instrument, in Burlington House. At Kew, as have already

mentioned to you, has been suspended in vertical position,
Ia
the upper knife-edge resting on woollen loop supports, and enclosed
                      a
                            a

                         it
in chamber having a glass front.

still think, however, that the apparatus which supplies the

test of the fundamental unit of the British system of Measures

(should unforeseen circumstances at any future time require a
reference to such test) ought to be in duplicate, the two being
preserved in different localities. Yours and Professor Miller's

suggestion of new convertible pendulum, essentially the same

in principle and use, but possibly even more simple in construction,

seems to me well worthy of adoption: thus furnishing in
                                                         :

                                                             if

                                                                      a
highly advantageous manner, the double apparatus required.

We may hope that the results derived would be identical      not

so, of course further investigation would be required.

            GRANT FOR NEW STANDARD PENDULUM                        269

    I would suggest that no time should be lost in the constructionit,

of such a new convertible pendulum, under the authority of theI

Royal Society, and under the superintendence of yourself and

Prof. Miller, if you should be willing to undertake such an
important service to Science and to the country : and that

advantage should be taken of the presence of so highly reliable

an experimentalist as Capt. Heaviside, for the experiments to be
made with as well as with Kater's original convertible pendulum.
This would however require some prolongation of Capt. Heaviside's

stay in England, which on a due representation from the Royal
Society would, have little doubt, be sanctioned.

                                        CAMBRIDGE, 23 Dec., 1873.

MY DEAR SIR EDWARD [SABINE]

            am two letters in your debt, but though did not
I                                                       aI
    IIanswer them did not neglect them.     had a slight attack of
                                        I
          IIbilious fever last week, not enough to keep me in bed, even forI
                       it, a
breakfast, but enough to keep me from doing more than a little

work.       am thankful to say am quite well now.
                              iIf
       was unable to be present at the meeting of the CouncilI

of the Royal Society on Thursday, but         sent in       written

application for grant of money to enable me to have a new

pendulum constructed             saw my way to the construction and

employment of and the grant was made, so that as far as funds

are concerned am in a condition to proceed.         IIhave also been

looking into the literature of the subject, and have written some

letters to Captain Heaviside. So that have not been quite idle,
                                        II
notwithstanding my indisposition.

     In reply to a proposal to Captain Heaviside to swing an

additional pendulum of different construction, he writesa

    "But when have finished what am now doing shall haveI
been away from India much longer than Colonel Walker intended,
I
            it I

                          is
and am sure he would not wish me to take up any new work of

the kind."

Of course                     not for me to urge Captain Heaviside to act

against his sense of duty to his superior officer.      dare say leave

might be obtained from Colonel Walker for him to stay little
                                                            a

270 DIFFICULTIES IN DESIGN OF PENDULUM

Ilonger for sufficient reason. But should be justified in asking

for such leave?

   IIf could say, "such and such is a construction decidedly

preferable to Kater's, and if carried out would lead to a more
accurate, or to a more trustworthy result," then I would be

prepared to urge on Colonel Walker the importance of allowing
such further leave of absence to Captain Heaviside as would be

Irequisite to complete the work in the best manner. But as the
matter stands     am not prepared to take the responsibility of

addressing Colonel Walker to prolong Captain Heaviside's leave

of absence. As it he engaged to swing the original Kater
            a
                          is,
                                  is
pendulum and two pendulums of the Russian pattern. These have

all acquired recognized status in science, but all beyond in the

way of convertible pendulums, or indeed pendulums of any kind

intended for absolute determination (with the exception of the ball
pendulum of Borda and Biot, and the differential ball pendulum

of Bessel)        may say untrodden ground.            can suggest one or
          I                           (7,

            iIs                             B,
                       I                           C,
two changes in the Kater which seem to me to be improvements;
                                              I iIf I
but then have had no practical experience in the matter, for the

very light pendulums swung at Kew were for the investigation

of a special point, and don't count. And             were actually to carry

out the plans which might seem to me improvements, know not
                                                                  I

what practical hitches might encounter.              have been not a little
                  4

                      I

                                p.
deterred by a paper of Baily's in the Philosophical Magazine for

February, 1829 (Vol. v. 97).           Baily tried among other thingsa
plain bar with knife-edges            A, D, the pendulum being
rendered convertible as to A,
                                        and also as to B, D. He found

for the length of the seconds' pendulum

                      by A, 39-1386 inches.
                          B, D 39-1307
                      is by
The difference '0079          C                                 th of an inch, and

                                                               T

                                                    ^
                           not far short of the

would correspond to an error of 8'72 seconds a day in time. This

cannot be accounted for by the neglect of the inertia of the air;

for the error thence resulting would be almost rigorously the same

for the pair A, as for the pair D. The observations were all
                  IC
                                                 B,
self-consistent.  can only conjecture that the discrepancy arose

from the state of the knife-edges, or of one of them. Of course an

observer like Baily would take good care that the knife-edges were

apparently in good order.

PROF. STOKES' CONTRIBUTIONS TO GEODESY  271

   IIn the face of discrepancies like this, which so careful an

observer as Baily could not account for, were to say to Colonel

Walker "I am of opinion that such and such changes in the Kater
pendulum would be an improvement: I recommend a pendulum

as so constructed for adoption, and would advise you to prolong

ICaptain Heaviside's leave of absence that he may use it," should

be disposed to apply to myself the saying "Fools rush on where

angels fear to tread."

   THE INDIAN PENDULUM AND GRAVITY
                             SURVEYS.

     [The early preoccupation of Sir George Stokes with the
reduction of the existing classical pendulum observations, in

connexion with his great memoir on the resistance offered by
viscosity of the air, and the illumination which his memoirs on
Clairaut's Theorem and the Figure of the Earth threw on the
connexion between the form of the sea level and the distribution
of gravity, naturally constituted him throughout his life the first
British authority on the principles of all geodetic operations. The
pendulum observations of the Great Indian Trigonometrical Survey,
the results of which have taken so prominent a position in the
Science of Geodesy, thus occupied a large share of his attention,
both officially at the Royal Society and in the way of private
discussion with the directors of the operations.

    A large correspondence exists, first with General Sabine, and

later with General J. T. Walker, Col. Herschel, Capt. Heaviside,

and other officers of the Indian Survey, the influence of which is
to be traced in the official Memoirs of that service and in various
papers in the Phil. Trans, and elsewhere. The selection of letters

here reproduced has been made mainly with a view to the scientific
value of their contents, whether as containing striking original
remarks, or as giving an accurate account in ordinary language of
the results that are to be found in more abstruse and technical

form in Sir George Stokes' published papers.

    It has been felt that any attempt at condensation in addition

to omission would be inadvisable. Where similar principles are

272 HISTORY OF INDIAN PENDULUM OPERATIONS

expounded in other connexions, as for example, the comparison of
the pendulums of the British and American surveys, or the best type
of instruments for the Australian survey now in progress, the
order and treatment of the topics has been sufficiently different to

justify complete reproduction.

The Indian Pendulum Observations were instituted in 1865, and

full details of the whole of the work, up to date, were given in 1879
in a thick quarto volume, ranking as Vol. v. of the " Account of the

Operations of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India." The

Preface and Contents, pp. i Ixii, by General J. T. Walker, R.E.,

Surveyor-General of India, narrate the inception, organisation,

and progress, of the enterprise.

IAt the end of his Preface, p. xlv, General Walker remarks:
"In conclusion  must acknowledge my great indebtedness to

Professor Stokes for the valuable and cordial assistance which he

has rendered, both to Captain Heaviside and to myself, on several

occasions, as is abundantly testified by the extracts from his letters

which the present volume contains."
     The most recent authentic account of the operations of the

Indian Pendulum Survey, and the results brought to light by its
recent revision, will be found in the extracts from Col. Burrard's

Phil. Trans. Memoir, reprinted infra, p. 297.

      Some preparation for an undertaking of this kind had been
made as early as 1826 30 by Col. Everest : but the Kater

pendulums which he obtained were never used, and the idea

seems to have dropped out of mind until it was revived in 1864

at the suggestion of Sir Edward Sabine, President of the Royal
Society. To confirm his own views Sir Edward obtained written

opinions from many of the most eminent British authorities on
Geodesy, which are reprinted in the Preface to the " Account of
the Operations...," pp. iv ix. The following letter from Prof,

Stokes appears on pp. viii ix.]

                                  CAMBRIDGE, June 22nd, 1864.

DEAR GENERAL SABINE,

             In reply to your letter of the 9th instant enclosing copy
of correspondence relating to proposed pendulum observations in

connexion with the Great Arc of Meridian, and stating that the
Council of the Royal Society would be glad of an expression of

HOW PENDULUMS SUPPLY AN INDEPENDENT CHECK 273

my opinion as to the importance of the experiments, and as to
the mode in which Colonel Walker proposes to carry them out,

I would make the following remarks.

      The experiments may be viewed either (1) as supplementary
to the survey of the arc ; or (2) as affording independent informa-
tion on the Earth's figure, and on the cause and amount of local
variations in the intensity of gravity.

    First. It is needless to refer to the great care and thought

which have been bestowed on the Grand Indian Survey, or the
cost of the operation from first to last. The result is a scientific

achievement worthy of the nation, and the Great Arc takes its

place in the foremost rank among those on which we depend for
our knowledge of the Figure of the Earth. But the results of
geodetic operations of this kind are, from their very nature, beset
by one source of uncertainty, that arising from local variations in
the direction of the force of gravity. The numerical calculations
executed by Archdeacon Pratt have shown that the amount of

disturbance due to the mountains and high table-land to the
north of India is much more serious than might perhaps have
been anticipated ; but, from a comparison with the results of the

Survey, it appears that some hidden source of compensation must-
exist, causing the effect of the mountains to be much less than
would be indicated by their mere external form. These considera-
tions, referring especially to the Indian Arc, combined with the

uncertainties as to local attraction which apply to any arc, render

it highly desirable to apply an independent check to the amount
and character of these disturbances, if we have the means of doing
so at a cost which is trifling compared with the whole expense of
the Survey. Now such a check is offered by pendulum observa-

tions, when the results obtained at various stations are combined.

The pendulum no doubt indicates only the vertical component of
the disturbing force, whereas it is the horizontal component in the

plane of the meridian that affects the measures of arcs. At any

one station, of course, a horizontal disturbance may exist without
a vertical disturbance, and vice versa ; but in a system of stations
disturbances of the one kind must necessarily be accompanied by
disturbances of the other kind. Indeed it is theoretically possible

from the vertical disturbances supposed known actually to calculate
the horizontal disturbances, and that without assuming anything
beyond the law of universal gravitation. Actually to carry this

s. B. ii.  18

274 ADVANTAGES DERIVED FROM PENDULUM OBSERVATIONS

out would probably require observations to be made at stations

more numerous than can be thought of; bat the fact of its

possibility shows how severe a check pendulum observations are
capable of exercising on the results of geodetic operations.

     Secondly. The figure of the Earth, as you are well aware,

admits of being determined by pendulum observations inde-
pendently of measures of arcs. For this purpose it is not necessary
that the stations should be connected in series, in which respect,

as in many others, pendulum observations have a great advantage
in respect of facility over measures of arcs. At the stations of an

arc of meridian we have the latitudes and elevations already

determined, which saves part of the labour, especially as regards

the elevation in the case of an inland station. The Earth is indeed

already well studded with stations at which gravity has been

accurately determined, in effecting which result your own labours
occupy a most prominent place. In India, however, few determina-

tions of gravity of first-rate character have as yet been made ; and

besides, the stations at which gravity has hitherto been measured

elsewhere are mostly situated on islands or coasts, and it would be

interesting to have a good series of inland stations for comparison.

Furthermore, your own observations appear to show that the

observed irregular variations of gravity, which are superposed on

the grand variation from the poles to the equator, are connected

with the character of the formations underlying the stations ; so

that pendulum observations may be expected to throw light on

the geology of a country.

The last point on which you requested my opinion referred to

the mode in which Colonel Walker proposes to carry out these

observations. As you have such great practical experience in this
Imatter, and have none, my opinion is of no value compared with
Iyour own.
            think Colonel Walker has done wisely in leaving a

good margin for stations to be chosen according as the results

Iobtained at the principal stations may appear to make desirable.
    If the nature of the country admits of it, think it would be

well to observe gravity at one station some way north of Kaliana,

the northern extremity of the Arc. My reason is this. Any

irregular excess or depth of matter north of that station would

affect the direction of gravity, and consequently the astronomical

latitude of the station, but might be situated too nearly in a

horizontal direction from the station to have any sensible influence

             A HIMALAYAN STATION DESIRABLE       275

on the intensity of gravity at the station itself. Such excess or

defect, however, if it existed, would make itself felt on the intensity

of gravity at stations further north, and consequently more nearly
over the region in which it occurred. The latitude and elevation
of any such station would have to be ascertained ; but an approxi-
mate determination, such as could be made with small portable
instruments, would be quite sufficient. On account of the peculiar

Iimportance of Kaliana as being one of the extreme stations of the

Arc, think the additional trouble which might be involved in
observing at a station not included in the Survey would be well

bestowed.

                                       Believe me, Yours very truly,

                                                             G. G. STOKES.

             To COL. J. T. WALKER, R.E.

                                                          CAMBRIDGE, 25 July, 1872.

I must sincerely apologise to you for having left your letter

Irelating to the experiments of the late Captain Basevi so long
unanswered.  saw it was a letter which would require a great

Ideal of consideration, and being pressed with business at the time
   placed it with other letters of importance, and to tell you the

Itruth the subject went out of my head till came across your

letter.

   IAs you do not specify the contrary presume the temperature

and pressure corrections investigated by Captain Basevi were the

whole corrections, not the residues after the hydrostatical correc-

tion for buoyancy and the temperature correction for expansion of

Ithe metal of which the pendulum was composed had been applied.
     *Many years ago investigated the problem of the resistance

* The remainder of the letter is published in the Survey Report, p. [75], after
"Inthe following remarks :
                            his letter of the 28th March [1871] Captain Basevi ex-

pressed a wish that the results of his experimental investigations of the dynamical

influence of the air on the motion of his pendulums should be submitted to

Professor Stokes, whose theoretical investigations on the same subject have already

heen alluded to in the present chapter. This was not done at the time, as there

was then every prospect of Captain Basevi's returning to England shortly, when he

would have an opportunity of consulting Professor Stokes in person. But after

these expectations had been frustrated by his death, Colonel Walker on whom the

                                            182

276 AIR-RESISTANCE TO VIBRATING BODIES

Iof a fluid to a pendulum, taking into account the internal friction

of the fluid itself. A very tough problem it was, but succeeded

in obtaining the solution in the case of a sphere, and in that of a

cylindrical rod of which each element was treated as an element

of an infinite cylinder vibrating with the same linear velocity and

without change of direction of the axis.

   I will send you by book post a copy of my paper if you have

not got but think you have.
     In the case of the sphere the correction to the time of vibration
is
             it,

              I

                    if

                                                                                                k
due to the pressure of the air came out in finite terms. The time

the same as          the force got by considering the hydrostatic

buoyancy acted on a mass equal to that of the sphere + times

the fluid displaced, where (eq. 148)

where a the radius, r the time of vibration, the density, and
//,                                                 p

              is
a constant, which may be called the coefficient of friction of the

fluid, and which may be supposed to depend on the density and
temperature, or rather pressure and temperature of the fluid.

     For a cylindrical rod, comes out a complicated transcendental
                         k/

                             A
                                             .
a\p- -function of a Vu'r or of                  If a be not too small, or a = pj
                                                          1 \(
too large, may be expressed     (eq. 113) by a series according to       }

-ascending powers of A/
is                              which               at first convergent, and
                         is
      2.
                               1,
                 k
of which the first term               ,

                                                is
                             so that the first term of n(= +k)
Supposing therefore a and r given, the effect of the air on

the time will vary as

is is(The terms involving odd integral powers of jjbjp vanish.)a
       isWhen a small or /j,/p large, the expression for the transcendental
function divergent from the first, and we must use descending
series which always convergent.a

business of providing for the completion of the work had devolved, as an almost
sacred duty wrote to Professor Stokes and placed all the facts before him, and was

favoured with most valuable and interesting reply, dated 25th July 1872, from

which the following extracts are taken."

        POSSIBLE APPROXIMATE EXPRESSIONS FOR RESISTANCE 2*77

     Since then in the case of a cylindrical rod we meet with a very
complicated transcendental function, we may infer with almost
certainty that for a pendulum like an invariable pendulum, of no
simple geometrical figure, the law expressing Basevi's c, as a
function of p and t, is no simple one discoverable by experiment.

A simple relation, approximately holding good, may however

connect itself with a single term, of leading importance, in the
expression for k or n. Such a term may be the second, involving

V//-//0 or multiplying by the p outside all involving V//,p. Indeed
this is the only term which would occur in the case of an infinite
vibrating plane, and an element of a thin flat pendulum may
roughly be treated as an element of such a plane.

     We conclude then from theory,
        (1), that the actual expression for c in an invariable pen-

dulum, as a function of p and t, is complicated in the highest

degree.

        (2), that it is likely that a term of the simple form

Constant x Vyu,/? may be of leading influence.
     First, suppose the temperature constant. For this case

Basevi found that the variable part of c seemed to vary nearly

as Vp, or which is the same thing, as Vp, since t is constant.

If then the leading part of c varies theoretically as V'pp and

experimentally as V/o, we must infer that p is constant, or that
the constant of friction is the same at all densities.

    This is precisely Maxwell's result (Phil. Trans. 1866, p. 249)..

obtained theoretically from his theory of gases, and experimentally
by his experiments on the slow oscillations of disks in their own

plane.

     The constant term in the expression for k multiplied by the
mass of displaced fluid would vanish for an infinitely thin plane
pendulum vibrating in its own plane. The pendulum employed

Iwas suppose thin, and therefore this term would be very small.

   IAs theory points out that the relation between c and p is

a very complicated one, doubt if there be any use in going

beyond the leading term in attempting from the observations
to express c in terms of p, unless it be for the purpose of obtaining
an empirical formula which may be useful in reductions.

      Secondly, consider the dependence of the leading term on t.
As Basevi's expression for c vanishes, whatever be t, when p = 0,

278 COMPARISON WITH BASEVl'S EXPERIMENTAL FORMULA

I conclude that c is the residue after application of the correction

for the expansion of the metal.
     The theoretical term which has been conjectured to be the

leading term varies as V//,/?. Now according to Maxwell (Phil.
Trans, for 1867, p. 83), p varies as T+t when p is constant.
This would therefore make the theoretical term vary as V'p(T'+).
But according to Basevi the leading term varies experimentally as

*Jp(T + t) or as *Jp(T +           To make the two agree                                                 would be
                   //,                                                                               a it function

                       it t).

                             is
necessary to suppose to vary as (jT-M)
                                              it is
     On the other hand                 to be remembered that2
                                                      *.
known to be excessively complicated merely conjectured to have

a  leading term of the form (7\///,p,         being merely known that

terms of this form, though they may not be the most important

terms, occur for sphere and cylinder, and that for an infinite
               a
                     is

                                         a
plane the sole term of this form.

               To COL. T. WALKER, RE.
                                   J.

                                              CAMBRIDGE, th April, 1874.

     MY DEAR SIR,

               have carefully considered your letter of the 9th of
   1. I
March and have made some calculations with reference to in
      /I                                                                                                   it

connexion with my paper on pendulums in the Camb. Phil. Trans.,

and have formed definite opinions with reference to the questions

you propounded to me.

       flf be the correcting factor for temperature, no doubt/
                                       where        the part due to linear
may be expressed as  l

                         +
                             d,
                                    d

                                         I
                                                is
expansion of the metal, and                  ihe part due to the thermal

variation of the dynamical effect of the air. But can \ve throw

on the observed difference between the cold series and the 2nd
   td
     * See footnote to next page.

     The first part of this letter, from to   published with slight omissions in
                                   9.                                                                " This excess, as

                                       f

                                                 t,
                                                       is

                                                                                                  :
the Survey Report, p. [81], after the following introduction

regards the determinations anterior to Captain Basevi's swings at .Dehra, has

already been noticed in Section        The swings at Dehra, as reduced by Captain

Basevi, give mean value, for both pendulums, of F= '4435, which corresponds to
       6
            a
/= -000,010,31, and exceeds the mean value by direct measurement by -000,000,58

or nearly per cent. Professor Stokes was asked whether he thought the difference

might be due, in any measure, to the dynamical effect of the air...."

              COMPLEXITY OF TEMPERATURE CORRECTION                                          279

hot series plotted in your figure ? (I leave the less regular hot
series No. 1 for the present out of consideration.) It seems to me

well-nigh certain that we cannot. For

     (1) The difference amounts to as much as 56 per cent, of the
whole dynamical effect of the air. Now the thermal variation

may be expected to be a fraction of the whole dynamical effect

comparable with the fraction which the variation of the temperature

t is of the whole (T + t) absolute temperature. Now the variation
of t is about 50 and T + t is about 500, so this fraction is only j^th.

     (2) Theory shows that the dynamical effect is composed in
part of a term independent of the velocity and varying as the

/density p, and therefore as                     . In truth this term would be

but small for a flat pendulum vibrating edgeways, and would
vanish for a mere lamina. Still as far as it goes it implies an

increase in the number of vibrations when the temperature rises,

the variables being taken as pressure and temperature, not density

and temperature.
     Theory shows that in the case of an unlimited fluid the only

term besides the above in the case of a vibrating sphere, and the
leading term besides the above in the case of a not very thin
cylindrical rod vibrating in a gas in which the viscosity is not
extreme (as it appears to become for very low pressures), varies as

v/jip. Now Maxwell has shown* that varies as -\- when
                                                 T                 //                       p
constant, thought)                 varies, when                       Tconstant. Hence ^pp
                   pp                                is +                                     it is
varies as ^(T+                                                                     t. 1
                                                         t
                                                              //,

                                                            is
                                   or as Vp, which independent of                        Omit for

the present very low pressures for which the gas becomes very

viscous (for  if           be constant when varies,                or p/p becomes
                                                    p
                      //,

large, and //, not //,, determines the character of the gas, viz. whether

is it   to be thought of as like treacle, or like sulphuric ether, as

    is        mean ordinary ethyl lie ether). Then theory would
called.  I

                                ;
lead us to expect that there would be little or no thermic change

of dynamic effect possibly even                  a  minute acceleration for the

higher temperature consequent upon our choice of pressure rather

than density for the 2nd variable.

(3) Everything leads us to think that the dynamic effect of

the air vanishes with the density and consequently with the

     * This conclusion, used here and elsewhere, has since been modified for air         ;
fjicc (T+t) n approximately, where n = '754. Cf. Rayleigh, Scientific Papers, vol. iv.

pp. 458, 482.

280 DISCREPANCY POSSIBLY DUE TO IMPERFECT SUPPORTS

pressure. Hence if we take the pressure as variable and suppose two

curves drawn to represent the true dynamic effects at two constant

temperatures respectively, the abscissa being the pressure and the

ordinate the number of vibrations per diem, less a constant, the

two curves ought to pass through the same point in the axis of
ordinates, coming suppose something like this [omitted]. Now

assuredly your curves for 52 and 100 cannot be supposed to

meet in the axis of y. For the greater part of their course

Ithey are almost exactly parallel.  replotted your curves
     (4) To show this more clearly

measuring above and below the mean curve represented by a

Istraight line. In this way the parallelism is still more striking,

and there can think be no reasonable doubt that the difference

between the two curves, at least as to its main part, is due to some-

Ithing independent of the pressure and therefore not referable to the
dynamic effect of the air.  assume that the firmness of the

supports of the pendulum was not affected by the high tempera-

Iture. That being the case see nothing left but to assume as

Basevi did that the expansion of the metal had been somewhat

under-estimated. The difference may be above the mere casual

errors of microscopic reading in the measures of expansion taken

at Dehra. But query, might not a small portion of heat from the

pendulum bath have been communicated by radiation to the piece

Iof matter (a stone slab, suppose) on which the microscopes were

mounted ? This would give the expansion a little too small.

      (The effect of humidity which comes first into consideration is
that it diminishes the correction for buoyancy, moist air being

lighter than dry. I don't know whether humidity was allowed

for in correcting for buoyancy, or the air was taken at a mean

state. I am almost disposed to think the latter, as nothing is

said about this correction, and Basevi did not observe the

humidity. If this correction were not made, its introduction

would go a certain way towards clearing up the remaining

anomalies, though not, I believe, far enough. The curve for the

1st series (hot) might thus be brought down towards the 2nd by
O'l or possibly O2 of a vibration right as far as it goes but going

only a little way. Similarly at Mussorie, in comparison of the hot

moist and cold dry swings, the hot swings being, relatively to the

other set, over-corrected for buoyancy, the two results would be

brought a little too near together. The diminution of viscosity

         MODE OF CORRECTING FOR LAG OF TEMPERATURE               281

with moisture goes so far, observe, in the right direction, but it
seems hardly credible that it should go far enough. Maxwell

(Phil. Trans. 1866, p. 257), makes damp air over water at 70 F.
about g^th part less viscous than dry air at the same temperature.

It is satisfactory that the mean of the coefficients found for

pendulum No. 4 under somewhat opposite circumstances at
Mussorie and Kaliana agrees almost exactly with that obtained

by the numerous and careful measures taken at Dehra.
     The difficulty however is to make moisture go anything like

far enough to account for the discrepancies.

     You remark on a chief source of error in pendulum observations,

variations of temperature in the course of an experiment. It

seems to me that the chief way in which this will operate is

Iwhat will immediately explain, and if so that it may in great

measure be diminished by making a very easy determina-

tion.

As illustrating the tardiness with which masses of metal take

up the surrounding temperature, Prof. Miller mentioned to me
Ia curious experiment, performed
                                  think by a German. Two

tuning forks were carefully adjusted to unison, or to give only

Ivery long beats, forget which. It was found that if one were

touched with the fingers, heat enough was communicated to de-
range the beats, and it took 24 hours for the touched fork to

regain its normal state.

     Now when a pendulum is swung and the temperature of the
adjustment rises or falls, the thermometers will take up the

temperature more quickly than the pendulums. Theory shows

that if the changes be gradual the pendulum will lag behind

the thermometers, as to its temperature, by a constant interval

T of time. Thus if T be half an hour, the temperature of the

pendulum at 9 a.m. will be that shown by the thermometers

at 8.30 a.m. Moreover T may be determined by time observations

alone, by heating the pendulum up to say 100 or 150 (the tem-
perature not being required to be known), swinging and observing
                                                         it,
the coincidences as        cools. The results, reduced in  a  certain way,
will give T.
is I

                       it
       have written to Capt. Heaviside advising him to make this

simple observation on one of the invariable pendulums.        I  believe

he still at Kew, but there has hardly been time for an

answer.

282 ADVANTAGES OF GRAPHICAL METHOD OF REDUCTION

I Isend you a question set on this subject in the last Smith's,

Prize Examination*.

     2. [ Next as to the claims of the graphical method versus*
the formula for completing the reduction to a vacuum.

Theory shows that for a sphere vibrating in an unlimited

fluid the dynamic effect of the fluid on the time consists of only

two terms, one varying as the density, say Ap, and the other

varying as V/^p, say B V'pp. The coefficients A and B are known
Iffrom theory.
                   therefore d be the dynamic effect we shall have

   d = A'          -+ B'                                   = A'
                                     o (T + t)

where A', B' are constants and                  the value of at a standard
             ;
                                                            //,

                                                      is

                                                                                                         /a
temperature /z being a constant may be included in B', and

now omitting the accents we may put

At low pressure B*fp          a      the important term, so that we have

nearl                            is

and the curve drawn in your system would be parabola touching
                   If we were sure that such was the form, or thea
the axis of  a y.                                            a

general form, of the curve, there would be considerable (com-
paratively speaking) increase in the number of vibrations in

passing from pressure of say 0'6 inch to zero.

But this rapid increase of vibrations on diminishing the

pressure to zero      is      bound up with the constantly increasing

* Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. p. 358, question               substantially given-
                                                           a
above in the text. See p. 286 infra.                             :7

                                                                   ? it
                                                                        is

                                                                              is
t  This section of the letter appears in the Survey Report, pp. [86]-[88], after the

following remarks  Thus difference of nearly half vibration met with in the
   a
          :
              ''
reductions to vacuum by the formula and by the graphical method, and the

question arises, which of the two methods should be adopted For the purposes of

comparison with the results of previous operations with these and all similar

pendulums, in other parts of the globe, the graphical would evidently be the best, as

all former swings have been reduced on the assumption that the correction for the

combined statical and dynamical effect of the air proportional to the pressure, or
                                        is
                                           aa

                                                       is
in other words that the pressure curve          straight line. But on other hand the

formula might give the true correction, or more exact correction than that given

by the graphical projection.  Col. Walker referred this matter also to Prof. Stokes,.
who replied as follows "
                   :

CHANGE OF TYPE OF AIR-RESISTANCE AT SMALL DENSITIES 283

volume of air over which the disturbance extends, and which to a

certain degree accompanies the sphere in its movement. It is the

greatness of this volume which causes the passage from a perfect
vacuum to even a low pressure to be so telling*. Now when the
pendulum vibrates in a confined space, the increasing volume of
air which, as the pressure diminishes, tends to accompany it, at
last becomes greater than the walls of the chamber or vacuum
apparatus admit of. The motion of the air then becomes altered,

and passes in the limit to something quite different. In the limit
the motion of the fluid is the same as if it had no inertia ; the

resistance to the pendulum varies as the pendulum's velocity,
and its effect is thrown from off the time on to the arc. The

actual resistance is very much increased by the confinement, but

at the same time its phase is altered so as agree with the phase

of the pendulum's velocity. It follows alike from the discussion of

the formulae (59), (60) in my paper on pendulums, which relate
to the case of a sphere vibrating within a concentric spherical

envelope, and from general considerations, which last are applicable
to a pendulum of any form vibrating in a confined space also of

any formf, that the most important part of the effect of the time

will  be   of the  form  Cp  or  C'  rp     t  ,  the  Cf  however  being    quite  a
                                     JL ~r

different constant from A.

      Hence the curve instead of touching the axis of y will cut it at

a finite angle. There is therefore no such very rapid augmentation
in the number of vibrations in passing from a low pressure down

to actual zero, as Basevi's formula would give.

      For a cylindrical rod vibrating in an unlimited fluid, and for a

large and therefore a small m and small m, the                      given by
      JJL                                         is

                                                             is I k
                                                                               is
                                                                                               is
the first of my formulae (115). In this case the leading term

not even of the form     A   '  but of a different form, agreeing however

                          V
                             p

with the form in giving dyjdx = oo when x = Q,y being the number

of vibrations per diem and x the pressure. But as have already

remarked, the presence of an envelope will alter the form of the

function for very low pressures, giving a curve which will cut the

axis of at the very low pressures. And there some reason to
f
think that even before the pressure low enough to cause such
        y
    * See correspondence with Lord Rayleigh, p. 104 supra.        and Phys.  Papers,
        Cf. the reduction of Sir W. Crookes' observations, Math,

vol. v. p. 100.

284 INFLUENCE OF EDDIES ON RESISTANCE

an increase of p (or ya/p) as to bring into play the effect of the

envelope, the motion to which the theoretical calculation applies

would be unstable, and the fluid would really break into eddies

and the parts first set in motion  be left in the rear forming a
" wake " to the moving pendulum.    The effect of this again would

be to throw the effect of the resistance from off the time on to the arc.

    It appears therefore from theoretical considerations that the

curve will cut the axis of y at a finite angle, though till the

pressure gets very low the approximately parabolic form will

probably come near the actual result. Hence if a be the point

for zero pressure, the curve near a, instead of being a tangent to

Ithe axis of y, as abc, will be of the form ade, Fig. 1 ; indeed think

an additional bend as in Fig. 2 highly probable. Now if the

FIG. 1.         FIG. 2.                FIG. 3.

curve be of either of these forms, more especially that of Fig. 2,

and if we draw an approximately parabolic curve nearly through the

results of observations (represented by crosses, Fig. 3), and then on

the assumption that it is approximately parabolic prolong it back-
wards (see dotted curve) till it meets the axis of y at a tangent, it is

evident that we shall greatly exaggerate the ordinate of the real

meeting point.

Seeing then that theory indicates that the curve ought to meet

the axis of y at a finite angle, and that the curve obtained by
Iplotting the experiments tends decidedly to do so,
                                                     have no
Ihesitation in saying that think the graphical result ought to be

preferred to that obtained by extrapolating by means of a formula

according to which dyjdx oo when x = 0.

   I have given up the idea of swinging the pendulum with five
knife edges. First I found that Capt. Heaviside's time would be

         DECISION IN FAVOUR OF GRAPHICAL METHODS                285

fully occupied with the work he had already in hand, and he would

not feel justified in taking up this as part of the Indian work ; and

Inext was deterred by a paper of Baily's in Phil. Mag. (vol. v.

1829, p. 97), who had obtained discordances between the results
with one pair and another pair of knife edges in a pendulum

furnished with four knife edges convertible impairs, which he
Ifcould not account for*.
                              this happened to so careful and

experienced an experimentalist as Baily, it is clear that the

subject is not yet in that state which would justify me in asking

an officer of Survey (subject of course to your approval) to carry

out the determination.

   I am much obliged by your table of the values of I and k, which
Iis very interesting to me, though am not at present, at least,

able to engage in the experiments.
IApril 10.
            had a note this morning from Capt. Heaviside

answering some enquiries about dimensions of vacuum apparatus.

He did not say anything about my suggestion to warm a pendulum

and observe the coincidences as it cools, but he said he would write
Iagain.
         must post this before noon to catch this week's mail.

The formula you propose,

                          C = k >Jp #2,

would give dC/dp = oo for p = 0, and like the others would run up

the vibrations greatly in passing from the lowest pressure observed

to p = 0.

    If it be wished to preserve the parabolic form of the curves

and get rid of the infinite value of dyjdx for x = 0, it may be done

by changing the formula into

                          p = (7 2 + 0Ct

a, /3 being unknown constants. In comparing either this formula
or Basevi's with observations there are really three (or in Basevi's

formula with the correction for expansion four) constants to be

determined, and not two only, for C is the difference between an

observed result and the unknown result which would belong to

p = 0. If C' be the difference between the correction for pressure

p and any constant chosen for convenience, the formula takes this

form, p = a'C' 2 + /3V +  But think the graphical method
                          7'.

                            I
                                I

                                                                                            is
to be preferred to mere empirical formulae like these.

                              am, dear Sir, Yours sincerely

                          * Cf. supra, p. 263.

286 LAW OF COOLING

                                                            CAMBRIDGE, ^Tith April, 1874.

    IIt may be well that should give you fuller information about
the plan I proposed for ascertaining and allowing for the tempera-

ture-lagging of a pendulum*.
     Let u be the temperature of a detached piece of metal, such as

a pendulum, u the temperature of the air and surrounding space ;
and suppose the difference u UQ small enough to allow us to
regard the rate of cooling (or warming) of the pendulum as pro-
portioned to the difference u u of the temperatures. Then

                                       du q (u u ) dt,

t being the time, and q a certain constant, the reciprocal of a
time ; or

the integral of which equation is                                       1 1u1 ralit.  {f*L\\)

                                                                     r

      Suppose the surrounding temperature u to undergo periodic
changes, say a diurnal fluctuation : then u may be expressed by

               u = A 4- A l sin (nt + a) + A 2 sin (2nt + ft),

where n = 2?r + a day ; or say

                             u = A + 2x1 sin (nt + a),

n being changed to 2n, 3n... in succession. This introduced into

(1) gives                                *q(wq sin nt                   n cos nt)
                                                            ^,2 i
                       u  =  A u + ^ZA.                                 ^,2 '         (\/c2.),/

the term Ce~ qt containing the arbitrary constant being omitted

Ibecause it expresses what depends on the body's initial state, the

effect of which suppose to have had time to subside.

    If the time the body would take, when placed in a space at a

different temperature, to lose say half the difference of tempe-
ratures between itself and the surrounding space be but small

compared with the period of fluctuation of u0) or say a day,

     * Supra, p. 282.  Cf. also the discussion of the lagging of a marine barometer,
supra, p. 217.

                 TESTED BY A SWINGING PENDULUM      287

n will be very small compared with q, and neglecting ?i 2 in (2)

we have
--u A + 2J. (sin nt
                     cos nt\ = A + %A sin n It      j nearly,

or the temperature of the body at any time t is that of the

surrounding space at a time earlier by 1/q.
     The formula (2) is true independently of the smallness of n,

but as in the application of it n will be very small compared with q

we may deduce the result directly from (1). Putting u =f(t) and

integrating by parts we have

           = qe                      1)

                                     ?*/">-}

- f -or, aaf"(t),f"'(i)... will be so small that we may neglect them,

u =f(t) q~l (t) =f(t q~l) as before.

     Suppose the body in question to be an invariable pendulum.

Let it be warmed up to say 100 or 150 F. and swung in an
Ifapartment at the constant temperature u .
                                             U be its initial

temperature, its temperature at the time t will be

and as it cools its rate of vibration will go on increasing by a
quantity proportional to e~~5*, so that the rate (7) will be expressed
in terms of the time by

IA and B being two constants. These treat as unknown, though

A, expressing the rate for temperature u0) will be known from
previous work if the clock's rate be known. B might be expressed
in terms of U, u , and the coefficient of expansion of the pendulum,

Ibut suppose U unknown, and I will treat A as unknown also,

which will not require a knowledge of the clock's rate.

Supposing the rate determined experimentally in terms of the

time, by observing the coincidences, then taking differences of rate

for equal intervals of time we have

                 - -A? = B(l -e-^e-tf,   Mqt,

           log AY = log B + log (1 e~^)

M being the modulus '43429..., and as the interval A is supposed

constant,

                 log AY = const. Mqt.

288 SIMPLE CORRECTION FOR CHANGING TEMPERATURE

Let the results be plotted on paper, t being taken as abscissa

and log AY as ordinate, and let a straight line be drawn by the

eye through the observations, neglecting a possibly irregular

portion at first, before everything has had time to settle down

to its normal condition of change. The tangent of the inclination

of the drawn line, divided by M, will give q the reciprocal of the

lagging time r.

     Suppose now that in a regular swing (i.e. one taken in the

course of regular work) f(t) is the temperature of the air &c.

around the pendulum, t being the time elapsed since the beginning

of the swing ; and let D be the duration of the swing. Then if

f(t) be reckoned as the temperature of the pendulum, the mean

temperature  will be reckoned  as   1     JIf^f(t)dt  instead  of
                                   --L^s
f - rfjj f-L>JO"/(t -r)dt= -JL,>jQ {/()
                                          (t). ..}dt

/"neglecting the terms ^r 2 ()     i n the expansion. Hence the

correction for lagging will be

          - -^ {temperature at end temperature at beginning),

and depends therefore on the initial and final temperatures, which
are sure to have been recorded, and not on the law of change in
the interim.

   I have tacitly supposed that the recorded temperature was

that of the air &c. around the pendulum. But Capt. Heaviside
informs me that the thermometers were placed with their bulbs
in contact with a "dummy" which was presumed to have as
nearly as possible the temperature of the actual pendulum. He
further tells me that it has been found at the Standards Office

that a thermometer not merely placed against a bar, but having
its bulb protected by a brass shield, marks very accurately the
temperature of the bar, and suggests the desirability of such
protection in any future experiments. That such should be the
result is what might be reasonably expected, as the bulb would
be thus placed within an envelope which, thanks to the good
conduction of the metal, would be sensibly at the temperature

of the bar. A thermometer merely attached to a bar, and not

                                         PRACTICAL TEST  (u, say)          289

Iprotected, would think mark a temperature                         dividing

u-in a constant ratio n to 1 n the interval u u- so that                  n.
                                                                   u

The correction to the mean temperature of a swing as found above

would thus have to be multiplied by the factor n, being thus

reduced to

I May 8th. Shortly before the despatch of last week's mail
   received from Capt. Heaviside the result of a 1st swing with

a heated pendulum. It was tantalising to have the numbers in

my hands and not to be able to tell you anything of the results,

as the discussion and calculations would take some time, and

II have now a daily lecture. I have now discussed the 1st swing.

  have not yet tried the A7 method, fearing it might be too rough,

Iand wishing to obtain as soon as possible a trustworthy deter-
mination of T. So  have employed another, which if more

laborious is more certain. I first calculate the number of vibra-

tions from the beginning, and then deduct the number which

would have been performed at the mean rate during the swing.

IThe difference, which of course vanishes at beginning and end

of the swing, and which will call m n, is the quantity I have

to go upon in the determination of r. m n amounted in this
swing to a little over 0'2 vibrations at a maximum. This quantity

is got from the reduced abstractions for 22 coincidences between

the first and last (for which two it of course vanishes). My
formula should fit this when R and q are properly determined,

and I find they agree within a mean error of 0040 vibrations.

The lagging time T, relatively to the apartment, comes out almost

exactly 1 hour. The pendulum was swung in the vacuum apparatus,
but at full pressure.

    [In the account, Survey Report, p. 278, of Capt. Heaviside's
operations at Kew with Kater's convertible pendulum, there is

a section as follows.]

Theoretical Considerations connected with the Position

                   of the Centre of Gravity.

     Both Kater and Sabine, in their determinations of the time
of vibration of this pendulum, made the vibrations about each

s. B. n.                                                           19

290 FORMULA FOR KATER'S PENDULUM

axis of suspension very nearly synchronous ; 'the former in air,
the latter at low pressures. Baily, however, in the Philosophical
Transactions for 1832, page 470, remarks with regard to Sabine's
observations :

    INow, perfect synchronism consider unattainable ; or, at all

events, not worth the trouble it would cost to pursue it ; since the
small difference which arises, in these cases, will always enable us
to apply the proper correction, from the known principles of the
pendulum; and which are a more sure guide on such occasions
than any partial determination of the correction from actual
experiment, where, in these minute enquiries, the errors of observa-
tion are sure to baffle us in our object.

      Captain Heaviside wrote to Professor Stokes for advice on the
subject, and received letters in reply, from which the following are
extracts :

     There is no use in making the vibrations about the two knife-
edges more than very roughly synchronous*. Let t, t' be the times
of vibration, h, h' the distances of the centre of gravity from the
knife-edges, I (= h + h') the measured length, x the time of vibra-
tion for a simple pendulum of length I ; then, k being the radius of
gyration about a parallel axis through the centre of gravity,

and multiplying by l =

heh--hh''t'*_                  h'

                        + h-h' (t

     Observe it is not the mean of the times t, t' that is to be taken
for x. Now, it will be easy to measure h' nearly enough for

insertion in the correction y j-f (t 2 t'2) : let Sh' be the error
in h' and therefore SJi in h (for h + h' = I may be deemed exact) ;
then the proportionate error in f7i fj-i, will be

                        h + h' 8h'

and t, t' must be sufficiently nearly equal to render e(t

insensible .......
I

                                it
                                       is

                                                                                                                    t')
feel satisfied that     not only far less laborious but decidedly

more accurate to make the final result depend on swings taken

* Of. supra, pp. 256, 262.

                              BEST MODE OF OBSERVING                                                                          291

with the slider in one position and with measurement of h, than on

swings with two positions of the slider with the view of deducing
from mere observation, without having recourse to the theory of

the pendulum, what would be the time of vibration had the

vibrations been strictly synchronous .......

    I see that in the Philosophical Transactions for 1832, page 471,

Baily has criticised Sabine's proceeding in swinging a convertible
Ipendulum longer on knife-edge A than on knife-edge B (A is that
when the bob is below).                                         don't agree with Baily in this....

--For the small error &z?, produced by changes &t, Stf in t,                                                                  we
                                                                                   t,
have    ,         =  ht&t-h'tfW                                 or dividing by x,
                                                                                     t,
      xbx
                                                                                                                       t',
I                                                                                  regarded as equal,
             h
                isNowabout twice as great as h', therefore an error in
                     a                                          A
                                y
                                     j-,                                           B,
                                                             ;                                 a

                                                                                        if

                                                                                                                        t'. t
produces twice as great an error in x as does a similar error in

Therefore for given expenditure of time you get better result

by giving more observing time to than to than you divide

equally between the two .......

      have consulted Professor Miller, who stands among the very

first men in the country for acquaintance with the best construc-

tion of instruments of precision, and he entirely confirms me in

the advice, viz. (1) don't care about the vibrations being strictly
                     :
                           t
synchronous (2) let the slider once fixed remain fixed.

    After these communications Captain Heaviside decided to
dispense with any very close approximation to synchronism, and
to swing the pendulum with the moveable weight and the slider
fixed in one position, and to determine the distance of the centre
of                of the pendulum
    gIrtavwitays  further pointed                               from each knife-edge.
                                                                out by Professor Stokes                              in  letter to
                                                                is
                                                                                                   a

                                                                                              if
Captain Heaviside, dated 19th of December, 187:3, that                                                                        the

centre of gravity of the pendulum                               not in the plane defined by
the knife-edges (supposed parallel) a further correction will be

required  :

    Suppose the knife-edges to be parallel to each other, and let

the plane of the paper passing through                          GA                 the centre of gravity,
                                                                          B

                                                                                     G,
                                                                                              G

                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                I
be perpendicular to the knife-edges, and cut them in A and B.

Let be the distances of and from                                                                                     the measured
      h,  A h'
            B
length            ;  a? the distance of from AB, which we may suppose

to be measured horizontally or perpendicularly to AB indifferently,
                                                                                                                         192

292 CORRECTION FOR LATERAL DISPLACEMENT OF AXES

the whole correction being very small : then we have, to a first
approximatio n ,

writing I for h + ti in the small term.

     Now when the heavy end (say the B end) is above, in which
       A position the side position of the centre of gravity is
               most telling in making the second knife-edge lie to one
             side of the vertical passing through the other, let D be
             the distance that A lies right or left of the vertical

             through B ; then

        =  h'              nearly,       and  fi  = + 1 -h' D2
    a:     -j-JL/                                 -4-

    1                                               h
         T
           f                                                                2i

          i                                                         ll
                      L
                  is                                                          t
        - 7~)2                                                                                  to
                                                                                             ,
    and L II -7-
                                                                                         I,
                           the small correction to be added to

    give what would be the distance between the knife-

B

        a

                             it
    edges, supposing were possible to shift one knife-edge

to be in plane passing through the other and the centre of

gravity, without disturbing the distribution of the mass of the

pendulum, and to place at exactly the same distance from as     G
it
     is

             ;

                  it
                                  it
                                     it
    in which case                      would give exactly the same time of

vibration as does.

To form an idea of the magnitude of the correction suppose

D = of an inch h'/h =                    for round numbers = 40 inches. Then
^

                 9

                                   ;

                             7
                                I^,
correction = T ~T = TAA TA = 0'000,0625 of an inch. We

see that in practical  cases the correction       is  so extremely small
that we may regard
                       it  as capable of being made with absolute
accuracy.

it    When making an examination of Rater's pendulum before
commencing the observations, Captain Heaviside found that the
bar of the pendulum had become bent near the heavy end.

A reference was made on the subject to Professor Stokes, who

came down to Kew and saw the pendulum, and at once concluded
that should be straightened before any swings were taken with
it*. The Council of the Royal Society having granted the requisite
permission, the pendulum was re-straightened by one of Mr Adie's
mechanics at the Kew Observatory.

                           * Cf. supra, p. 265.

INFLUENCE OF MOIST AIK  293

                   To COL. J. T. WALKER, R.E.

                                                                     CAMBRIDGE, 4th June, 1874.

   II have received your letter of May 7 to which now reply.

     *As to the effect of humidity on the correction for buoyancy,
the coefficient of expansion for temperature may be taken the

same for dry air as for moist. It is in the density of air under

standard pressure and temperature that a difference is made
according as the air is dry or moist. The density of vapour
of water is only 0*622 that of dry air at the same pressure and

temperature ; and therefore if b be the barometric height and

     * The first part of this letter is published in the Survey Eeport, p. 79, and is
introduced by the following statement: "Captain Basevi attributed the difference
between the first and second series of hot swings with pendulum No. 4, at Dehra,
to the great humidity which had prevailed during the first series, and which he
thought might have caused the number of vibrations in the former to be always
greater than in the latter : see the quotations from his letter on page [72]. Now the
possible influence of humidity has never hitherto been taken into consideration in
the reduction of the swings of a pendulum ; the temperature and pressure of the air
have always been observed and allowed for, but it has not been customary to
recognize and allow for the influence of humidity, nor to take any steps for
measuring the amount of moisture which might be present in the air during the
swings. At least no such steps were ever taken throughout the operations in India,
and it is believed that they have never been taken elsewhere.

     " The idea appears to have originated with Captain Basevi, and it received con-
siderable primd facie support from the circumstance that, if cognizance were taken
of humidity, the results of the swings which were observed at Kaliana and at
Mussoorie for the determination of the temperature coefficients, see Section 4, would
be brought into closer accord with each other. At Kaliana the cold swings were
taken in the damp month of January, when the average humidity, as measured at

the nearest Meteorological Observatory, was 0-73, complete saturation being -1;

and the hot swings were taken in the following but much drier month of May, when
the corresponding humidity was O22 ; thus the difference between the results from
the hot and cold swings, and consequently the values of the coefficients for tempera-
ture, would be diminished if the observations were reduced to a common standard
of humidity.

     " Conversely, at Mussoorie the hot swings were taken shortly after the termination
of the rainy season, when there must have been more it is not known how much
more moisture in the air than was the case a month later when the cold swings
were taken ; here the difference between the hot and the cold swings, and conse-
quently the magnitudes of the temperature coefficients, would be increased by
corrections for humidity. Thus the results at the two stations would certainly be
brought into closer accord by correcting for the variations in the humidity ; but it
 remained to be seen whether any possible approximation would be sufficient to
account for, or to materially reduce, the existing differences."

294 EFFECTIVE INERTIA OF DISPLACED AIR

v the vapour pressure expressed by the corresponding height
of mercury, the density of the air, and therefore the correction

-for buoyancy will be reduced by the vapour in the proportion of 6

to b '378 v.

     Prof. Miller, in his paper on the construction of the new

standard pound, has employed the most approved modern data
for the weight of moist air. He gives for the ratio of the density

of air to the maximum density of water (Phil. Trans, for 1856,

p. 785)

-6-0012930693
         -378V.'        -*\1 '8t29 ^ /(f1
! + 0-003656 ^"76^ I 1

where t is the temperature (centigrade) of the air ; b, v are
expressed in millimetres of mercury at C., z is the height above

the level of the sea, r the earth's radius, and X the latitude of the

place.

     He refers to a document signed by Biot, Regnault, and Bianchi,

according to which the pressure of vapour in an apartment not

artificially heated was found to be f of the maximum pressure
Idue to the temperature. This was in Paris ; should think in

India, in the rainy season at least, the proportion would probably

be higher.
     To take a rather extreme case as to the effect of vapour.

Suppose the temperature 95, or 35 C. The maximum pressure

at this temperature is 41*893 mm., and supposing the air saturated
the value of '378 v/b would be '0208. As -0208 x 30 = '624, satu-
rated air at 95 and 30 in. would weigh no more than perfectly

dry air at 95 and 29*376 barometric height. The moisture would
cause a diminution of say 2 per cent, in the correction for buoyancy.
As under average conditions the vapour pressure increases with

the temperature, the employment of a slightly too high coefficient
of expansion for temperature would pretty well neutralize the effect
of the weight of moisture in correcting for buoyancy.

     You ask for the formula for the hydromechanical effect of the
air. There are but two forms of pendulum for which that has

hitherto been determined.

     Regarding the air as a perfect fluid (i.e. neglecting viscosity)
we must in any case conceive a mass equal to that of k times the
fluid displaced, added to that of the pendulum, increasing its
inertia without increasing its weight. For a fluid (like air) of

           VISCOSITY AND TEMPERATURE CORRECTION                                                               295

small density it will suffice to multiply the correction for buoyancy

by 1 + k.

As far as the correction for a perfect fluid is concerned, moisture

will affect the whole (statical and dynamical) exactly in the pro-
portion in which it affects the statical alone.

     The value of k for a sphere is ^ and for a cylindrical rod is 1.
The only form for which k has been hitherto determined is that of

an ellipsoid which was given by Green in a paper published in the

Edin. Trans, (xm. 54) and reprinted in the 8vo vol. of his

Mathematical Papers (Macmillan and Co.). The Ellipsoid includes
as particular cases the sphere (a = b
                                                                    c),  the cylindrical rod

= = oo the bob of pendulum regarded as an oblate
(a                                           is
                                                  a
           b,

          (a c
               (a

                       0,
                           c ),
                                         ).
spheroid = b), a thin flat bar vibrating perpendicularly to its

plane =          = oo

For an oblate spheroid vibrating in the equatorial plane

(Green's Works,
           b                323)...

              is
                        p.
When       very small compared with a this becomes = ^7rb/a.
                                                                                                           k

But the actual result much affected by the viscosity of air.

The only forms for which the pendulum has been worked out

when viscosity taken into account are those given in my paperis
which you have got, the sphere and the cylindrical rod. For a

sphereI    find (equation 52)

For the cylindrical rod                                                   complicated transcendental
                                             II                   obliged to tabulate. When the
                                                          &
                                                          is
                                                                 a
function of a?/fjLT which was

cylinder was very narrow found approximately

                                             = l+-
                                             k

                                                             9

For not too slender pendulum, for one of the invariable pendulums
for instance, vibrating in time which for this purpose we may
deem constant, we should have approximately
a
                                        a

where F and are two constants which am not able to deter-

mine from theory. The dynamical correction would therefore be

approximately of this form
           B

                                     I

                                             Ap +

According to Maxwell                         or pfp               independent of and varies
                                             JJL

                                                            is

                                                                                                        p

296 HISTORY OF INDIAN PENDULUM OBSERVATIONS

as r + t*, so that the dynamical correction is approximately of the

form

When a pendulum is thin in a direction perpendicular to the

plane of vibration A' is but small, and the dynamical correction

ought to be nearly independent of the temperature, especially
within error of the approximate formula (judging from analogy
to the cylindrical rod) varies with the temperature in an approxi-

mate way to the first term     7" ~f~t  . This agrees very well with

Basevi's results.

   I have given the solution of my Smith's Prize question in

a letter which crossed yours.
   ICaptain Heaviside Iand have been getting out some definite

results about lagging, which have not time to mention by this
Imail. Besides they are still in progress.
                                            hope to write again

when they are further advanced.

     The following extracts from a memoir of Lt.-Col. Burrard,
RE., F.R.S., Phil. Trans. 1905, will give a view of the present
state of the Indian Pendulum Survey.

     Between 1865 and 1873 observations were taken at 31
stations in India by Captains Basevi and Heaviside with the
Royal Society's seconds pendulums. The results were published
in vol. v. of the ' Account of the Operations of the Great Trigono-

metrical Survey of India/ and have been subsequently discussed

fby many authorities

     The physical meaning of Basevi's pendulum results was for
many years the subject of controversy. The deficiency of gravity
which he had found to exist in Himalayan regions was attributed
by some authorities to the elevation of the level surface above the
surface of the mean spheroid, and by others to the defective density
of the underlying crust ; by the former the surface of the geoid
was held to depart largely in certain places from that of the
spheroid, and by the latter the two surfaces were assumed to be
almost identical. In his ' Schwerkraft im Hochgebirge,' published
in 1890, Professor Helmert gave a mathematical solution of the
problem, and his writings have closed the controversy....

      * See footnote, supra, p. 279.

    t See Phil. Trans. A, vol. 186, 1895; Helmert's Die Schwerkraft im Hoch-

gebirge ; Helmert's Hohere Geodasie; Clarke's Geodesy; Fisher's Physics of the
 Earth's Crust.

                   RECENT PENDULUM OBSERVATIONS                297

     The peninsula of India is composed of archaean and volcanic
rocks; the great age of the former and the great weight of the
latter would lead us to expect a high value for g ; that g should
be abnormally small from geological point of view, surprising
                   3
After 1874 no pendulum observations were taken in India,is,

but the deflection of the plumb-line continued to be determined3
                                    aa
in different parts of the country. By the year 1900 the astro-
nomical latitude of 159 stations, the astronomical azimuth at 209,
and the amplitude of 55 arcs of longitude had been observed, and
thus a large amount of evidence         relating to the direction of gravity
                                        of the data then available showed
had accumulated. A discussion
that
      it    would be desirable to associate determinations of the
          it
intensity of the force of gravity with observations of the plumb-
line, and in 1902 the Indian Government sanctioned the re-opening
of pendulum observations and the purchase of new apparatus of
Von Sterneck's pattern                         a
                                                   a
     The new apparatus was standardised at Kew and Greenwich
in the autumn of 1903, and was taken to India by Major Lenox
Conyngham in November of that year. Upon its arrival he
thought advisable to commence work at some of Basevi's stations.
The accuracy of Basevi's results, as given in Tables [omitted], had
been questioned by Professor Helmert    in                   to the Inter-
national Geodetic Conference of 1901.       his     report  there pointed
                                        It  had      been

out that the observer had had no means of measuring the flexure
of the pendulum stand, that during his standardisation at Kew
his pendulums had not been supported on the stand subsequently
used in India but between stone pillar and wall, and that when
he visited the high Himalayan station of More he had substituted

a light portable stand for that belonging to the Royal Society's

apparatus

     Major Lenox Conyngham's first station in India was Dehra
Dun his results there were astonishing, for they showed that
Basevi's value was no less than 0103 centim. too small. Lenox
      ;

               if
Oonyngham then visited Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, and Mussooree.a

At Calcutta observations were rendered impossible by the ceaseless

vibrations of the ground, which proved sufficient to cause the
pendulums, left suspended at rest, to oscillate visibly in few
minutes; this effect on the pendulums was produced in whatever
plane the latter were swung. Lenox Conyngham had therefore to
abandon Calcutta without obtaining any results; that he failed
where Basevi had succeeded was probably due to the half-seconds

pendulums of the new apparatus being more affected by earth-
vibrations than the old seconds pendulums

In figs. and [omitted] the deficiency underlying Dehra Dun2

(38) will be reduced by almost one-half  if    Lenox Conyngham's

value be substituted for Basevi's. Similarly the height of
Mussooree (41) in fig. will be almost doubled.

298 REDUCED DEFICIENCY BENEATH HIMALAYAS

     In the near future Basevi's other stations will possibly be
visited ; it seems certain that his results will everywhere be found
too small, that throughout fig. 2 the curve of deficiency will have
to be raised, and that in fig. 3 the line of sea-level will have to be

lowered.

     From Lenox Conyngham's observations at Bombay and Dehra
Dun, it appears that Basevi's and Heaviside's results are not in
error by any constant quantity, and that the error of each will

have to be separately determined. It is not easy to account for

the variation in the magnitudes of their errors ; their observations
were taken with a care that it is difficult for us to equal ; in

assuming that flexure could be prevented by the employment of a

rigid stand, the old observers were following the highest authorities
of their time ; the only faults that have been found with their
Iwork are such as would tend to produce constant error. That
their errors vary so largely can only,                         think, be explained
on the supposition that the flexure of the wooden stand of the

Royal Society's apparatus was influenced by temperature and

humidity.
     The idea that gravity is exceptionally weak throughout India

a" smcaorkmepdarendegatotivEeurvoapreiaticoann  "noof  longer  be upheld*; the   so-called
                                                        many   writers has been  found to

rest on erroneous data.

The theory of the compensation of the Himalayas has been

based to a large extent on the old pendulum results at Mussooree
and More. The sections in figs. 2 and 3 show that a hidden
deficiency of matter underlies the station of Mussooree (41) equi-
valent to about three-fifths of the visible excess; Lenox Conyngham's
recent result reduces this hidden deficiency to one-third only of the

visible excess.

     Figs. 2 and 3 might lead to the belief that the Himalayas at
More' (43) are almost entirely compensated. The height of the
visible excess is 4696 metres, the depth of the ideal deficiency
4484 metres. But Lenox Conyngham has not visited More, and,
as Basevi employed there a special and lighter stand, it is im-
possible to gauge the error introduced into his result by its flexure ;
we have lately gained some idea of the effects of the flexure of the
Royal Society's heavy stand, and we can only suppose that the
light More stand was less rigid. That the Himalayas at More
are compensated to a considerable extent is certain ; that the error
due to flexure could have affected Basevi's result to the extent of

     * No standard value of g has as yet been adopted by the International Geodetic
Association. When the absolute values of gravity at European standard stations
have been finally determined, it may be found that the values at Kew and Greenwich,
which we are now accepting as our standards, are not themselves normal. Both
Basevi's old and Lenox Conyngham's new values will then have to be corrected by
a constant quantity.

PERFORMANCE OF CLOCKS  299

22 seconds of time is out of the question. On the other hand, it

is more than proba"ble that the compensation, that does exist, lacks
that completeness, which has hitherto been considered among its
most remarkable features*.

            To COLONEL J. HERSCHEL, RE., F.R.S.f

                                                         LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE.

                                                                                21 Oct., 1885.

     MY DEAR SIR,

          I do not know whether you have heard that the India

Office sent your report on pendulums to the Royal Society, to
consult the Society on account of the bulk of the MS. and the
consequent expense of printing it. This was some time since;
but as the vacation intervened, the Royal Society Council's Report

Ihas not yet been sent in to the India Office. However have had

the opportunity of looking into the MS., and that being the case

I I Ithought that might as well mention three points which

noticed. Two of them are small matters, which I will first

mention to clear them off.

   I well recollect Sir Edward Sabine's mentioning to me in
Iconversation that some clock, and feel pretty sure it was the one

he used in his pendulum observations, might be trusted to have
the same rate for three or four hours that it had on the mean
of the 24. He spoke of it as a rather exceptional merit in this
clock. This shows that he was fully alive to that possible source

of error, though I do not know whether he has expressly mentioned

it in any of his published papers.

    The second point is this. You write as if the effect of the air

on the time of vibration depended on nothing else than the density
of the air. This is not true, though the difference in practical

cases would not be much. It would be true if air were a perfect
fluid, but it is not. In the case of a sphere suspended by a wire

which we may deem infinitely fine, and swinging as a pendulum
once in a second nearly, if the correction for buoyancy be called

             * Clarke's Geodesy, p. 350.

        f The following letters were kindly communicated by Col. Herschel.

300 A MODE OF OBSERVING COINCIDENCES

1, the additional correction for inertia, if air were a perfect fluid,

would be 0'5, and the total correction 1*5 would vary simply as the
density of the air. But in consequence of the viscosity of air the

total correction exceeds 1*5, by a quantity which depends on the
Ifradius of the sphere and on the time of vibration.
                                                      the diameter

be an inch and a half, and the time of vibration about one second,

the total correction is about 1*85. Now the viscosity of air increases

Iwith the temperature, according to a law which is not think

yet satisfactorily made out, so that for air of a given density the
correction would be a little higher for a higher than for a lower

temperature.

   IThese two small matters being disposed of, come to the

principal point, which is your method of observing coincidences*.

   IAt first sight was disposed to regard either the common

method or yours as practically perfect so far as accuracy is

concerned, and your method seemed to offer great, or at least
considerable, facilities in observation. For absolute determinations

it would require a small correction, which however could easily
be made. But further consideration led me to doubt its trust-

worthiness, even supposing this correction made.

      Suppose the clock pendulum and its mark or marks projected
on the plane of motion of the free pendulum, by lines drawn
through the centre of the object glass of the observing telescope

if no lens be used, or let its image be formed by a Carlini lens, as

may be preferred. Let a be the semi-amplitude of horizontal
excursion of the projection or image of the clock pendulum at the
height of the mark, b that of the fiducial edge of the free pendulum.

We have only to consider the relative positions of the mark and

fiducial edge; and the difference of abscissae may be represented by

                              a sin nt b sin (nt + cot + a) + c,

where &> is a small quantity depending on the difference of rates
of the two pendulums, a a constant, c a constant depending on the
distance of the mark from the fiducial edge when both pendulums
are at rest. In actual observation, the quantity w may be 300 times
or so as small as n. We may deem a> constant; for the small
variation, depending on the slow variation of the minute correction

    * This is printed for its interest in connexion with the theory of observations ;

but it turned out (infra) that Col. Herschel's work was not sensibly vitiated by any
defect of this kind.

       OF SUPERPOSED VIBRATORS            301

for the finite arc of vibration, is quite too small to need taking into
account for our present purpose.

     The above expression may conveniently be put under the form

                                        p sin (nt <) + c

where  p = v a2 + 62 2ab cos cot + a

       ==<p = arc
       tan  a  b sin wt +    a.  a    a.
                  b cos cot
                             +

In this form the relative abscissa is represented (making abstraction
for the moment of the constant part) as a quantity varying according
to the same law as a simple pendulum, and having the period of
the clock pendulum, but subject to a secular variation of amplitude
and phase. The march of the variable part is rudely represented

in the figure below, where the abscissa is proportional to the
time.

                                                JUVJ

    In the actual experiment, there would be probably about 300

of the subordinate periods, answering to two seconds, in one period
of the joint fluctuation, answering to the interval between coin-

cidences.

     We are only concerned with the values of the relative abscissae
at the turning points; and if in the above figure we imagine them
dotted, and the rest of the figure removed, we shall get two
series of dots lying in two wavy curves which we may practically
treat as continuous. The narrowest parts of the enclosed strip
will answer to coincidences, the broadest to oppositions. As we
are only concerned w7ith the relative position, we may regard
either pendulum, say the clock pendulum, as at rest, by superposing
on both a motion equal and opposite to that of the clock pendulum.
In the figure below, the curves represent the continuous curves
in which the dots above mentioned lie, and the ordinate of the

302 DISADVANTAGE OF OBSERVING A MINIMUM

horizontal line above the axis represents the place of the fiducial
edge of the mark observed.

     The intersections P, Q represent the critical events of dis-
appearance and reappearance, and PM, QN being the ordinates,

the mean of the abscissa of M and N is taken as the moment

of coincidence.
     The method therefore labours under the very serious dis-

advantage of determining a time by observing the moment when
a certain quantity is a minimum, or in the case of an opposition
a maximum. The slowness of the change increases the difficulty
of hitting the exact moment, or rather second, for we don't split
seconds, or rather bi-seconds, when the disappearance or reap-

pearance happens. Still, if this were all, the optical observation
is so sharp that it might be possible to make the observation with

the accuracy required, and perhaps your experience justifies you
in asserting that it is. But that is not all, the very fact that the
time to be observed is defined by being the moment of a minimum
introduces the risk of very serious disturbance from small disturbing

causes.

   If we may assume a and b constant, we have for the minimum

of p the condition

                            cot -f- a = or multiple of 2?r,

and the observation of the coincidences gives the true measure
of &>. But supposing a to remain constant, the time of minimum
will be affected by the variation of b ; taking account of this
variation we have for the condition of maximum or minimum of p

                      (b a cos H) db + wab sin H . dt 0,

where O is written for cot + a. Now the arc of the free pendulum
decreases sensibly in geometric progression, whence

                                                b = const. e~ qt

and therefore  db/b  qdt ;

                 OWING TO UNKNOWN GRADUAL CHANGES                                                                   303

and on substituting in the above equation we have for the condition
of maximum or minimum

                -(b a cos H) q coa sin O =

IIor a (q cos -f ft) sin H) = bq

                             sin(fan + ttaann- 1-'iU                                                         6

             q

                is b
                                                           2.J

                                                      it is
Hence, unlike the former case the value of H depends on the

ratio of to a; and as that ratio                                widely different near the
beginning and near the end of an observation, the correction to fl

will not be the same at the end as was at the beginning, and

the total interval of time between the first and the last coincidence

will not therefore be given correctly by taking the difference

between the times of the observed coincidences.

As practically very much smaller than &), we may without

sensible error substitute for the above

where N the number of intervals of coincidence which have
                 is
                                       is
elapsed since the first coincidence was observed.

As the last term                           constant, and therefore disappears in

taking       the difference, we may take                                                                  - or in clock seconds,
                                                                                                     ft)
  -                                                                                                       a
             where/          the interval between                                                         coincidences, to be the
to a T2T?~r
                         is

correction to be applied additatively to the observed time of any

coincidence. As the correction goes on decreasing with                                                          6,  the

total interval from first to last coincidence will be deemed too small.

On taking the numbers for and co from an observation of
                                           q

Sabine's with an invariable pendulum, given in the Philosophical

Transactions for 1828, the error in the total interval which would

have been produced by observing the coincidences in your manner

came out about 15 seconds, and the corresponding error in theis

estimated number of vibrations per diem about 0'38. This no
doubt small, but still too large to neglect. In purely differential

measurements taken by the same method, and with arc of as

nearly as possible the same magnitude, the correction might no

doubt pretty well be disregarded; but supposing you swung a
pendulum at say Kew, and another observer, trusting to the safe

304 POSSIBLE INEQUALITY DUE TO CLOCKWORK

keeping of the pendulum in the interim, swung the same at say
New York, observing the coincidences by the ordinary method, an

error would be introduced if it were assumed that the two results-

were comparable.

    If this were all, the correction could easily be applied; and

till the other day I thought that a might be assumed to be

practically constant. But about four days ago a cause of possible
error occurred to me that seems to me very serious.

     The arc of the clock pendulum is determined on the one hand
by the resistance and viscosity of the air, on the other by the
periodic impulse given by the driving weight acting through the
escapement. The weight has to overcome the friction &c. in
the clock train. Now from a slight roughness, or slight dirtiness,
or slight eccentricity, of an axle relatively to the wheel to which
it belongs, it is quite possible that the amount of friction &c. may

be different in different parts of the wheel as we go round. If this

were the case in the early wheels, where the leverage of the friction
would be comparatively speaking considerable, there might result
a periodic variation of the portion of the driving force available
for keeping up the arc of the pendulum, the period not being long.

IBut as regards the possible vitiation of the place of minimum
   mean place with reference to the figure, in reality time we are

only concerned with the rate of variation of a. But if the period

be not long the total variation of a may be too small to be observed
directly against a scale, and yet its rate of variation may be suf-
ficient to vitiate to a not insensible degree the rate of variation which
comes in, in the observation of the coincidences by your method.

Hence, even if the method might practically have been trusted had
the clock pendulum been free, it is open to very grave doubts

considering that the pendulum is connected with a train of

wheels.

   IThe common method is free from the objections which have
Iendeavoured to point out as belonging to yours, and is therefore,

  think, more trustworthy. As regards the differential work which

I Iyou have done, do not suppose the objections have mentioned

operated to any serious degree, or the thing would have been

found out in the course of the observations. Still I do not think

that your method is one to be recommended for future use.

                                             1 am, dear Sir, yours very truly

        CORRECTION MAY BE UNCERTAIN IF NO DIAPHRAGM 305

                                    CAMBRIDGE, 27 Oct., 1885.

I Igot your letter this afternoon.  have read it carefully twice
Iover.
        quite understand your method, and had understood it
Ibefore.  can picture it to my mind's eye, having been engaged

once, for a fortnight, at Kew taking coincidences. The thing to

be watched is much the same in your method and in the common.

I am perfectly well aware that you do not observe a minimum

I Ias such, but observe a disappearance and a reappearance, as indeed
mentioned in my letter.  can quite understand that to a

person using your method it might appear elegant and charming,

I should be disposed to say seductive. Til] you come to consider

what it really means, it appears superior to the common method.

It requires a correction, which however is very easily made, and

Isupposing this made am not prepared to say that it may not be

a good method, though I think it hazardous, and to use it with

assurance would require a good deal more experience.

   I had noticed that the discs which gave decidedly larger

intervals between disappearance and reappearance gave a mean

slightly different from those which had a small interval. This
I see you refer in your MS. to the decrease of the arc; and it
Iwould produce such an effect. This however
                                             disregarded,

thinking that where the interval between disappearance and

reappearance was long enough to make the discrepancy worth

Inoticing, the observation with that disc would be rejected.

assumed in fact the observation to be perfect in this respect;
and it is such apparently perfect observations, where different
discs would tell the same tale, that still require a correction,

and that a considerably larger correction, in consequence of the

decrement of arc operating in a different way.

   IP.S. am rather disposed to think that your method would

have been very good if you had chosen for observation discs

which would have given an interval of 2 or 3 minutes between

disappearance and reappearance, instead of only a few seconds.
A correction, if required, might still have been made for the

Idecrement of the arc, but in that case it would have been very
small.    should say that being revolutionary you have not been

revolutionary enough.

s. B. ii.                                    20

306 THE CORRECTION MAY BE KEPT SMALL

                                CAMBRIDGE, 29 Oct., 1885.

I worked out last night the correction to the observed time

of coincidence arising from the diminution of the arc, supposing

that the disappearance and reappearance were observed anywhere,

and not merely very near a coincidence. In the particular case

in which it was very near, the correction of course reduced itself

Ito the former one. On putting it roughly into numbers, got

in a practical case a correction hardly amounting to 3 seconds,
Iinstead of 15 or so.
                       could not see any error, and on looking

I Iagain at my former work, where the expression was reduced to

number, see that omitted a division of 2?r. This reconciles

Ithe two, and makes the correction much more minute than

supposed. It should still be included in an absolute determination;

but even here the error arising from omitting it would be only

about 0*06 vibration per diem.

                                CAMBRIDGE, 31 Oct., 1885.

In the common method of taking coincidences, the diaphragm

Iused just takes in the tail piece of the free pendulum when that
is at rest.  write of course with reference to the projections

on a common plane; usually the free pendulum, the clock pendulum,

and the diaphragm are so near to each other compared with the

distance from whence they are viewed, that they are nearly enough

in focus together; but a lens may be used if the observer pleases,
or two if he is very particular, one to form an image of the clock

pendulum to coincide with the free pendulum, and another to

form an image of both coinciding with the diaphragm. Usually

however the diaphragm is placed very near the free pendulum,

and the latter lens at any rate is not required; and even the first

mentioned lens is commonly dispensed with. These variations

do not in any way affect the principle of the method, and for

Isimplicity will suppose the three are projected in viewing on
Ito a common plane. The diaphragm as have said just admits

a view of the tail piece, and the tail piece just a little more
than covers the mark. In the common method it is an essential

condition that the amplitude of swing of the clock pendulum

ESSENTIALS OF USUAL METHOD OF COINCIDENCES  307

should exceed that of the free pendulum. This is not so in your
method. In the common method the diaphragm is absolutely
essential; in yours no diaphragm is wanted at all.

     Let the figure [omitted] represent the left cheek of the screen
and the left edge of the tail piece as it is advancing to the left,
and on the point of squeezing (visually) to nothing the aperture
between. Let the moment when the aperture is just squeezed to
nothing be called the critical moment. Suppose a coincidence
happened exactly at the critical moment. At that moment the
mark would be invisible and a fortiori invisible as the two
pendulums had been moving towards the cheek, since the clock

pendulum swings through a larger arc, and therefore had been
towards the tail piece like an express train towards an ordinary

train moving in the same direction. But if the clock rate of

vibration be a trifle greater than the free pendulum rate, after
2, 4, 6... seconds the mark will have advanced a little to the left
at the critical moment, and will therefore at one of these even

swings begin to appear.

     Similarly as regards the journeys from left to right. In the
first position of the mark it will be invisible at the critical
moment, and a fortiori after it as the aperture is opened. But
2 seconds before coincidence the clock had been a trifle behind

relatively to the free pendulum, and more after 4 &c., so that
by going back some even number of seconds relatively to that
first mentioned in speaking of this case, and consequently some
odd number of seconds from the critical moment mentioned with

reference to the first case, the mark would just be seen on first
opening the aperture, before it had disappeared behind the tail

piece.

     Hence the order of things from some time before to some time
after the coincidence would be: Visibility in moving from left

to right and invisibility in moving from right to left; cessation
of visibility in moving from left to right, and continued invisibility
in moving from right to left. Disappearance; invisibility both
ways; invisibility in moving from left to right, and commencing
visibility in moving from right to left. Reappearance; the two

events necessarily take place at seconds of opposite parity.
     Had the clock been losing on the free pendulum, the only

difference is that the parity of the seconds at which disappearance

and reappearance take place would have been reversed.

                                                              202

308 ESSENTIALS FOE OBSERVATIONS WITHOUT A DIAPHRAGM

The critical condition which separates the yes from the iw

in this method is: does the edge of the mark lie right or left
of the common edge of cheek and tail piece at the critical moment?

As the pendulums are moving most rapidly at the moment of

observation, the difference of phase of the free and clock pendulums

which accrues in 2 seconds tells as much as possible in deciding

whether the answer shall be yes or no.    In the course of 2

    Your method is altogether different.

seconds, or one period, making abstraction for the moment of the

slight change of relative phase in 2 seconds, the edge of the mark
swings to and fro relatively to the edge of the tail piece, the

amplitude of excursion slowly changes with the change of relative

phase of the two pendulums. According to the position of the
mark it may be visible all through, or invisible all through the

period of 2 seconds, or may be partly visible and partly invisible.

When it changes from partly visible to wholly invisible, you

have a disappearance, when from wholly invisible to partly visible

you have a reappearance. According to the position of the mark,

the interval from disappearance, to reappearance may be anything

from nothing to the interval between coincidences. The mean of

the two is taken as the moment of coincidence or opposition as

the case may be.

This method is disadvantageous when the interval between

disappearance and reappearance is very small, as the width of

the portion exposed then changes very slowly from bi-second to

bi -second. There is no need however to choose it small; and

from the numbers you sent me in your last it appears that in

some of your experiments it was not small. A small correction

Iis required to the time of coincidence in consequence of the dying
away of the arc of the free pendulum.     gave you this for the

case in which the interval between disappearance and reappearance

is small. I find the correction for the general case is

                      in (180)
/where b is the semi-amplitude of the free and a of the clock

pendulum, is the interval from disappearance to reappearance,

K the interval between coincidences, and q such that 1 : e~ qt

            AMERICAN PENDULUM SURVEY                            309

/is the ratio in which the arc decreases in the time t. When

Ivanishes, the above expression takes the form 0/0 and its limiting

value is the correction gave before. The correction is so small,

amounting to 3 seconds or so, that it need only be made very
roughly. The trouble of making it need therefore hardly be

considered. Provided a too small interval be avoided, and the
Ismall correction required on this method is introduced,
                                                                see
Inothing to object to in it. As so used, believe that your method

and the common method may both be regarded as perfect, the

chief source of error being in other directions.

UNITED STATES GRAVITY SURVEY.

            FROM PROF. C. S. PEIRCE.

                                        ITHACA, N.Y.
                                                Jan. 14, 1886.

MY DEAR SIR,

             I desire to thank you very warmly for your letter of
IDec. 28, which received only a day or two ago.

   IWe are ready to return the Kater pendulums ; indeed, we

should have done so a year ago, had not hoped to experiment

with the clock that came with them at the top and bottom of the
IWashington monument [550 feet high], but have had no leisure
Ito do so.
            will see that the pendulums are sent back as soon as
I return to Washington, in a few days.

     They have been oscillated at various stations in the Pacific

Ocean by Mr Edwin Smith, of the Coast Survey. You have, I

suppose, received his report. The work was not under my direct

Icontrol, but exercised advisory supervision over it. Both the

points you mention were attended to. At my instance, Mr Smith

always levelled up his knife-edge plane with a spirit-level, and was

not guided by touch.

     The correction of the time of coincidence for decrement of arc

was not, I believe, applied, as we wished to keep the work as

homogeneous with Herschel's as we could. The swingings were

all made at a constant pressure, and all began and ended at the
same amplitudes, and the same spots on the disc were used at all

310 CHRONOGRAPH METHOD COMPARED WITH COINCIDENCES

corresponding coincidences, so that no sensible errors in the ratios

of gravity could result from this cause. After seeing Colonel

IHerschel's plan of observing coincidences, was led to paste a

scale of millimetres on the clock-pendulum, and observe co-

incidences of a needle-point on the gravity-pendulum with the

divisions of this scale. I always corrected the time of coincidence

Ifor decrement of arc by means of a diagram which solved the
trigonometrical problem ; besides,  chose the divisions to be

observed upon so that when the amplitude of the gravity-

pendulum was greater than that of the clock-pendulum the

correction was reduced to zero, and was a minimum in the other

Icase. But have now given up coincidences, and gone back to

registering transits on a chronograph ; for that is generally less

trouble, and it has been fully shown 1st, that the probable error

of a single transit, including that of reading the sheet, is only

0*014 second at the beginning of a swinging, and about half as

large again at the end ; 2nd, that the absolute personal equation

if I Iis nil at the beginning, and at the end of 30,000 oscillations [even
       do not change the power of the eye-piece, as always do] is

only 0'022 second ; 3rd, that the probable accidental variation

of the personal equation is equal at the beginning and end, and

amounts only to O'Oll second approximately.

You are very indulgent to my unfortunate paper on the effect

of the flexure of a pendulum, which was printed from rough
notes, without my seeing the proof-sheets. In the reversible

pendulums now in use, the staff is considerably cut away to allow

the passage of the tongue on which the knife-edge rests. My

note was based on the idea that the flexure mainly occurred at
Ithe cut at the heavy end.
                            suppose the sagging to be measured

when the heavy end is held firmly horizontal, simply because the
distance between the knife-edges being a unit of linear measure

the linear sagging measured there is instantly converted into

angular sagging. But the most intelligible formulae, I suppose,

are obtained by denoting by a single letter the harmonic mean of

the angles of sagging when the upper and the lower pieces,

respectively, are held firmly horizontal. I will put these formulae

in a postscript, but since you have been so good as to take an

interest in the matter, 1 will endeavour shortly to send you some

actual numbers treated by a theory more conformed to the facts

of the case.

           TYPES OF PENDULUMS EMPLOYED                                                      311

     My regular determinations of gravity have been executed
with pendulums that are at once Invariable and Reversible.

They are measured at the beginning and end of each campaign,

and when any accident occurs, which is known by the alteration

Iin the difference of periods in the two positions, they are sent
back to be remeasured.  ordinarily swing two simultaneously

on two independent supports, so as to multiply data, and get a

check on the clock-rates. One pendulum measures a metre

between the knife-edges, the other a yard, so that they cannot

influence one another, and as the model of the two instruments
Iis the same, get a very good value for the ratio between the
Iyard and the metre as an incidental result.
                                                    expect that my
Ideterminations will teach the geologists many things, and wish,
if it turns out practicable to do so, to draw lines of equal gravity

residual over the map of the United States and its surroundings,

Canada, Mexico, the West Indies, Bermuda, the Eastern Pacific

Islands so as to find out something of the shape of the geoid
I Iwithin our borders.
                        have already, in addition to what have

published, a line of stations running from Montreal [Lat. 45J]
south to Key West [Lat. 24], and another from Cambridge, Mass.,

west to Madison, Wis., the difference of longitude being an hour

and a quarter. Unfortunately the prospect is that Congress,

influenced by a President not at all favorable to scientific ex-

penditures, will refuse me another appropriation, and thus bring my

work to an abrupt end. Yet Congress is generally ready to listen

to the voice of Science, when it recognizes  it,    and any word of

approval which you might choose to write to me or any otherS.

scientific man, would without doubt be of good service to my
work. With great admiration and respect, yours very faithfully,

                                             C. PEIRCE.

           To PROF. C. S. PEIRCE.

DEAR SIR,                                    LONDON,
                                                  19 May, 1886.

                    long time has elapsed since a letter passed between

us. am afraid the fault mine for though had been ex-
pecting to hear from you, you had still better reason to expect
a letter from me.
I

        A

                                         is

                                                                                         ;

                                           I

312 SAFE TRANSFER OF PENDULUMS

     The question of making some additional pendulum observations
has been entertained by a Committee of the Royal Society, and
the committee has just received a vote of money which will suffice
for a portion of the work.

     Our first object is to make a fresh comparison between gravity
at the American stations and gravity at Kew and Greenwich.
For this purpose we should want the pendulums back again in
the same condition in which they have been employed in the
American work. But

    1. We do not want to interrupt work now going on, if such

there be, in America which depends on the continued employment
of the same pendulums.

    2. It may perhaps be advisable before returning the pendulums
to swing them afresh at Washington or New York or both ; I

should be glad to know your opinion as to whether such a
re-determination would be desirable.

     3. For fear of the knife-edges getting rusted on the voyage
it might perhaps be well to run a drop of melted paraffin along

them before packing. It could easily be cleaned off on arrival

with clean warm wash-leather without risk of injuring the edges.
     4. Considering the way in which packages are liable to be

tossed about on ship-board, it would seem hardly safe to send

them as ordinary packages unless they were specially entrusted
to the care of the captain, and placed in his cabin. We should
be ready to make him a suitable remuneration for his trouble,
and to send someone to the port of landing on being apprized
beforehand of the name of the vessel and the time when she

was due.

                              CAMBRIDGE,

                              Ylth June, 1886.

IOn receiving your telegram from New York consulted one

of the leading members of the Pendulum Committee of the Royal
Society (though indeed I felt sure that we should all be extremely
Iglad if your proposal could  behacdarnrioedadoduret)ssanbdutthe" nNeIwteYleogrrkap"hefodr

in reply and also wrote.
Iyour present quarters, so addressed the telegram and letter
simply to you to New York. Shortly after that I got a message

from the post office that the telegram was not delivered because

PROPOSED CONNEXION OF EUROPE WITH AMERICA          313

Ithe name was not known.  cannot at present tell whether my

letter reached you. Your last letter was dated from Ithaca, but

the telegram was dated from New York.

   I Isaid was sure the Committee would be extremely glad if

you could come over to swing the pendulums at Kew and perhaps

also at Greenwich. It would seem indeed to be an almost

necessary supplement to the American work. Obviously the

value of this would be greatly enhanced if a thoroughly trust-

worthy connexion were established between American and

European stations. A connexion has indeed been made by

Col. Herschel but he employed a new method of adjusting the
agate planes, which d priori would seem to be rather precarious,

and at any rate has not yet received that degree of examination
which would seem requisite to inspire full confidence.

    It would be most desirable as you have been swinging the

pendulums at American stations that you should yourself complete

the connexion by swinging them in this country, as that would

ensure the strict comparability of the observations on the two

sides of the Atlantic Ocean.

   It has been suggested to me that if I put "U.S. Coast and

Geodetic Survey" on the letter it would be pretty sure to

find you.  I am, dear Sir, yours very faithfully,

                          G. G. STOKES.

DISTURBANCE OF GRAVITY BY CONTINENTS.

                           To PROF. E. HULL.

                                                                                                       26 Feb., 1887.

   I Iam afraid you will think have forgotten the question you

asked me in your letter. It is not so, but I thought that before

I Ianswering it would look into Professor Suess's book if could
Ifind it.... But if I had found it Ido not know that should have

been much the wiser, for as you say he gives no numerical data as
to the dimensions of the supposed continent, nor does he specify

what the continent actually is if he is dealing with a real, not an

ideal, continent.

314 CAUSE OF DEFECT IN GRAVITY OVER CONTINENTS

   IIn a paper " On the Variation of Gravity at the Surface of the

Earth*," which wrote long ago, and which is published in the

Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, and in my

ICollected Papers, of which as yet only two volumes have appeared,

  showed that the effect of a continent would be to make a slight
apparent diminution of gravity in continental stations as compared

with detached oceanic islands. It operates in this way : that

the attraction of the land causes the surface of the sea level,

the level surface, that which would be determined by a systemis
                         is,
of geodetic levelling carried from the coast inwards, to stand

higher from the centre of the earth than would have done had
                                         it it

                                              is
the place of the continent been occupied by ocean. The raising

of the sea level greatest inland, but                quite sensible, and

even important, at the coast itself of the continent.

How much the raising amounts to, depends of course on

the dimensions you attribute to the continent and the height

you give  it  above the undisturbed level of the sea. To take a

numerical example, suppose the case of circular island, or
              I                          it,
                                                  a
continent, whichever you please to call  1000 miles in diameter,

and elevated a quarter of a mile above the sea level.         suppose
                                                              I
the depth of the ocean in which this island          is       supposed to be
                                                                          it is
placed to be miles.           make the usual suppositions as to the
              2

                      II
average density of the rocks &c., in the neighbourhood of the

earth's surface, and as to the mean density of the earth, which

fairly well ascertained. find the elevation of the sea level in the

interior of the island or continent (Australia), good way from
the coast, to be about 400 feet. Of course in great continent
                                         Ia
                                              a
might be considerably greater. This would cause an apparent
diminution of gravity in continental stations, mean of course in

gravity as reduced by the usual methods to the level of the sea.

In the first place in reducing to the level of the sea we leave out

of consideration the attraction of the stratum of earth between

the actual sea level and what the sea level would have been
                                                              if
the continent had been away. As far as this goes, corrected        if
gravity ought to appear too great. But in the second place, in

reducing to the level of the sea we reduce to a point further

from the centre of the earth than we should have done         the

sea level had been unchanged, and therefore in correcting we

     * Cambridge Phil. Trans, vol. viii. (1849), pp. 672695.  [Math, and Phys.
Papers, vol. ii. (p. 155).]

NUMERICAL ILLUSTRATION  315

don't add enough to bring it up to what it would have been if

ocean had been beneath us instead of land. On this account

therefore gravity should appear too small, I mean reduced gravity.

The two effects on apparent gravity are antagonistic, but the

second is the stronger, so that on the whole gravity ought
caeteris paribus to appear a little less on continents than on

detached islands. Sabine and Airy have pointed out that such

Iappears to be the result of observation, but so far as know I

was the first to point out that such a result ought to follow from

the attraction of a continent, by disturbing the sea level.
     Far inland, the thing could only be tested in those cases

where the sea level has been accurately determined by geodetic
operations. We could not accordingly throw much light on the
question by means of pendulum observations in Thibet.

                             I am, dear Sir, yours very truly

     P.S. You will find Airy's discussion in his article " Figure of
the Earth " in the Encyclopaedia Metropolitana.

    An elevation of 400 feet, even if there had been no intervening

attraction to reduce the resulting diminution of gravity, would
only alter the number of vibrations per diem of a seconds'
pendulum by about one and a half. Of course apart from
disturbance the difference in the number per diem at two
stations on the same parallel of latitude would be nil, and

therefore the small difference of 1 5 would be infinity times

that. I do not know what the term of comparison used by

Fischer may be.

To E. F. J. LOVE.

                                                                 7 QUEEN'S PARADE, BATH,
                                                                                         6 August, 1891.

     DEAR MR LOVE,

         I have come here for a week or two, and have brought

your letter of June 19 with me to answer it from this house,

which is that of one of my sisters.

    You do not say expressly, but I take for granted that in the

contemplated gravity survey [of Australia] you mean to use
invariable pendulums, not Kater's pendulum or some other form

Iavailable for absolute determinations. It is generally, think,

316 ADVANTAGE OF INVARIABLE PENDULUMS

allowed that for determining the variation of gravity from place
to place the results obtained with invariable pendulums are the
more accurate. The series of determinations would be rendered

absolute by transporting the pendulums to some station where

gravity has been well determined absolutely and swinging them

there. It will suffice if the station last mentioned be one for

which gravity is accurately known absolutely by comparison,
by means of invariable pendulums used by previous observers,
with some other station where gravity had been determined

absolutely.

     At least two pendulums just like each other should be used,

in order that any accidental derangement of a pendulum may be

detected. Sabine said to me in conversation that there ought
to be three, as that would enable you, in the event of any
derangement taking place in course of transit or handling, to

tell which pendulum it was that had got altered. If you had

only two, and one got slightly deranged, you could only tell
which it was by going back to one of the stations where they

Ihad been previously used and swinging them afresh. However
   think two only have as a rule been all that have been used

Iin gravity surveys, and believe that with care in packing,

transporting, and handling, such derangements are not likely

to occur.

    Before fixing on the form we must answer the question, Is the

correction for the resistance going to be determined by calculation

or by experiment ?

   (a) If by calculation, we are restricted to forms for which it

is possible to effect the calculation. The pendulum might be a
plain cylindrical rod, or such a rod with a sphere at the end. In

an invariable pendulum, soundness of casting would not be of any

very great moment, the observations being strictly differential.
IIf a rod be used,
                    should prefer the ends being made hemi-

spherical, or thereabouts. The exact form is of no particular

consequence, for, for a small portion of the rod near the end

the calculation cannot be effected, whether the rod be left plain,
or formed into a hemisphere. The calculation for a sphere would
not apply to a hemisphere joined on to a cylinder. But the
part of the resistance which depends on what is near the end of

the rod forms only a small fraction of the whole, and if we are

obliged to have recourse to estimation for that small portion, the

              INFLUENCE OF VISCOSITY OF THE AIK     317

uncertainty thence arising can only be very small, since the rod

is supposed to be but narrow for its length. The alternative is

to adopt the form mentioned by General Walker, a cylindrical rod
Iwith a sphere at the end.
                            do not think there is much to choose
between these two forms. I think the latter would keep up its

oscillations somewhat longer, and the former would have to be

Iabout 5 feet long (for a seconds' pendulum) which might perhaps
be a little inconveniently long.  do not know however that this

would be any serious inconvenience.

    As to the calculation, it is to be remarked that the numerical

value of the index of friction given in my paper is much too low.

This arises in great measure from my having corrected for the

residual air in Baily's swings at reduced pressure (about one inch
of mercury) on the supposition (which seemed to be conformable
to the single experiment that Sabine had made on the subject)

that the coefficient of viscosity, the of my paper, varies as the
density. We now know that Maxwell's law, according to which
                            is                      aI
                               is
                                                             it
                                               //,
is  independent of the density, very accurately true in experi-

ment. The true coefficient now well known for air.  have

not got here books of reference, but towards the end of paper
of Tomlinson's in the Phil. Trans., in which he treats of the

viscosity of air, you will find collected the numerical results of

various observers, himself included. The effect of reducing, in

my paper, by law as to the relation between viscosity and
              a

density, now known not to be the law of nature, was to exaggerate

the effect of reduction of pressure, in other words, to under-

estimate the effect of the residual air, and therefore, in equating

the theoretical expression for the difference between 30 inches

pressure and     inch in the observed result, to bring out
              1

                      it

                                                         a

                                         I
                                          I

                                                                        it

                                                                                                         a
coefficient which was decidedly too small.

    The adoption however of the true law, though    raises

considerably the coefficient of viscosity as got from Baily's

experiments, leaves  still too small.               do not see how to

account for this except on the supposition that the motion of

the pendulums was not small enough to allow of a strict

application of the formulas of my paper.            have remarked in

my paper (at least with reference to suspending wire, and the
same would of course be true generally) that the effect of the
formation of eddies would be to tend to throw the effect of the

resistance from off the time on to the arc. Whether any sensible

318 TEST FOR EXISTENCE OF SENSIBLE EDDIES

part of the resistance is due to the formation of eddies, may be

tested by seeing whether the arc of vibration decreases strictly

Iin geometric progression as the time increases in arithmetic.
    examined in this way some of Sabine's experiments in the
Phil. Trans., and some of Bessel's experiments with the long

and short pendulums. Plotting a curve with the time and the

log. arc for coordinates, it came a straight line for the long

pendulum, but the curve, though very nearly a straight line for

the shorter pendulums, had a sensible though slight curvature.
I Iforget whether this is mentioned in my paper.
                                                  rather think
Inot. Yet on second thoughts it seems to me as if recollected
making a slight allusion to it. It appears therefore that with the

amplitude of vibration usual in pendulum experiments, at least in

the early portion of the swing, the effect of eddies is not wholly
insensible, and therefore it may well be that the formula in which

the motion is assumed to be small enough to be regular may not

be quite applicable to the actual experiments. However beyond

the discrepancy between the calculated and observed decrement

of the arc of vibration, which I have mentioned in my paper,

and also the decrement being not quite strictly in geometric

progression, there was nothing to indicate that the formulas

were in any way in fault, so very good seemed the agreement

between theory and observation, until it was shown that the

correction of the assumed law as to the relation between the

viscosity and the density still left the numerical value of the

index of friction as determined by the pendulum experiments

slightly too small.

     But in merely differential observations, such as those carried

on with invariable pendulums, I think any uncertainty of this

kind would be quite insensible, provided that care were taken

that the observations should be strictly differential or very nearly

so. Hence if you wish to connect a group of Australian stations
with Indian stations, it is a perfectly open question whether you

shall choose a pressure of say 28 inches for the Australian set or

a pressure of say  4 inches  (or   whatever the usual Indian pressure
for India was).    That is   on
                                  the supposition, which I gather from

your letter is intended, that you mean to construct new pendulums.

The pendulums being different, the two series cannot be connected

till the new pendulums are swung at one of the old stations,

unless you are ready to trust to a reference of each series to

METHODS OF CORKECTING FOR DENSITY OF THE AIR 319

an absolute determination belonging to it. But in either case

if the higher pressure were thought the more convenient for

the Australian stations, and it were not wished to trust to a

correction for so great a difference of pressure as 28 and 4 inches,

it would merely be requisite to swing the invariable pendulums

twice in succession at the reference station, once at the higher

pressure, to connect with the Australian series, and once at a low

pressure to connect with the Indian series or with the absolute
Ifdetermination as the case may be.
                                     the vacuum apparatus be
Inot quite staunch, as fear may prove to be the case, it might be

better, as a matter of convenience and indeed accuracy, and as

Major Herschel has proposed, to use the vacuum apparatus only

for securing a constant pressure of say 27 or 28 inches, except of

course for the one set of swings at low pressure taken at the

station of reference. However, much would depend on the

condition of the vacuum apparatus.

   I will mention here, lest I should forget
a                                             that                                       well to
                  a

                          if

                                                     a
                                                                        a

                                                                    it,

                                                                   it

                                                                                     is
allow an observation (whether by single swing, as may be done

in vacua, or by succession of swings does not much matter) to

extend over 24 hours, or that be inconvenient at least from

dark to dark, through day or night as may be chosen, so as to
rate the clock by transits for the interval of time over which the

observations extend. For you cannot trust clock, even though

the rate from day to day be very uniform, to be quite exempt
from diurnal inequality of rate.

     (6) Suppose now that we prefer to depend on experiment for
the correction for the air. Then we may choose our form of

pendulum as we please. That usually employed has the bar
somewhat thin, in fore and aft direction, so as to be slightly
(I

              it

             I

                             it a

                                                      '

                               it I I iIs

                                                                                                        a

                                                              I
flexible. Without this there       believe some difficulty in

ensuring that the weight shall bear well on both agate planes,
so as not to run the risk of turning slightly about a vertical

axis to and fro as  swings.        recollect some one (Sabiue

think) telling me that some one, forget who, did not like the

flexibility, and proposed to make the pendulum stiff, and Kater

think       was) said, He'll find  will not do.'

The form having been chosen, we have to find the correction

for the air experimentally. This demands the use of vacuum

apparatus.  think the most convenient plan would be to get a

fac-simile of the pendulum made of wood. The resistance of the

320 USE OF LIGHT MODEL TO DETERMINE VISCOSITY

air depends only on the form and time of vibration of the

Ipendulum, mean supposing the state of the air given ; and

these would be the same for the actual pendulum and for the

wooden model. By avoiding specially dense wood, we might

easily get the model 10 or 12 times as light as the actual

pendulum, and the effect of the air on arc and time would be

magnified 10 or 12 times. The whole time of the swing would
be reduced in the same proportion ; but this would not signify

as regards having a shorter interval by which to divide any error
of observation in the initial or final coincidence, for the method of

coincidences is so exact that it may be deemed perfect ; that is to

say any error from this would be swallowed up by much larger

errors from other sources ; and that being the case there is a
great saving of time in using the model, besides which we are

less exposed to errors from variations in the clock's rate, changes
of temperature, &c. However, the actual pendulum might of

course be used, and probably in any case an observation or two

would be taken with this for control. And besides the saving

of time in taking the observations, resulting from using a wooden

model, the possibility of taking swings in close proximity, merely

allowing an interval sufficient to allow the disturbance of
temperature consequent on the exhaustion or admission of air

Ito subside, would think be conducive to accuracy as securing

a more near identity in the rate of the clock on the occasion of

Ithe two swings that are to be compared.

       do not see that Reynolds's paper, important though it be in

its proper place, has much to say to our problem. I need not say

that there is nothing new in the formation of eddies ; it is a

matter of common observation ; and in an earlier paper T pointed

out that the kind of resistance of a fluid to a moving solid that
Iwe usually consider is due to eddies. When wrote my paper
IIon pendulums
was keenly alive to the possibility of the
formation of eddies; and indeed if rightly recollect I was

rather surprised that in the pendulum motion eddies seemed to
have so little effect as manifested by the close accordance between

theory and observation, though the theoretical results were

calculated on the supposition that the motion was regular,

i.e. non-eddying. The novel results obtained by Reynolds are in

my mind the two following :
     (1) The conditions of dynamical similarity which enable us to

THEORY OF DIMENSIONS IN TURBULENT MOTION      321

pass from one system to another dynamically as well as geometric-
ally similar, provided the motion be of the regular kind, may also
be applied to the discrimination between regular and eddying

motion ; so that if in one case we are on the border between the

two, we will also be on the border in all other cases which are

dynamically as well as geometrically similar.
     (2) The said conditions may further be applied to the mean

effects in two cases which are dynamically as well as geometrically
similar, and which lie on the irregular side of the limit.

     As an example of what we could infer from Reynolds's work:
suppose we had ascertained that a sphere of 1 inch diameter
vibrating in a time from rest to rest of 1 second, the amplitude

of vibration being 1*5 inch, was just in a transitional state from
regular to eddying motion, then we could infer from Reynolds's

principle that if we had a sphere vibrating in a time of 0*64 sec.
instead of 1 sec., then if the diameter were 0'8 inch and the

amplitude 1'2 inch, this also would be in the transitional state.

     You mention the corrections for pressure and temperature.
The latter depends partly on the expansion of the metal, partly
on the effect of temperature in altering the state of the air, and

therewith the correction on account of the air. I am not sure

whether or not you meant to include the effect of the expansion
of the metal.

   IIf it is intended to keep the two parts separate, suppose it

is meant to calculate the part due to the expansion of the metal

from the linear expansion either ascertained or assumed as known
for the kind of metal employed. As to the air, the correction for
buoyancy, and that portion of the correction for inertia which

would form the whole if there were no viscosity, both one and

the other vary as the density, and therefore in a known manner
as regards the temperature. The rest of the correction for inertia
depends in a more complicated manner on the temperature *. The

whole of this residue for a sphere, and the first term and most
important part of it for a not too narrow cylindrical rod, varies

as Vyu-p ; p of course varies inversely as 1 + a@, 6 the temperature,

a the coefficient of expansion, but p increases as the temperature

rises, according to what law does not appear to be known for
Icertain.
           think experiments on transpiration gave it about as
I I(1 + a#)' 7, but am away from books of reference, and do not

remember exactly.  * See supra, p. 279.

S. B. II.                                 21

322 COMPLEXITY OF TEMPERATURE CORRECTION

If the temperature correction should be determined directly as

a whole, i.e. effect on metal and on air together, by swinging the

pendulum at two pretty widely separated temperatures, it is to be

remembered that as it is made up of two different parts (effect
on metal and effect on air) following different laws, so it will not

be available unless some one element (say the pressure) be kept

constant. The experiment would involve the use of an apartment

artificially heated in an equable manner*, unless we were content

to wait all the time from one season to another, say summer to

winter. The temperature correction so determined for a pressure

of say 28 inches would not apply (on account of that part of it

which depends on the air) to a pressure of say 3 inches. It would

seem to be best to correct as best may be for that part which is

Idue to the air, so as to get the part which is due to the expansion
of the metal.  think the effect of the air can be got well by

using a wooden model, and altering the observed effect in the

ratio of Mh to M rti ; and M/M' can be got by weighing, and h/h'

by balancing separately the model and actual pendulum on their

edges.

   I shall be happy to reply to further enquiries.

               Yours very truly.

     *P.S. With a wooden model the effect of the air is so much

larger, the time of swinging so much shorter, and the expansion
of the material by heat so much smaller, that there would be
little difficulty in rigging up an apartment which would serve
quite well enough for that.

     [In 1891 the memoir on the Effect of Viscosity on Pendulums
was translated by C. Wolf for inclusion in the two volumes of
Memoires sur le Pendule which belong to the Collection de Memoires
sur le Physique published by the French Physical Society; and

the translator expresses his obligation to Prof. Stokes for assistance
in his task.]

     J'avais eu 1'intention de reproduire ici la partie du Memoire
de M. Stokes : Sur les theories dufrottement interiear des fluides en
mouvement (Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
Vol. in. Part n. p. 287 ; 1847), dans laquelle il a etabli les equa-

tions (1). Mais M. Stokes m'a fait remarquer que ces equations
peuvent et doivent etre considerees comme connues : ' Navier a
donne bien avant moi les Equations du mouvement d'un liquide
ou Ton tient compte de la viscosite, et Poisson a donne les dqua-

HISTORICAL REMAKES ON VISCOSITY                                             323

tions correspondantes pour un fluide elastique ou non ; ses
Equations contiennent deux constantes qui dependent de la nature
du fluide, et elles se reduisent a celles de Navier si le fluide est
incompressible. Elles different des equations ordinaires de 1'Hy-
drodynamique par 1'introduction dans la premiere de termes qui
peuvent se mettre sous la forme

d2 u d2u d*u\                     V d /du   dv dw\

       +                                         +

avec des termes semblables dans la deuxieme et la troisieme.
Mes equations seraient identiques a celles de Poisson, si je n'y
avais introduit que les hypotheses qui sont le fondement meme de
ma methode. Mais une hypothese additionnelle qui, sans etre

fondamentale, m'a paru presenter un tres haut degre de probabi-
lite, y a reduit les deux constantes a une seule, en etablissant

entre elles la relation
                                                          = 3i>.
;
                              //,

                                                                        p.

                                                  II
Maxwell est arrive plus tard aux memes equations, avec la meme

relation entre les deux constantes, en partant de sa theorie dyna-

mique des gaz (Philosophical Transactions, 1867,    81).                    me

semble done sans interet de traduire la premiere partie de mon

premier Memoire les equations diffe'rentielles partielles qu'il faut

appliquer a la solution du probleme de la resistance au mouvement

du pendule peuvent etre regardees comme connues, puisqu'elles

ont ete obtenues independamment par plusieurs g^ometres, qui

s'accordent tous les uns avec les autres.'

REMARQUE SUR LE MEMOIRE DE M. G. STOKES.

Le Memoire de M. Stokes fait faire un progres immense a
                            je a

                                                    V
                                                                   p.

                                                                     je
la theorie du pendule, en definissant d'une maniere precise la

cause du fait observe par Du Buat et par Bessel, et en permettant

d'en calculer la valeur numerique. (Voir Introduction historique
que j'ai placee en tete du Tome IV de ce Recueil,   xxv.) Mais

a Tepoque ou parut ce travail, n'existait pas d'experiences suffi-

santes pour permettre de comparer avec surete la theorie nouvelle

et Tobservatiori. De la une lacune au sujet de laquelle                  laisse

la parole a JVJ. Stokes lui-meme. Voici ce qu'il m'ecrivait en

repondant a la demande que        lui avais adressee, de publier la

traduction de son grand Memoire.                         c.w.

                                                    212

324 EEDUCTION OF BAILY'S OBSERVATIONS

     ' Les plus importantes series d'experiences dont je disposals
pour comparer la theorie et 1'observation etaient celles de Baily,
qui avait cherche' a determiner 1'influence de 1'air sur la dur^e

d'oscillation d'un pendule, en faisant osciller le meme pendule

dans 1'air et dans un milieu tres rarefie. Si le vide avait e'te ab-

solu, ou du moins pratiquement parfait, tout aurait march ^ tout

droit. Mais, comme la pression de 1'air rarefie atteignait ordinaire-

ment un pouce environ de mercure, 1'influence de 1'air restant

n'etait nullement insensible, et il etait necessaire d'en corriger le

resultat. Le calcul de cette correction exigeait la connaissance de

la loi qui lie le coefficient de viscosite de Fair avec la densite p.
           il il

                       /-t

                                                        a

                                                                                       //,
                                                                                                        ;

                                                              //
M'appuyant sur une seule experience de Sabine, faite avec 1'hydro-

gene, gaz dont est bien difficile de garantir la purete absolue,
surtout quand n'est pas prepare par un chimiste de profession,
j'ai suppose que variait proportionnellement a p, en d'autres

termes, que ce que j'appelais Yindice de frottement                                                        etait

independant de la densite. On sait aujourd'hui que c'est le

coefficient de viscosite yu,, et non 1'indice yu/, qui est independant
de la densite. La supposition adoptee done eu pour consequence

de rendre trop faible 1'influence de 1'air restant et, par suite, en

comparant la difference obseivee des durees d'oscillation dans 1'air

a pression entiere et sous faible pression a sa valeur theorique, j'en

ai conclu une valeur trop petite du coefficient de viscosite.

    'J'ai eu longtemps 1'intention de calculer a nouveau les

experiences de Baily en prenant /a, et non plus leindependant

                                                       il //,
                                                                                              ;
                                                                               le
de la densite, conform em en a ce que nous savons aujourd'hui et
           t

                   a
c'est la en realite la cause qui retarde la publication du troisieme

Volume de mes Memoires*. Un calcul rapide m'a fait voir que

1'effet de cette correction serait d'accroitre  coefficient de vis-

cosite' d'environ 40 pour 100 de sa valeur. Get accroissement

rapprocherait de sa valeur vraie  ;      dis valeur vraie, parce que ce

                                     je

coefficient est aujourd'hui bien connu. Cependant serait reste

encore sensiblement trop faible. Cette faiblesse provient-elle de

ce que la vitesse n'a pas ete assez petite pour prevenir la formation

de remous provient-elle de quelque autre cause inconnue C'est
je                                                   ?
        ;
ce que ne puis dire aujourd'hui.'

* See addition in Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. in. pp. 136 141.

VISCOSITY CORRECTION FOR FINITE SWINGS                            325

MEDINDEE, BURTON ROAD, DIDSBURY,

                         May 18, 1895.

DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,

I would have written sooner to thank you for your

note about the pendulum but various occupations, including a

Roy. Soc. Council, have interfered.

   I think the argument quite satisfactory as far as you press it.
I have not had time to look up the literature of pendulum

observations, to ascertain whether any indication of change of

coefficient or law of resistance (with amplitude) can be extracted
from them*. From the point of view of your letter such a change

would be more likely to shew itself with oscillations of long period

than of short, since there is more time for cumulative effects ?

Yours very faithfully,

           HORACE LAMB.

                      FROM M. ALFRED CORNU.

                                                     TROUVILLE SUE MER (CALVADOS).
                                                                              le 21 Juillet 1878.

                                                               PARIS 38 R. DES ECOLES.

      CHER ET TRES HONOR MONSIEUR,

            Je vous remercie beaucoup des demarches que vous avez
faites aupres de Sir G. Airy relativement aux experiences de Baily

et de 1'aimable lettre que vous avez bien voulu m'envoyer a ce
sujetf.

    * "It is however possible that with amplitude of vibration so large as those

actually used, amounting to about 1 to start with, there may have been a very
slight production of eddies, the effect of which on the time of vibration may not
have been wholly insensible." Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. in. p. 140, appendix
to memoir on pendulums added in 1901. Cf. also Lamb, Hydrodynamics, 1906,

    290.

   t This letter relates to the revision of Baily's reduction of his observations to

determine the mean density of the Earth by the method of the Cavendish experi-
ments, which was made by M. Cornu with a view to removing the discrepancy with
his own well-known determinations. There is a series of notes in the Comptes
Eendus, LXXVI. 1878, by Cornu and Bailie, on correction for the resistance of the
air to the slow vibrators, showing that a linear law of resistance suffices. The

following extract (p. 701, Mar. 18) explains the subject of the letter: "En vue de

diminuer la dure*e d'une experience, ces deux observateurs out profite de 1'instant

326 REVISION OF BAILY'S CAVENDISH EXPERIMENT

    J'ai bien tarde a vous repondre, mais un malheur de famille

m'a frappe cruellement efc depuis encore, differentes preoccupations

m'ont retenu et empeche de vous ecrire.

          Vous avez parfaitement defini ce qu'il y aurait a faire pour

la correction des resultats de Baily : il suffirait simplement, corame

vous le proposez, de substituer la deuxieme moyenne (2nd mean)
a la troisieme (3rd mean, or Resting point) en acceptant le temps

d'oscillation N adopte.
    Quant a la valeur du temps, N, il ne doit pas etre modifie y

car les observations qui le fournissent sont comprises dans des

parties de 1'oscillation completement affranchies de la cause
d'erreur qui a pu vicier la premiere lecture de chaque se'rie.

     Le calcul de 1'erreur probable serait peu utile, on pourra done

s'en dispenser.
     Le travail de revision sera done un peu long, mais sans aucune

difficulte.

    J'ai eu 1'occasion a Paris, dans ces derniers temps, d'entretenir
Lord Lindsay, President de la Societe Royale Astronomique de
Londres, de ce sujet: j'ai done suivi votre obligeant conseil, et
Lord Lindsay me parait tres favorable au projet dont j'ai eu

1'honneur de vous faire part.

    Je compte lui ecrire, comme President, une lettre avec 1'expose

succinct de la question, et je pense que les calculs pourront etre

accomplis.

            Veuillez agr^er, je vous prie,
            Cher et tres honore Monsieur,

            1'assurance de mon respectueux

            devouement,

                         A. CORNU.

de 1'elongation, ou le levier est pour ainsi dire stationnaire pendant quelques
secondes, pour effectuer la manoeuvre d'inversion des masses ; la meme elongation
peut ainsi etre utilisee a deux titres, comme la derniere d'une serie et la premiere
de la serie suivante." On account of unavoidable disturbances in effecting the
inversion, the first swing cannot thus be utilized; and its rejection led in fact to a

satisfactory agreement.

               SPECTRA FROM THIN QUARTZ FIBRES                           327

CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR C. VERNON BOYS.

                                         S. KENSINGTON,
                                                        3rd Nov., 1890.

DEAR SIR GEORGE,

              IIn the summer you asked me to let you have some
quartz fibre.  now leave a box containing one long one wound

18 times up and down the frame. The front and back of the box

are of glass so that the fibre may be examined without risk, and

black paper is placed at one end in case a dark background may

be required.

The glass may be taken out after first removing a screw at the

end, and then the frame can be removed.

The fibre is good, in that under the prism test it shows both

perfectly uniform pieces and places where the variation in diameter

gives rise to small [i.e. short but pronounced and jagged] bends in
the dark bands of the spectrum.

To see these spectra to perfection the following is the best way

to hold the box arid a prism : first see the colours with the naked

eye [with light from a slit, the box intervening] and then hold
a low-angle prism in front of the eye, not in the natural position of

minimum deviation, but inclined so that incident light falls at

about the polarising angle. It is only thus that the dark bands

appear really dark.

On then moving the box along its own length so as to make

successive parts of the fibres occupy the same position, you will

see some of the fibres giving a constant spectrum which is the test

of uniformity, while some show the irregularities described.

     Also the variation of the spectrum with the angle of incidence
will be evident. The more nearly the fibre is between the eye and

the sun, the fewer will be the bands.

I have the honour to be your obedient servant,

                                         C. V. BOYS.

328 PURE SPECTRUM FROM SLIT AND PRISM ALONE

                               LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                        7 Nov., 1890.

MY DEAR SIR,

           I found yesterday at the Royal Society your letter and

I Ithe enclosed quartz fibre that you were so good as to leave for me.

   brought it home with me, but have not yet had sunshine
wherewith to examine it. You will, I doubt not, allow me to
Ikeep it somewhat longer till
                                              have had an opportunity of

I itexamining             which at this time of year may not be very soon.
   I
am not sure whether your mention of the polarising angle
                     it,
was meant to do more than give an idea of the angle at which

was found best in the circumstances of your experiment to hold

the face of incidence towards the incident light. The explanation,

feel persuaded, has nothing* to do with polarisation.

                                              Yours very truly,

                                                                        G. G. STOKES.

a                                                                                    Nov., 1890.

              is
                    a

                      I
                              I

                                                                               is 8
As this                   bright day, went to my lecture room and had a

look at the bands by sunlight. As fully expected, and as, likely

enough, you may be already aware, the question of the inclination

of the prism in order to see the bands distinctly simply one of

focusing. The conditions of getting a pure spectrum, with slit
                                                                                     va
at finite distance, are that the edge of the prism shall be parallel

to the slit, and the primary focal line corresponding to any

element of the slit shall be at the distance of distinct vision. If u

be the distance of the focus of incidence from the prism, the

distance of the primary focal line after refraction through the

prism, <,  the angles of incidence and emergence, <', ty' the
           V T|T
                            2

                       j^o/r

                      2^
corresponding angles in glass, we have

           = COS          COS  (f>'   =  COS22(u?                       + COS
                                                                              ^TT ^
                                   U          T -/\Jra_
                                                                     1

and we see at once that the ratio of to u lies between - ~v                          :

and If the eye nearer to the fibre than the distance of dis-

                                            * But see p. 333 infra.
1.

                         is

             VARIOUS SPECTRA FROM THIN QUARTZ FIBRE          329

tinct vision for the colour observed (for the eye is not achromatic)

you must turn the prism from its position of minimum deviation so

as to increase the angle of incidence. If you put on convex

spectacles the requisite inclination (which will of course depend
on the distance of the fibre and the power of the spectacles) will

very likely have to be at the opposite side of the position of

minimum deviation.

   I have too much on hand at present to examine the precise
Ihistory of the light which produces the colours; but think it

probable that those seen nearly in the direction of the incident

             making no very large angle with        it,     are due to
Ilight, that
        aa                                              iIf
                   is,diffraction, the same as the fibre had been opaque, and those
                                    if
              I
seen at moderately small angle to the direction opposite to that

of the incident light are those of the primary glass-bow,    may

so call rainbow in which water replaced by glass.
                                        is
       have seen the variations you mentioned as indicative of
                                            I
variations of thickness.

P.S. When said that to get a pure spectrum the slit must

be parallel to the edge of the prism, had in view the general

case. In the particular case in which the spectrum  is      pure when

the prism in its position of minimum deviation, the pencil from
       is

any element of the slit and for any colour diverges after refraction,

not from two focal lines, but from a point, and the spectrum will

still be pure though the slit be not parallel to the edge.

                           SCIENCE  AND ART DEPARTMENT, SOUTH KENSINGTON,
                                                       8tk Nov., 1890.
             SIR GEORGE,
DEAR

       II    hope  it if  the quartz fibres are any use you will keep
          I
them.  had the box made so that what believed would be the
                                               I

                                                              I

                                                                           it

                                                                                      is
most interesting feature to you, viz. the optical, could be easily
examined without risk.

         used the expression " polarising angle " to express the angle

at which, about, the phenomena are more marked. If the prism
is

  I
held at minimum deviation, as would be natural, the dark
Ifbands are not dark and are not even conspicuous.
                                                    however

held at about this angle they seem quite black.

it     did not feel sure that polarisation had anything to do with

  ;Iyet believed had for the following reasons. First could

330 DIFFERENT POLARISATIONS OF THE BANDS

not understand why the tilting of the prism should make the dark

bands more conspicuous unless by such tilting interfering light

was got rid of; as the angle was evidently about the polarising

angle, it appeared as if light polarised one way was either not

broken up into bands or was differently banded, and the most

perfect elimination of this was important. Acting on this I have

interposed a double-image prism of very small separating power,

and have found that the two lights polarised at right angles to

Ione another do produce different spectra. These showed at the

Itime (nearly two years ago) to Prof. Riicker.
        do not profess to understand the complete theory of these

Icolours, but think it possible that a careful examination of them

Imight at any rate confirm optical principles or possibly do more.

      should have said that if the light, the fibre, and the eye are

in the same plane, banded spectra are produced, but in this case

Ithe bands are much more numerous as would be expected.

       should not presume to have sent you the fibres if you had

not asked me for some in the summer.
IN.B. Those on the frame are about the size that
                                                    have

found most suitable for the radio-micrometer.

               LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                          llth Nov., 1890.

IThanks for your letter, and the mention you made of what
you observed.  will as you allow me keep the fibres somewhat

longer. At this time of year one gets on slowly with work
Idemanding sunlight, besides which it happens that
                                                    am at

present extremely busy.

    I had noticed that in the bands seen by what I may call

I Ireflection the number was a good deal greater than when they

were seen by what may call transmission. As observed them,

the plane containing the incident ray and the ray entering the

eye was however approximately perpendicular, not parallel, to the

fibre.

   I mean to try the experiment you mention with a double-
Iimage prism. Meanwhile I am disposed to think* that the diffe-

rence in the two spectra (by which understand you to mean that

               * See next letter.

CALCULATION OF DIFFRACTED LIGHT                                             331

the places of the bands were different) was due merely to the
difference of direction in which the rays entering the eye left the
fibre. There would be a difference of direction comparable to

the angular separation between the two images, multiplied by the
ratio of the distance from the pupil to the double-image prism to

the distance from the latter to the fibre.

                                                VLth Nov., 1890.

I had not when I wrote last looked at the spectrum of the

fibres with polarised light ; and when you wrote that you had

Iviewed the light through a prism and double-image prism, and

that the spectra were different, assumed that you meant that

the bands were different* (for a difference of  intensity  merely, to
                                                pictured   to myself
Isome extent, might be anticipated) and
Ibands lying in a somewhat different position, and meant to test

this, using a Nicol instead of a double-image prism, or rather, to
try it both ways.

    It occurred to me that the correctness (or otherwise) of my

supposition that the banded spectrum was that of diffracted light

might admit of being tested by polarisation, that when the devia-

tion from the course of the direct light was tolerably large, the

polarisation (if that were the origin of the light) might be strong

fenough to show easily. I have a way of showing that the
totality of the diffracted light equals what would be the totality of

the transmitted if none were sent elsewhere by reflection, and

therefore (as much more is refracted than reflected) the totality of
the diffracted exceeds, but does not very greatly exceed, the

totality of the transmitted. The distribution however of the two

respectively over the different directions of deflection is different.

ILast night calculated the proportion of the intensity for lights

polarised parallel and perpendicular to the fibres, for each of the

two kinds separately, for each of the angles of deviation 20, 40,

60 degrees^. Taking in each case the portion of the light of that
kind (diffracted or transmitted as the case may be), which is

* As is confirmed in the postscript.

t See letter to Lord Rayleigb, p. 119 supra.

J This calculation exists, in MS. The angles as given infra are different.

332 RAINBOW FROM QUARTZ FIBRE

Ipolarised in a plane parallel to the fibre at 100, find for the

light polarised perpendicular     to the fibre :                                  30       40
                                             20                                 170'4     399'9
   ......At deviation
   ......in diffracted                    142*6                                   78'0      56'2
   ......in transmitted                     94'0

or if we prefer to express them in percentages of the total light

(diffracted or transmitted) in each case :

                   In diffracted

polarised perpendicular                58\S                                     63'0      80'0
                                       41'2                                     37'0      20'0
polarised parallel                ...

                  In transmitted

polarised perpendicular                48'5                                     43'8      36'0

polarised parallel                ... 51'5                                      56*2      64'0

Hence it may very well be that when viewed, at a considerable

deviation, by light polarised perpendicularly to the fibre, the

diffracted light preponderates over the transmitted, but when

viewed by light polarised parallel to the fibre the transmitted

light preponderates over the diffracted. The less numerous and

more conspicuous bands belong to the diffracted light; those of

the transmitted are more numerous.

   IIn what may call the reflected light, that
                                  a                                                       the light pro-
                                                                      is,
ceeding in direction making moderate angle with the course of
            it a
the incident light reversed, the bands seemed sensibly the same

whether the light was polarised perpendicular or parallel to the

fibre, but        was somewhat brighter in the former case. This

                  I

                                             it,

                                                                             ;
agrees with the origin attributed to namely, that was the
                                                                                          I it
light inside the primary glass-rainbow. For this there are two
                                                                                              it
refractions with an intermediate reflection but the single reflec-

tion much predominates in its effect on the polarisation over the

two refractions.

have never worked with a silvering solution, but don't see
I

               a
any reason why one of these very fine fibres should not be capable

of taking silver coating.         A    very thin silver coating would

hardly sensibly increase the thickness of the fibre, and would

stop the transmission of light, so as to allow of the diffracted

light being studied apart. It would also stop the rainbow

 \\ -In diffracted light at deflection                                                            in

J/spectrum (from theory) = D sin
                                       number of band-intervals
                                       6

                                           [

                                               6,

                                                                         ^
                                                                                       )
                                       rbrluer        j

                                                  Xred/

NUMBER AND POLARISATION OF DIFFRACTION BANDS 333

   IP.S. did not go on with the experiment with a double-
I Iimage prism, because when saw the spectra found they were

quite different, now [not ?] merely showing the same bands in a
slightly displaced position in the one as compared with the
other.

                                                                                                       14 Nov., 1890.

   II finished my last in a hurry, in order to catch the post, and
Ifelt doubtful afterwards whether had explained that the D in
the formula meant the diameter of the fibre ; but even if I did not

define it you probably guessed what it meant.

    I have not at present attempted, except very cursorily, to

calculate the bands for the transmitted light. This is a much

more complicated matter than the theory of the diffracted light.

IIn calculating the polarisation, took the observed light as follow-
Iing the course assigned to it by geometrical optics. This

Ibelieve is quite near enough for the purpose, but to give a com-

plete theory of the bands believe that diffraction would have to

be taken account of as well as refraction *.

    In calculating the polarisation of the diffracted light, I assumed
Ithe truth of a result arrived at in a paper on the dynamical

theory of diffraction, published long ago in the Transactions of the
Cambridge Philosophical Society^, and also that, in accordance with

the experiments therein described, the vibrations in polarised light

are perpendicular (not parallel) to the plane of polarisation. The
experiments were made by means of a glass grating. In looking

at the light coming from the fibres at a considerable inclination

to the course of the incident light produced, I was struck with

Ithe facility with which the polarisation could be observed in what

  was led to regard as the diffracted light. It struck me that the

crucial experiment mentioned in that paper could be performed

by much simpler appliances by using a silvered thin fibre than by
Imeans of a grating.
                      should not, however, have time at present

to engage in anything of the kind.

     * The positions of the supernumerary rainbow formed in a thin jet of water, as
explained by Airy, were observed over a long range by W. H. Miller. The recondite

calculations required to compare theory with experiment were effected by Stokes.
For the actual details of comparison cf. Larmor, Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. vi. Oct.
1888, and vii. Jan. 1891.

    t "On the Dynamical Theory of Diffraction," especially Part n. Section n.
Trans. C. P. S. vol. ix. 1849 ; Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. n. See addendum in

the reprint ; cf. also supra, p. 112.

334     SUPERPOSED BANDS OF DIFFERENT POLARISATIONS

                                                                                            13 Nov., 1890.

      DEAR SIR GEORGE,

            I am much obliged to you for your letters on the optical

behaviour of the threads, which explain what puzzled me when

observing the march of the bands during a slow and gradual
change in the angle of incidence of the light (in a plane normal to
the fibre). An electric arc was placed behind the slit of a large
spectrometer, and the prism was replaced by a hanging fibre.
The observing telescope had its object-glass taken out and the
eye-piece replaced by a direct vision prism of low dispersive
power. During the variation of the angle of incidence the bands

Idid not march up the spectrum uniformly, but as put it at the

Royal Institution lecture on quartz fibres, moved more like the legs
of a caterpillar walking. This successive movement was no doubt
due to the passage of two independent sets of bands over one

another. They certainly were much more clearly defined at

certain angles than at others on either side.

   IIt was with this [idea] that added a double-image prism of

low separating power, so placed that one spectrum was immediately
above the other. Then, the two spectra just overlapping, the
relative displacement of the bands could be easily observed.

   ILast spring I silvered a fine quartz fibre which I afterwards

sent to Prof. FitzGerald. used it as a conducting torsion thread,

and I remember on holding it up to the light that the colours of

true diffraction were very marked.

                                      3rd December.

IMany thanks for your further explanation of the cause of the
bands.  am unable to try the experiment you suggest as to the

Icause of those bands that are always present, as the spectrometer

that used is now employed for some experiments in the astro-

I Inomical department.
     The reference which
        could not give yesterday have just
looked up. It is " On the Electro-magnetic theory of Light,"
Lord Rayleigh, Phil Mag., Aug. 1881.

INTERFERENCE OF TRANSMITTED AND DIFFRACTED LIGHTS 335

                                                                        CAMBRIDGE, 2 December, 1890.

   IAs travelled back to Cambridge in the dark (except as to the
Ipoor light in the carriage) thought over the spectra which you

showed me.

   II feel little doubt that the transverse bands in the spectrum of

a violently tapering fibre have the origin suggested, namely, that

they are due to the interference of the diffracted light with the
transmitted*. In a uniform fibre the bands due to the inter-

ference of these two kinds of light would be parallel to the fibre,

and naturally in an intermediate case, that
        I                                                                                       in a more gently
                                                         is,
                                             I                                                  now think
tapering fibre, they would have an inclined position.

that the fine bands saw in the spectrum of the fibres you lent

me are due to the interference of the diffracted with the trans-

mitted light, rather than to the interference of different parts of

the transmitted light with one another. And this accounts for

the delicacy of the test which they afford of the uniformity of the

fibre.

The other bands you showed me, which you said were seen

without a slit, belong, feel almost sure, to the source of light, and
it

      I
                     I

                                    if
arise from vaporised matter in the arc connecting the poles. They
would, think, disappear sunlight were substituted for the arc

light with which the light from the poles mixed. Or perhaps
                                                                        if
might be possible to get the plate impressed by pole-light alone           it

by arranging a pendulum with a screen containing an aperture,                       is
                                                                                          is
and making the current pass through the pendulum, by means

of mercurial connections so arranged that the current                                           is     either

interrupted or shunted just while the aperture passing the slit.

do not know whether the current would strike across                                             if   merely
I
                  I                                                                                 a
                                                                                                would, of course much
                                                                     *
thus very briefly interrupted. Even

longer exposure would be required. But the substitution of

sunlight for the electric light would show at once whether the

particular bands refer to belong to the source of light, as feel
                                                                                                I

pretty sure they do.

                                                                        But see p. 337, infra.

336 ZIGZAGS IN THE DIFFRACTION BANDS

                                                             3 Dec., 1890.

   I have thought of a verification of the view expressed in
Imy last as to the origin of the finer bands seen in the spectra ;

mean the system which in the photographs you showed me were

nearly perpendicular to the direction of the fibre. It is not a

sharp verification, for it merely involves a proper choice between
two alternatives ; and if you were to toss up for
                          is                                          as likely
                                                      it,

                                                    it

                                                                  is
you would be right as wrong. It this. Let the vertical link nk

denote the direction in which you travel from the image of the

thinner (n) to the thicker (k) end of the fibre, and the horizontal
line rb the direction in which you travel from red to blue. Then

the direction of the bands of the system we are considering should

lie somewhere within the quadrants nb and ki\ not within the

quadrants nr and kb. When the fibre uniform they would be
                          it
parallel to nk, and when
                              is
                                                         is
                          violently tapering they would become

nearly parallel to rb.
                        Thanks for your letter received this morning. It
Dec.
a
                    4.follows from the above that local thickening in the fibre would
                          ;

                               a

                               I

                                                   is
                                                         a
produce a bulge in the bands turned towards the red, not the

blue, end of the spectrum and suppose local thickening, as
                                                                      it
residue of the tendency to form beads, more likely to occur than
                                                                                a
local thinning. Hence we might expect bulges in the bands to

be usually directed towards the red end of the spectrum. Some
of your photographs contain, very likely, evidence on these two
points, the quadrant in which inclined bands lie (provided was

noted or remembered whether top or bottom corresponds to the
image of the thinner portion of the fibre), and the direction of any

bulge.
     Thanks for the reference to Lord Rayleigh's paper.

                                                             5th Dec.

DEAR SIR GEORGE,

                     have some difficulty in seeing how the inclination

of the bands as described by you can be used as evidence as to

their origin.
     In a fibre which gives banded spectrum, no matter what
      I

                                    a
                                                                                                          is

              DUE TO IRREGULARITIES IN THE FIBRES                    337

nil,the cause of the interference, if two parts have the ratio of their
diameters as  and if two wave lengths of light have their
ratios also n:l, and if one happens to be such that it is destroyed,

then the other must be so also, whether the interference is due to

diffraction or to light that has passed through, to polarisation, or to

Iany combination of any of these ; at least think it must be so.

Therefore the bands must be inclined in the direction you suggest

on any theory.

   IAs a matter of fact cannot now tell from the photograph

whether the bands incline the right way or not.

   I have examined the fibres on the frame with a prism by the

electric light to-day; and on the whole I fancy the short, sharp

sudden bands are on the whole towards the red, but the bands are

according to my memory much more irregular than they were at

Ifirst, and this believe to be due to very fine dust, of which there

is a great deal, on the fibres.

    I. have not been able to-day to make a test to see if this is so

for certain.

                                                                                   CAMBRIDGE, 6 Dec., 1890.

   IYou are quite right. Strange to say had not thought of

though am so familiar with seeing, and in teaching to my class,
that in diffraction and interference phenomena the fringes or
other appearances are on larger scale for the red than for the
blue.
is                      a

       I                                                                         it,
          II
                             LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                              November, 1897.
                        it
DEAR MR BOYS,
                                 is
                                        a

                                                         ;
                                                         3

                                                            is,

                                                   a if
                                                         it

                                                     I
              feel ashamed to approach you as a beggar; but there

one thing should like very much to have     would not be

giving you more than trifling trouble that  copy (positive) of

one or two of your photographs showing the effects on the air

of the passage through  of a bullet moving with a velocity

exceeding the velocity of propagation of sound. What chiefly

wished for was one showing the outline, resembling one branch of

a hyperbola, at which there  rapid change of density, as

evidenced by the dark mark indicating the deflection of the rays

s. B. n.                                                         22

338 PHOTOGRAPHS OF FLYING BULLETS

due to refraction across the place of rapidly-changing density, and

one showing the reflection of the wave from the plane wall of a

vessel. Perhaps the same photo would show both things, which

would save you trouble.

There are mathematical difficulties connected with the theory

which have as yet been only very partially mastered. Possibly

an inspection of the photographs might give some hint towards

Ithe way of attacking those difficulties *.
        am lecturing at present on sound, and one of my class asked

me a question about the theory of your results. This has induced

me to pocket my shyness about asking you for what may involve

a little trouble, though I see no reason why it should involve

much.
I send you my Wilde Lecture, and two earlier papers on the
Isame subject, marked 1, 2, 3 in order of date.
                                                      have not yet

distributed them as my time was otherwise occupied.

                         Yours very faithfully,

                         G. G. STOKES.

                         27, THE GROVE, BOLTONS, S.W.,

DEAR SIR GEORGE,         24th Nov., '97.

       I regret that there should have been more delay on my

return in consequence of my having to get the enclosed prints.

These four fairly well show the most conspicuous features,

1. Shows a Magazine Rifle bullet speed about 2100 ft./sec.,

photographed just before meeting the head wire. The little

spark which jumped out to meet the wire from the bullet appears

as a black line on account of its being a cylindrical diverging

lens. The form of the head wave above is clearly seen, being in

this photograph free from splash from the head wire.

The reflection and non-reflection of the waves at different

     * The only account published of these experiments is the illustrated Report in
Nature, vol. XLVII. pp. 415421, 440 446, of Mr Boys' lecture at the British
Association, Edinburgh Meeting, 1892. This description of his results forestalls

much of Prof. Stokes' remarks, and includes many additional points of interest on
other photographs ; it also describes arrangements previously employed by Mach,
Lord Rayleigh, Jervis- Smith, and others, for spark photography.

     Negatives for the six illustrations here reproduced have been kindly supplied by

Messrs Newton and Co., who own the copyright.

            AND THEIR ASSOCIATED AIR-WAVES                          339

angles from metallic plates is also seen. Also the diffraction
phenomenon on the reflected and the direct wave in the lower
right-hand corner.

     2. Shows the same kind of bullet piercing a sheet of glass.
Also particles of card from a sheet which had been pierced,
following the bullet, those which are going 1100 ft./sec. or more
with waves of suitable angle, those less, without.

     3. Is a Martini Henry bullet 1250 ft./sec. about between
reflecting plates showing form of air wave when incidence is
sufficiently grazing to give no reflection.

    4. Is a badly fogged plate of an aluminium bullet about
3000 ft./sec. which also had pierced a sheet of card. Particles
of card with waves of appropriate angle. Head wave distorted
near head by concussion of bullet striking forward wire.

    If anything further will be useful pray let me know.

                                             Yours very sincerely,

                                                                  C. V. BOYS.

                                  LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                    26 Nov., 1897.

I am extremely obliged to you for the photographs. They

are to me most interesting, as they bear on the theory of a

sound-bore, a theory which hitherto has been only imperfectly

developed.
   I found the photographs on my return from London a little
I Ibefore seven yesterday evening; but had to dress, as had friends
coming to dine with me in [college] hall, so that I had not time to
Istudy the photographs last night. To-day had a lecture, only
Ithree men were present.
                                  showed them your photographs and

letter, and pointed out some of the inferences from the photographs.

I found that one of my class had assisted you in taking the

photographs.
     As your photographs are numbered for me, to correspond with

your letter, and you probably may not recollect to what photo-
graphs these provisional numbers refer,! will briefly describe them

ibr the sake of identification :

No. 1. Magazine rifle bullet, vel. about 2100.

No. 2. Same kind of bullet piercing glass.

                                                222

340 OPTICAL ANALYSIS OF FRONT OF SOUND-BORE

No. 3. Martini Henry, vel. 1250, between reflecting plates.
No. 4*. Aluminium bullet, vel. 3000.

You are doubtless familiar with the bright band (bright in

the positive) on one side of the dark, and most likely have

fnoticed the law which determines at which side, namely, that

the bright is always in the rear of the dark, "rear" referring to the
direction of travelling of the wave, not the direction of motion

of the bullet. This is in accord with theory, which shows that

the rapid change of density indicated by the curve is such that

you pass from the higher to the lower density as you travel across
the bore in the direction of propagation of the wave. The bore

forms a surface of revolution, supposing everything symmetrical
about the axis, as it is at least very approximately; and a section

of this by a plane perpendicular to the axis gives, at the bore,

an annulus of small thickness in crossing which the rapid change

of density takes place. From the source of light, draw a tangent

to a circle belonging to the annulus where the change of density
is very rapid. Imagine rays of light to be incident nearly in the

direction of that tangent. Then if about the critical circle the

density be diminishing as you proceed from the centre outwards,
the refraction will take place as it were through a very blunt

prism slightly denser than the surrounding medium, and the
Ifrefraction will be inwards.
                               on the other hand the density be

increasing as you go outwards, the refraction will be outwards.
The rule will be the same in both cases : the refraction will be

towards the side of greater density. Hence the photographs show

at once which side of the bore is that of greater and which of

smaller density.

Take now No. 1, which shows bores proceeding from the front

and from the rear of the bullet. The photo shows that in both

cases in crossing the bore in the direction from the axis outwards

the density is decreasing. But the density a little outside the

outer and inside the inner bore must be, nearly at least, the

atmospheric density. Therefore the outer bore lies in the front

part of a condensing wave, and the inner bore in the rear part of

a rarefying wave.

Besides the more obvious features, No. 1 shows the character

of a bore that has passed the edge of an opaque screen. For in

* Not here reproduced.

f On this and other points, see report of Brit. Assoc. lecture, loc. cit.

DIFFRACTION OF A BORE ROUND AN OBSTACLE  341

the rear reflected bore if we suppose a perpendicular let fall from

the end of the wall on the straight part supposed produced, as the

outline has begun to be slightly curved before the foot of the
perpendicular is reached, we may in imagination replace the re-

flected bore by a straight bore passing along a clear space (the
place of the mirror) and obstructed by a screen placed in the clear
space where the actual wall has ended. We see the way in which
the bore curves round the edge of the (ideal) screen, dwindling

away as it gets further from the normal to the plane bore (or rather
rectilinear bore, as the thing is seen in section), until it becomes

insensible.

     No. 1 shows at the top (this feature is of course obvious) the

obliteration, or partial obliteration, of one bore by another. It is

here the main front bore that is obliterated by the bore from the

struck wire.

    A bore is of course a surface, and if everything be perfectly

regular the surface will be one of revolution about the axis of the

bullet. Regard the electric flash as a point of light. It is only

where a ray of light falls tangential to this surface or nearly so
that it will be sensibly deflected from its course, so as to eave

342 CONICAL FKONT OF SOUND-BORE

(in the positive) a dark spot in the place in the photographic plate

on which it would otherwise have fallen. Hence if we make the

flash, regarded as a point, the vertex of a conical surface touching
the surface which represents the bore, the curve (plane curve or

curve of double curvature as the case may be) which is the locus
of the points of contact is the only part of the bore which will show

in the photograph ; and the intersection of this conical surface

with the photographic plate will give the dark (in the positive)
trace of the bore.

   If the bore be one sheet of a hyperboloid of two sheets, the

locus of the points of contact will be a plane curve, in fact the

Ihyperbola (one branch of it) in which the hyperboloidal sheet
is cut by the plane polar to the vertex of the cone.  should have

left out the words in parentheses, since the second branch of the

hyperbola would be the section of the other sheet of the hyper-

boloid, with which, by hypothesis, we are not concerned. Our

BORES FORMED BY DIVERGING FRAGMENTS  343

enveloping conical surface will be an elliptic cone (i.e. a quadric

cone) and its intersection by the photographic plate will be one

branch of a hyperbola.

The intersection of the two bores (the front reflected and rear
Idirect) near the hook in No. 1 shows some minute features which
   have not discussed.
I INo. 2.
don't know that have anything to add to yours.

I notice that in some of the bores produced by bits of card the

line of symmetry of the bore is a little inclined to the axis, or line
of fire. The small inclination is to the right or left according
as the bit is to the right or left of the axis, indicating that the bit
was moving, not quite parallel to the axis, but in a direction

344 CROSSTNG AND COALESCENCE OF SOUND-BORES

deviating a little from that, to the right or left according to the
position of the bit. This was to have been expected.

   INo. 3. The bore ahead is very strong. This may be due in

part to the confinement, but think it is due in good measure to
the fact that in this case the velocity of the bullet did not greatly
exceed that of sound. To judge by some of the bores due to bits

of card, this would seem to be favourable to strong bores imme-

diately ahead.                                   Icopper walls got
                                                      seem to have
    I do not know how the bores outside the

there, unless it be by some sort of reflection.

a sort of recollection that in one of your lectures you mentioned

some markings on the plate as being due merely to some re-

flection.

No. 4. This shows specially well one particular feature. The

furthest forward of the bits of card produces a bore which does

not cross, but coalesces with, the main front bore from the bullet.
The bore from the bit travels, in the direction of the axis, a good
deal more slowly than the bore from the bullet. After the

coalescence, we have a portion of straight bore somewhat more

inclined to the axis than that the main bore was before.

     The crossing of two bore traces without apparent influence of
the bores on one another does not of itself alone prove that bores
do not influence each other. For the ray corresponding to the
intersection of the bore-traces may have touched the two bore

surfaces at points which do not coincide, but merely happen to
lie in the same straight line drawn through the vertex, so that the
parts of the two bores for which a record is obtained may be in

different places.

   IIn conclusion, wish to thank you again for these very inter-

esting photographs.  Yours very truly,

Finished Nov. 27.    G. G. STOKES.

                                                                                                       29 Nov., 1897.

   ISince writing to you noticed an interesting feature in No. 1,
Iwhich had either overlooked or passed by as a thing too minute

to attend to. But with a slight variation in the mode of

observation it becomes very distinct. It relates to the inter-

section of the front reflected and rear direct bores in No. 1, near

the hook.

REAR BOUNDARY OF THE DISTURBED AIR                 345

     You probably may have noticed a small change of direction in
the front reflected bore after its encounter with the rear direct.

On viewing the photo at a very high angle of incidence, the plane

of incidence containing the front reflected bore, the change of

inclination of the front reflected caused by the action on it of the

rear direct is rendered very evident by the foreshortening. The
direction is rendered a little more nearly parallel to the axis,
indicating a slightly increased velocity of propagation. This may
very likely be due to its travelling in air which is rushing forwards

after the bullet. If this be the cause, as seems likely, it points to

the rear bore as the boundary of the portion of air which is

rushing after the bullet.

                                                                                                          1 Dec., 1897.

   I am a little afraid that my letters about sound-bores may be

a bore to you. Still, some attention to a child of your own may

Inot be displeasing to you.
         have reflected a good deal on what the photographs show,
and have also made some measurements with a view to obtaining
numerical results. Nos. 1, 2 and 4 show the front and rear bores,
which tend to become straight as you go further from the bullet.

Inclination                        Velocity

No.                   rear  front            rear
               front

1 34                  29    1174             1019
2 361                       1249             1002
4 32                  28i   1590             1386

                      27^

I laid tracing cloth on the photos, and drew on it straight lines

coinciding with what appeared to be the best straight parts of the
bores, continuing those straight lines onwards till they met, and
measured the enclosed angles with a small protractor. The halves

of these angles were taken as the inclination of the bore to the

axis, from whence I calculated the velocity of propagation of the

bores by multiplying the figures you gave me for the velocities of

346 VELOCITY OF PROPAGATION OF SOUND-BORE

the bullets by the sine of the inclination. Here are the results,
the inclinations being given in degrees, and the velocities in feet

per second.
     Although the theory of bores has not yet been made out,

except at the first moment of their formation, yet I think we may

say from theory that at a distance from the bullet the bores
would be straight, and propagated with the velocity of sound,
and therefore the front and rear bores would be parallel to
each other. This limiting condition does not seem to have
been quite attained within the limit of the pictures. They show
the front and rear still slightly inclined to each other, and the
curvature, especially in the front bores, not yet to have quite

disappeared.
     The bores for the aluminium bullet came out to have a

velocity of propagation considerably greater than that of sound.

It may be that the assumed velocity of the bullet (3000) is too

high. In any case the velocity of propagation of the front bore
would vary from that of the bullet, just at the head of the bore,

Ito what think must be the velocity of sound at a distance.
   IIn No. 3 at first misinterpreted the strong bore just behind

the fuzzy thing, at a distance 63 inch in front of the flat end of

the bullet. I thought at first that it was due to the tendency

Ifor the plate to leave a partial vacuum behind it when it was first

pushed out by the bullet striking it. But saw afterwards that it

Imust be the reflection of the front bore from the glass plate;
   mean hydrodynamical not optical reflection.

Omitted to enclose, in haste to catch the post.  4/12/97.

The figure is intended to show the supposed general features

of the curve of density in a section taken across the front and

  Aim.
Density

             \                                       s

         Rear                                    Front
                                                  lore
          bore

rear bores at some distance behind the bullet. The arrows are

intended to mark the direction of propagation of the bores. The
velocity of propagation of a bore probably exceeds that of sound,
and exceeds it the more the greater be the bore. The bore
probably wastes away by a continual propagation of a disturbance

LEAVES A TRAIL WHEN RAPIDLY ADVANCING                                             347

backwards. In a free bore, that
a
                            it,

                                                     is,
                                                                              is
                                               one not kept up by the

push of bullet behind              but abandoned to its own propagation,

the waste probably gets less and less as the bore                                 reduced

in magnitude, so that a bore has great longevity. The velocity

of propagation probably continually approximates to that of sound

under ordinary circumstances as the bore gets smaller and smaller.

                                                            Dec., 1897.
                                               of
Suppose you have an infinite mass of air at rest, the whole
                                                                      6
having uniform density, except a spherical portion, of radius R,
a                                                                   , is

                          is
in which the density               a little greater, and now imagine the

whole left to itself. As you might expect, an annulus of

disturbance will travel outwards with the velocity of sound.

But what will be the thickness of the annulus, and what the

state of the air in                At first sight you might suppose that
                it
we should have an annulus of disturbance travelling outwardsit

                                ?
with the velocity of sound, the thickness of the annulus being R,

and the air in       slightly condensed. In reality, we have an

outward-travelling annulus of which the thickness                                 *2R, the

outward half, of breadth R, having condensation, and the inner

                     Curve of Density          -^ Distanfi from
                                                                 axis

                                   ^Direction  propagation

                Refraction                     Refraction
                 this ivay                       this ivay

half, of breadth R, having rarefaction. This holds good for all
values of the time for which at greater than R, a being the
is
                  t
                                          is

                                                it is

                                                                                               ;

                                                                   is

                                                                it :

                                                                                   is
                                                                                           is
velocity of sound. What happens after starting this the air

in the sphere expands, and acquires an outward velocity, except

just at the centre, where the velocity         nil throughout. The

expanding air by its inertia tends to retain its outward motion,

and to create a partial vacuum behind          and thus                           that

we get rarefaction in the rear of the condensation.

This analogous to what takes place in your air which

348 A PULSE HAS CONDENSED AND RAREFIED PARTS

pushed out by the bullet. The air is condensed by the bullet,
and also moved outwards ; and as the air pushed outwards tends
by its inertia to preserve its outward motion, it produced rare-
faction in its rear ; and the interior air moves outwards to fill up
the partial vacuum, and thus we have a bore formed in the
rarefied air, beginning with slight rarefaction, and increasing, as
at a given moment we travel outwards, then increasing with
great rapidity, and then rapidly changing to greater rarefaction,
suddenly changing into a slowly-changing rarefaction which
gradually passes into a condensation.

                  27, THE GROVE, BOLTONS, S.W.,
                                  I8tk Dec., '97.

DEAR SIR GEORGE,

           IMany thanks, for the postscript especially of your last

letter, which explains what have quite failed to understand

I Iwithout help.                                    promised, the
         am sending now the three more prints that

delay being due in main to the dull weather.

     No. 5 corresponds to No. 2 but the bullet has now travelled

about 5 inches past the plate. It has not however yet emerged

Ifrom the cloud of dust and broken glass, as expected it would.

This is remarkable for the strong air wave due to the whole mass

of moving lead and glass, and it shows also subsidiary waves due

to odd particles.

    In this the glass plate has become entirely broken. In the

Iprevious one with the bullet half through (not only just entering),

which think you have, the ripple of disturbance is still travelling

in the glass and so it must at that time be still whole. The fact

of this movement is made evident by the inclined air waves on

Ieither side of the plate with alternate light and dark exteriors,

which believe to be due to the first movements of the glass
being alternately in opposite directions. This is consistent with

the fact that an outer dark shade on one side of the plate is

opposite an outer light shade on the other side of the plate.

No. 6. This shows the same event as No. 5, still later, when

the bullet has travelled about 15 inches from the plate. Here the

middle piece punched out by the bullet is travelling just above it

Iand expect the two systems of waves merge into one distorted

hyperboloid with two noses and a transverse groove between.

RING-SHADOW PROPAGATED FROM AN EXPLOSION                                   349

This is the photograph which also shows the uniting of two

waves so well in the upper part of the plate.

No. 7. This is the ordinary bullet going at the ordinary

speed, but the atmosphere in the box was C0 2 saturated with

the vapour of ether which is very heavy. The CO 2 prevented
it from igniting and so risking things generally.

   IIn connection with these solitary waves or bores did you see a

letter sent to Nature in the summer of this year under the

heading "On the Visibility of the Shadow of a Sound Wave"?
I can't now give the date but it could be found at once in the
If Iindex*.
             you did not see it think the observation there

described is one that would interest you.

                                 Yours very truly,
                                             C. V. BOYS.

    * Nature, vol. LVI. p. 173 (June 4, 1897). The following extracts contain the
main points :

   ITwo months ago received the following letter from Mr E. J. Eyves.
   I"On Tuesday, April 6, had occasion, while carrying out some experiments

with explosives, to detonate 100 Ibs. of a nitro-compound. The explosive was

placed on the ground in the centre of a slight depression, and, in order to view the

Ieffect, stationed myself at a distance of about 300 yards on the side of a neigh-

bouring hill. The detonation was complete, and a hole was made in the ground

5 feet deep and 7 feet in diameter. A most interesting observation was made

during the experiment.
" The sun was shining brightly, and at the moment of detonation the shadow of
Ithe sound wave was most distinctly seen leaving the area of disturbance.
                                                                           heard
Ithe explosion as the shadow passed me, and could follow it distinctly in its course
Idown the valley for at least half a mile : it was so plainly visible, that believe it

would have photographed well with a suitable shutter."

    At the time of the explosion my whole attention was concentrated upon the

Icamera, and for the moment I had forgotten to look for the " Ryves ring," as

think it might be called ; but it was so conspicuous that it forced itself upon my
Iattention.
             felt rather than heard the explosion at the moment that it passed.

We stationed ourselves as near as prudence would allow at a distance of 120 yards,

so that only about one-third of a second elapsed between the detonation and the

passage of the shadow ; but the precision of observation of coincidence when very

rapid movement occurs is so great, that I am quite satisfied that the observation

was correct. The actual appearance of the ring was that of a strong black circular

line, opening out with terrific speed from the point of explosion as a centre. It is

impossible to judge of the thickness of the black shadow ; it may have been 3 feet,

or it may have been more at first, and have gradually become less in thickness or,

possibly, in depth of shade....

Now, in the case of a hemispherical explosive wave it is clear that the sunlight

can only be tangential over a semicircle, and that the shadow of such a wave should be

a semi-ellipse, the eccentricity of which would depend upon the altitude of the sun.

350 INFLUENCE OF SPEED ON INTENSITY OF SOUND-BORE

                           LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                           22 Dec., 1897.

DEAR MR BOYS,

I am much obliged to you for the additional photo-
Igraphs, which show further features of interest.
                                                    should have
Iwritten to you before only that wanted to see your article on
Ithe visibility of a sound shadow before replying.
                                                    felt sure the

number of Nature was in the house, for Mrs Robinson, Lady

Stokes's step-mother, who is living here, takes it in. But she is

very old (92f ) and is ill, in all probability not far from her end, so

Ithat I could not get it.  looked yesterday in the University

Library, which closed yesterday for"" a few days, but the volume

Iwas not on the shelf; probably it was with the binder, or stored
by for binding.  tried also the Library of the Philosophical
I ISociety, but the attendant was away on holiday, and
                                                          could
not find it. So got a copy of the number to-day. I have
Iread it with great interest, but will take the photographs first.

AMALGAMATION OF TWO BORES INTO ONE  351

   IIn No. 5 think that the great magnitude (or rather intensity)

of the bore, while due in part to the glass which accompanies the

bullet, is partly also due to the reduction of the velocity of the
bullet by passing through the glass. For it seemed to me on
comparing other cases of bores that a velocity of the projectile

not greatly exceeding that of sound produced a bore which gave a

stronger impression on the photographic plate than when the
velocity of the projectile greatly exceeded that of sound.

     No. 6 giv^s, as you mentioned, a capital example of two bores

352 PHENOMENA OF CROSSING OF SOUND-BORES

moderately inclined to each other, and travelling in the same

direction, which coalesce on meeting, forming a single stronger

bore after meeting. The direction of the latter is intermediate

between those of the two former.

   IThe example mentioned before is in No. 1, about 2*05 in.

to the right of and 2*4 in. below the middle of the base of the
Ibullet.
          suppose the photos held so that the direction of motion

of the bullet is upwards. There is a good example in No. 2,

about 2'9 to the right and 2 below. When two bores travelling

in the same direction are too much inclined to one another to

coalesce, their mutual inclination appears to be less after crossing

than before. There seems to be an example of this in No. 2,

about 2 to the right and 1 below. In No. 1 on the contrary,
where bores travelling in opposite directions cross, the mutual
inclination is slightly increased after crossing.

                THE PROGRESS OF AN EXPLOSION

    I had heard you in a lecture explain the waves in No. 2 due to

the motion of the glass when struck by the bullet but not yet broken.
     No. 6 shows also the mutual destruction of bores travelling in

opposite directions. The hyperboloidal bores would meet at first

below, and if they had not destroyed each other in good measure

they ought to continue to be seen. For the rays falling tan-
gentially on the one would pierce the other at an angle by no
means small, and therefore might be expected to continue to show

themselves.

   I think the mutual destruction on crossing would partly

depend on the magnitude of the disturbance. If, caeteris paribus,
the disturbance was but small, we should expect them to cross.

But these bores would be strong when they first met.

No. 7 is very interesting in connection with the gases used.
INow for your very interesting paper.
                                       think you have gone

in the right direction for explaining the completeness of the ring.
I IBut should be disposed slightly to modify the ideas.
                                                         think

there is highly condensed gas projected upwards with a very high

velocity. It tends to expand ; but having already got some way

up it is able to expand in all directions. To take the extreme

limit of what the condition is slightly tending towards, suppose

you had a shell containing highly condensed gas, which after it

had got a little way up exploded. It would produce a spherical

wave which would cast a shadow, the intersection of which with

the ground, supposed horizontal, would be an ellipse. If the

altitude of the sun were 45 deg. the ratio of the axes of the
Iellipse would be about 7 to 10.
                                  should not think that in

such a rapid phenomenon you could well detect its difference

from a circle.

                Yours very truly,

                                  G. G. STOKES.

                                              25 Dec., 1897.

The animated photograph you were so kind as to send me

arrived by the morning's post (the only one to-day) and so came

Ias a most acceptable Christmas gift. It is very interesting.
         did not at first see the interpretation of the rays which are
seen, especially about the middle of the series, emanating from
the place of the explosion. They are doubtless trails of stones

or earth moving with extremely high velocity, and illuminated by

s. B. ii.                                                23

354 DEPENDENCE OF AIR-BORE ON VELOCITY OF BULLET

the sun. As the camera was probably in a somewhat elevated

position, and pointed downwards, the background on which the

rays are seen was probably grass, which accounts for the stones

&c. being more luminous than the background.

   I am not sure whether the luminosity in the first 3 or 4

is to be attributed to the flame, or to the illumination of the

smoke by the sun. In the first 3 it may be due, or partly due,

to the illumination of the smoke. After the fourth it seems to

Ibe due wholly to illumination by the sun.           threw out that
     The photographs are favourable to the view

the highly condensed gas is projected upwards and gets some
distance before it has had time to expand, and that that accounts

for the dark ring being complete all the way round.

                           27, THE GROVE, BOLTONS, S.W.,

DEAR SIR GEORGE,           I have          23rd Dec., 1897.
            As is evident          followed your example and

bought a type-writer.
I must thank you for your further aid in the matter of
Iunderstanding my bullet photographs.
Inow.                                  have but little to say

       am so sorry that you should have had so much trouble
Iin raising that copy of Nature: if had thought this would
Ihave been the case would of course have got one and sent it

myself. The conclusion that you have come to that a bullet

travelling more slowly [makes a greater bore] so long as it is

Imore than 1100 ft./sec. is hardly consistent with a good many

photographs that have taken. The bore in front of a Martini

bullet, even though the bullet is larger, is much less conspicuous
than that in front of a magazine rifle bullet. The aluminium

bullet has a more conspicuous bore, bearing in mind the fogging

Iof the plate.                                          enclose

    In further elucidation of the explosion experiment

a print of the animatograph film. You will see first the quick-

match burning at about a hundred feet a second in three of the

pictures, before the box containing the explosive is reached.

Then the sudden burst is by no means uniform or symmetrically

distributed. Certainly this is the case with regard to visible
matter. That curiously violent projection along the ground to

the left was very evident in its effect upon the grass. The other

EFFECT OF PRESSURE ON COMBUSTION OF EXPLOSIVES 355

local rushes of gas were also very clearly marked by torn-up grass

and streaks of stones and dust. These are really rushing out

Ifmore rapidly than the vertical column is ascending.

          this ocular evidence is worth anything at all it would tell

against the suggestion in your letter of vertical projection and in

effect radiation from a point in mid -air.

   I believe the cause of the want of symmetry in such an

explosion as this is to be found in the very unstable behaviour

of the nitro-explosives. Thus, the rate of burning depends very

largely upon the pressure, so much so that they will not keep

alight in a moderate vacuum ; at atmospheric pressure they burn

feebly, but as the pressure rises the rate of burning rapidly

increases, and so the production of gas and the rise of pressure

is also increased, reacting on the rate of burning. So where the

combustion starts most rapidly, there and in that direction it

most rapidly becomes an explosion and a detonation.

There seems to be fair evidence of this kind of thing, which

they please to call wave action, in the bores of guns.

     The effect of pressure on the rate of burning of time fuses is
well known and is allowed for at high altitudes. An R.A. officer

told me that my photographs had been useful in explaining an

anomalous rate of burning, where the exit of the time fuse gases

was where he judged from the photographs the highest pressure

should be, and that on putting it outside the pressure region the

rate became normal.

                     Yours very sincerely,

                     C. V. BOYS.

                     LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                     27 Dec., 1897.

     DEAR MR BOYS,

           IYour " enclosure " reached me on Christmas Day, but

the letter itself not till Sunday. Hence when wrote I had only

Iseen the photograph, not the explanation. The explanation
cleared up some things that had puzzled me.             had taken the

light in the first three to be the commencement of the explosion,

and as a dark cubical thing was evidently beyond the base of the

Ilight, took it for something casually on the ground. I think
I should have guessed that the explosion had been made by

electricity. It certainly puzzled me why in No. 4 there should

have been so rapid a change in the phase of the explosion.

                                                        232

356 PROJECTION DISTINGUISHED FROM WAVE-TRANSFER

      We must distinguish between the outrush of gas resulting

from the chemical changes and the outrush of elastic fluid, gas

or air as the case might be. The photograph would show the
former, but only that portion of the latter which was due to gas,
the portion due to air remaining invisible in the photograph.
The photo shows that the explosive was fired at the base
of the box. Hence at the first moment of the explosion the

explosive would be confined by the ground below and the
explosive above, and there is a horizontal outrush of gas ex-
tending far out. The bulk of the explosive, whether in its
original state or in the state of highly compressed gas formed

by the chemical change that had taken place on the original,

would be violently projected upwards, and would very soon

consist of gas only. In expanding, this would condense and

move outwards the air around it. But being no longer confined
as at first, it would expand in all directions, and the gas would
therefore not extend near so far from its original place as it
did at the base. There would be a great outrush of condensed
air outside the place of the gas, but this would not show in the

photograph.

     Suppose we had a sphere of gas in still air, the gas being
condensed to 729 times the density it would have at atmospheric

pressure. Suppose now the gas left to itself. It would expand

and drive outwards the air outside it. But when the expansion

was over and the gas in its natural state, it would fill a sphere

only 9 times the original in radius. And if (from smoke mixed
with it) the gas were visible it would not be seen to have gone
near so far from where it had been as if it had been confined, say

Iin a cannon, and so allowed to escape, with a rush, in one direction
only.  think the bulk of the charge in the Maxim experiment

was somewhat in the condition of the sphere of compressed gas
in the above illustration.

    What I took for photographic trails of rapidly moving stones

or gravel in sunshine seem too persistent for such an explanation.

They may have been smoke left by projected bits of the explosive

which burnt as they travelled. If this were the explanation, they

should have been visible to the eye.

                                      Yours very truly,

                                      G. G. STOKES.

UPWARD PROJECTION OF EXPLOSIVE MATTER                                            357

                                                          27 Dec., 1897.

     The fact that the upright column of smoke is not wider than
it shows, think, that the ignition of the material or the
is,

                       1

                                                        I

                                                          I
expansion of the gas did not take place sensibly in one spot, but

successively as the material was shot upwards.

The two thicker rays especially are very persistent.          doubted

all along on this account whether they could be trails, but
thought they might be trails of gravel shot out in succession
in certain definite directions. You having seen the thing will
probably be able to say what the rays are, whether the two most

conspicuous ones or the numerous very fine ones well shown about

the middle of the series.

                           LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                        20 March, 1900.

DEAR MR BOYS,

Professor Turner tells me you got no indication of

radiation of heat from the dark part of the moon. This can
                           a

                                                             I

                                                                                                  a
quite understand for the crust being probably rock, accordingly
is
    arather bad conductor, riot good conductor like metal, the surface

       if ;would pretty rapidly cool by radiation.

    A lunar eclipse would give a far better opportunity of trying,

as the dark part of the moon would be caught shortly after had
                                                              it
                                                                    it
been exposed to full SLID shine. You may perhaps have tried

already, though you have do not recollect that came beforeit

me. Lord Rosse (Phil. Trans, for 1873, 619) mentions trial,
but the circumstances were unfavourable, and besides he examined
                           I                                  a

                                 I
                                                      p.
the moon as whole, whereas you, think, can work with quite a

small portion.

There but one lunar eclipse this year, and that only just an

eclipse as regards the umbra. The middle of the eclipse about
                           if
                                                       it

                                                                   is
                                                                             is
3.30 a.m. on June 13. At first sight the smallness of the eclipse

seems disheartening. Yet in one respect                       a positive

advantage. Of course in so small an eclipse we could only work

with the penumbra. Now we take two points on the moon's

surface situated symmetrically with respect to the plane SME (the

plane passing through the centres of the sun, moon and earth) for
one the shadow would be advancing and for the other passing off.

Hence one would have been longer under partial shelter from the

sun's rays than the other, and therefore we might expect the

358 VALUE OF ECLIPSES FOR OBSERVING LUNAR RADIATION

former to emit less heat than the other, while as regards reflection
the two would be alike. Had the eclipse been going to be total,

the exposure at two symmetrically situated points would have

been the same. Hence the eclipse of June 13 lends itself specially

well for an investigation of want of symmetry in the heat coming
from pairs of points symmetrically situated with reference to the
plane SME. And the observation has the great advantage of

being almost strictly differential, except as regards a possible

difference of character of different patches of the moon's surface.

   If Iyou have already made observations on the eclipsed moon

should be glad to know where the results are to be found. Yours

very truly,  G. G. STOKES.

                                                                                         23 March, 1900.

   IWhen said that the lunar eclipse of June 13 was specially

favourable for an endeavour to obtain evidence of the heat of

Ithe moon, forgot one thing. In working with the penumbra

we are tied down by having to compare points equidistant
from the shadow, and in a grazing eclipse, like that of June 13,
the most favourable choice is to take a pair of points sym-

metrically situated on opposite sides of the line of symmetry

Iof the shadow. Now forgot that in working on the umbra we

are set free from the restriction of being obliged to compare two
points at equal distances from the edge of the shadow, because we

have no reflected heat to contend with, and we may choose the
points where we please, and take them so that the line joining
them shall be, at least roughly, parallel to the path of the shadow
relatively to the moon. This would give us the greatest difference
in the lengths of time during which the two points have re-
spectively been in shade. So probably after all the small eclipse

I Iof June 13 would not be so good as a bigger one.
         suppose may assume that you contemplate working with a

reflecting telescope if you mean to attempt the observation on
June 13. A refractor would be almost useless, as nearly the whole

of the heat emanating from the moon would be stopped by the
glass. Working with a reflector, Lord Rosse found that only
8 or 10 per cent, of the total heat from the moon was able to get
through glass, even a fairly thin piece of plate glass ; and as the

EADIATION FROM FULL MOON UNIFORM                                   359

total included the reflected heat, which might be expected to get
through glass in much the same proportion as solar heat, the
emitted heat from the moon would probably be almost wholly

stopped.

                  66, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER,         S.W.,
                                         26*A March, 1900.

DEAR SIR GEORGE,

                   My experiments in the heat or radiation reaching us

from the moon were made with a 16-inch reflector stopped down

to 6 inches. With a 12-inch stop, and using about, as far as

I remember, ^ part of the moon's visible surface, the radiation

drove the instrument at once right off the scale.

   II did not examine an eclipsed moon, as during the time that

had my apparatus set up there was either no eclipse or if there

Iwas one could not arrange to observe it.
    I did observe the curves of radiation, which are in my Roy.

Soc. paper of about 1890, by allowing the image to pass over

the small sensitive surface and taking at equal intervals of time,

Iduring the two minutes or so, the reading. These found to be, so

far as the method was capable of showing, perfectly symmetrical
in the case of a full moon, but to show the maximum as we should
expect at the part of the moon when the sun would be in the
zenith, e.g. at the limb in the case of a half moon.

     The perfect symmetry in the case of a full moon surprised me
at first, because in that case one side is exposed to a rising sun

after a fortnight's night while the other is exposed to a setting sun
of equal altitude after nearly a fortnight's baking. Of course the
very free radiation and low conductivity account for this.

      The eclipsed moon is of course much better on account of the
more rapid change of sun's radiation, and the observation would be

worth making. I do not know whether F. W. Very at Alleghany

Ihas done anything of the kind.
    I do not yet know if can go to Algiers to observe the

corona at the total eclipse. The astronomers want me to do
so. Dr Common would let me have a mirror equatorially

mounted, 20 inches diameter and only 45 inches focal length.

IThis would give a far hotter image of anything than that which

obtained with the 16-inch mirror of Dr Huggins, which was about
60 inches focus, and so might be more suitable if the corona only
radiates little heat.

360  THERMAL RADIATION OF SOLAR CORONA

     IMy chief difficulty will be to know what part of the image is
on the instrument.  have not yet gone into these details.
     If the corona only radiates one 100th of the heat compared

with the light of the full moon, a radio-micrometer made some-

what insensitive so as to be very quick should give with such

an image good deflections, of which several should be observable

If Iin the one minute of the eclipse.
            can get this in good order and conveniently workable, the

same arrangement might be used on the moon at the succeeding

eclipse.

   If all this should work out so as to be possible, and the

astronomer at Algiers will allow me to use the observatory for so
long, it might be worth while to remain the fortnight and take
such observations of the moon on intermediate days as are

possible.
     The greatest difficulty here is the mounting of the radio-

micrometer, which must be, with an equatorial mounting, carried
on a separate column at the right position and height to catch the
image, and the axis of the rays must be sent into it always

horizontally.
     But all is very much in the clouds at present.

                    Yours sincerely,

                    C. V. BOYS.

                                                                                          30 March, 1900.

      DEAR PROFESSOR BOYS,

              I made some calculations relative to the radiant heat

received from the moon. In the changes corresponding to phase,

you found no sensible heat emission due to previous roasting,
which as you notice is natural enough, as in these slow changes
there would be plenty of time to cool by radiation.

      Supposing for simplicity that the incident radiation is expressed
by the sine or cosine of an angle proportional to the time, it turns

out that the residual effect of roasting varies as the square root of
the frequency. Supposing we rudely assimilate the changes in
a lunar eclipse to a periodic change having its period the l/400th
of a month instead of a month, the residual effect of roasting

might be something comparable with 20 times what there is from

I.change of phase ; and should think it might be detectable in an

eclipse, though if we have only the penumbra to work on we are

LUNAR RADIATION UNIFORM EXCEPT IN ECLIPSE                361

restricted to comparing points equidistant from the shadow, in

order to eliminate the portion due to reflection.

     As to the ordinary conditions, i.e. no eclipse interfering, my
views led me to think that the heat received would depend only

on the lunar zenith distance of the patch observed, i.e. the angle
between a normal to the lunar surface and a line drawn to the

sun, and not on whether the patch were chosen from a dark region

I(one of the so-called seas) or a bright region. Shortly after

Iarrived at this result, seemed to have a sort of glimmering

recollection of having heard it noticed as remarkable that in a

sweep over the surface of the moon it did not seem to matter
Iwhether one observed on a bright or a dark region.
                                                     thought

perhaps it was in your paper giving the result of your experi-
Iments, but on reading it through I don't see it there.
                                                         think
I Iwhat fancied recollected must have been some remark made

viva voce by you after the reading of your paper, which was on

IApril 24, 1890. Whether it is a real or an invented memory,

Icannot feel sure, but seem to have a sort of recollection of your

speaking it.

     What a curious thing memory is ! That a thing like this,

which I had not attended to in the meantime, should have lain

Idormant for 10 years, and then turned up again. As a psycho-
logical curiosity,  should like to know (in case you recollect)

Iwhether you did say anything about it.

    In an eclipsed moon think the state of the surface would

make some difference.

     There would be a good opportunity next year in a total lunar

eclipse in November. For the earlier one in May next year, the
moon does not rise at Greenwich till the umbra has almost

passed off. Yours very truly,

                               G. G. STOKES.

362

  CORRESPONDENCE WITH SIR WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S.

     In reply to a request, made some years ago, for information
regarding his collaboration with Prof. Stokes, Sir William Crookes

promptly sent a privately printed correspondence extending from
Mar. 1876 to April LSTl), relating mainly to the radiometer and the

Thrmitjnf rnmifmrfgn-r^ and also various packets of letters relating
to other subjects. His permission to make use of these documents
has been fully taken advantage of, only such letters and passages
as were of merely temporary interest having been omitted. In spite
of the disclaimer in the letter next following, the reader will
fully appreciate the value and the joint results of this combination
of Sir W. Crookes' unrivalled experimental skill and bold intui-
tion, with the refined theoretical insight of Sir George Stokes.

     MY DEAR LARMOR,                        Oct. 16, 1904.

              In 76 to 79 I was corresponding with Sir G. Stokes

Ifrequently, and as had the greatest difficulty in making out his
Iwriting sent the letters to my printing office and got the head

printer there (who could decipher almost anything) to set them

Iin type. Then after collation and correction so as to get them

correct had a few copies printed off. No one but myself has ever

Iseen them in this form, but now send them to you the second

man of science who sees them.

     These are only a selection ; many of minor importance came
between. But they serve to show the enormous indebtedness I, in

Icommon with most scientific men who corresponded with him,
owe to Stokes.  have not read them for 20 years, and the
Iimpression they leave on my mind is that knew very little of the
Isubjects in question, and if what owe to Stokes is deducted from
Imy work there will be precious little left can claim for my own !
     I Ihave kept religiously every letter
                                            have received from

Stokes, and they all are at your service.

                Believe me, very sincerely yours,

                                   WILLIAM CROOKES.

IDENTIFICATION OF ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRAL LINES 363

                                                                                                 Nov. 1, 1889.

MY DEAR PROFESSOR STOKES,

         I have only just been told of your selection to fill the

presidency of the Royal Society.

Let me offer you rny warmest congratulations on your thus

succeeding to Newton's chair. The pleasure this gives me is,

however, somewhat marred by the thought that we shall lose you

as Secretary, and what a great loss this will be, will come home to
every author of a paper in the Phil. Trans., and to no one more

than to myself.         Believe me, very sincerely yours,

                                         WILLIAM CROOKES.

The correspondence which follows is arranged in order of time.

                                  PEMBROKE COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE,

MY DEAR SIR,                                             March 2, 1856.

                      It is now some months since Mr Spiller gave

me your beautiful photographs of calc.-spar, nitre, and unannealed

Iglass. As he told me he had also a spectrum for me, with a

duplicate which you wished me to mark, delayed thanking you

for the first set of photographs till I should have got the spectrum.

Mr Spiller was however too much occupied for a long time to

Imount the spectrum, so that it was only quite recently that

          it,

              I

                       I
received  or should rather say them, as there are spectra
                                                           2
besides the loose one.    knew the lines at once, having repeatedly:5

viewed them on fluorescent substances.          return you the loosea
                                  isJ
spectrum with the lines marked in continuation of the first part
which you have yourself done correctly. The new map referredII I
to merely drawing have made but not published* of the
is
                 a
                           is

                  aI
lines seen with a complete quartz train.        give also some

measures taken with pair of measuring compasses and dia-
                                                make H the origin
gonal scale in which the unit            inch.

when the contrary not expressed, and measure positively in the

direction of increasing refrangibility.

The following measurements refer to spectrum No.
- F1-24 Fraunhofer,
- 0-60
          G      do.

          0-00 H do.

* Published by Bunsen and Roscoe in Phil. Trans. 1859. See supra, vol. ii. p. 80.

364 PHOTOGRAPHED AND FLUORESCED SPECTRA COMPARED

+ 0-08 k, Stokes,

+ 0-31 to 0-35 I do.

+ 0'46 to 0'63 group ra, Stokes,

+ 0'55 m, Stokes,

+ 0'51 to 0'63 Becquerel's group M,
                      fB/i-res.c,t(/l,fuoeurrelTl'isnesrooufPgNroup
I+4- U0-SO1lLi O*                                                        Snt,oki es  \f
          U0-QVSO  <                                                                     i
                                                                                     )
                   I                                                 w,

n,<S^tok7eserel       l.

                      j

The following measures refer to spectrum No. 1 :

-0-45 G,
+ 072, Stokes,
P+ 0-94 o, Stokes;
                      (?) Becquerel,

+ 1'06 Q Stokes new map, p old map,

+ 125 E Stokes,

+ 1-65&

   In Fig. III. I will measure from T instead of H. T is a

narrow well-defined line with a pair of lines between it and the

group S on the left and a broad line V to its right :

-0-24 to -0-13 groupS,       W.
+ 019 U,

+ 0-30 V,
+ 0'36 edge of photograph,
+ 0'41, about (from memory)

     When the spectrum is sufficiently pure and extended R is seen

to be a group of 4 nearly equidistant lines, resembling the first 4
of the group n. The two more refrangible are blacker than the

two others. S is a group of 3 lines, the middle one dividing the
interval between the extreme ones unequally, in the ratio perhaps
of 3 to 2. The spaces between the lines of the group are somewhat

Idark, which have attempted to represent by shading [omitted].
T is black and well-defined, not broad. U is a double line. The

fluorescent light is copious about U, and Vis seen without the least
difficulty, but W is so excessively faint that it is only by catching

the extreme end of the spectrum on the fluorescent substance,

assuming all the rest of the rays to pass by, and then by looking

away at a dark object (black velvet), and then looking at the

fluorescent light that W is seen just on first looking. It is only

            EARLY DIFFICULTIES OF IDENTIFICATION                         365

during the summer months that this extreme part of the spectrum

can be seen.

   IShould you have any difficulty about the identification shall

have great pleasure in giving you any additional information.

   I received my quartz prisms in August 1852*. There were one
Ior two very fine days towards the end of the month, and was
Iable to see as far as have since seen even in the middle of
Isummer; but have never seen the more highly refrangible lines

in winter.  I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,

                                   G. G. STOKES.

                           20 MORNINGTON EGAD, N.W.
                                      April 9, 1862.

DEAR SIR, Some years ago you were good enough to name

some of the principal lines in the ultra violet portion of the Solar
ISpectrum which had photographed.
    ISince that time have succeeded in obtaining the lines much

Isharper and also to a greater extent than believe they have ever
Ibeen got before, but now
                           meet with the same difficulty of

recognising them owing to the altered appearance which the

increased sharpness communicates to the spectrum. In this

I Idifficulty think you will pardon my again troubling you.

enclose two copies of the ultra violet lines built up from different
negatives as the foci of the lines differ in each, and shall be

Igreatly obliged if you will write on one of them the principal

lines and return it to me. The other will beg your acceptance

of. One difficulty which I have met with is that in different

maps the lines are of different names, and few are sufficiently
detailed to be of service when compared with my photographs.

            Believe me, truly yours,

                     WILLIAM CROOKES.

                           LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                        12 April, 1862.

DEAR SIR, Allow me again to thank you for the very beauti-

ful photograph of the solar spectrum as formed by a quartz prism
Iand lens.
            had little difficulty in recognizing the lines, for it was
Ijust about the degree of purity of the spectrum commonly form

     * Sir W. Crookes states that his own photographs were taken with    this very
train, which he bought from Darker two years later and still possesses.   Cf. Roy.

Soc. Proc. vol. Ixxiv. (1905), p. 526.

366 LIMIT OF SOLAR SPECTRUM

Iwhen wish to look at the lines by means of fluorescence, except
Inear the very end, where from the falling off of the light am

obliged to use a somewhat wider slit, and therefore get the
Ispectrum less pure. Most of the lines
                                         recognize readily, in
Ifact at a glance, for have the spectrum pretty well by heart.
IYou will have seen by the table sent this morning that you
Ihave not gone further by photography than went by fluorescence.

The reason is that we have got to the end of the solar spectrum.

I Istated at an evening lecture gave before the British Associ-
I Iation in 1852 that conceived I had got evidence that had now

arrived at the end of the solar spectrum ; and the only link in the

chain of evidence which was left was shortly after supplied in the

course of preparation for a lecture I gave at the Royal Institution

Iin Feb. 1853. However as photography has an advantage over

fluorescence, namely that faintness, or should rather say, want

of intensity, in the incident rays may be to a certain extent

compensated by length of exposure, it was conceivable that

photography might possibly push the spectrum a little further

Ithan fluorescence. That it could not go much further have

Ilong known, as my friend Kingsley took some photographs

shortly after got my prisms and lens of quartz. The lens was

Imeant for fluorescence, and was rather short-focused for photo-

graphy, but still was able to identify most of the lines.
   II looked at the lines to-day about 1J o'clock I think, and

though the sun has still no great elevation was able to see U
Ireadily, though it was a little faint.
                                         saw light beyond U, but it

hardly extended to V.

    The line you have selected next beyond T is sharper than T,
but if you view the photograph from a little distance such as
a couple of feet with the eyes partially closed, you will see T

much more conspicuous than the sharp line. In viewing the

lines by fluorescence in this part of the spectrum, the slit cannot

well be very narrow, the light beginning to be somewhat faint,

and therefore for purposes of fluorescence T is a better line to

Iselect than the one next beyond.
        happen to have a revise of the plate of Bunsen and Roscoe's

Ipaper which Basire sent me as secretary*. have got the plate in
Ithe volume of the Phil. Trans., so send you the revise with the

lines you have selected marked, beginning with /.

The group $ was at first represented as 3 distinct lines.

* See supra, p. 363.

EARLIEST PHOTOGRAPHED ULTRA-VIOLET SPECTRA               367

I wished Basire to put a little shading between, and he left it out

between the 2nd and 3rd lines, and put it in so strong between the
first and second that it makes them appear like one broad band.

                       I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,

                                                             G. G. STOKES.

   IP.S. As far as Q ( =p) inclusive the map in the Phil. Trans.

for 1852 is better than the one send.

                                                                            12 July, 1862.

I have had a good deal of correspon4ence with Mr Crookes on

the subject of the photography of the solar spectrum, and have

received from him some most admirable photographs of the

spectrum, including that part which it requires quartz apparatus

to show. Except as to some photographs taken by my friend

IMr Kingsley with my apparatus, which have never been mentioned

in print, Mr Crookes was believe the first to apply photography

to the investigation of the new region of the spectrum shown by

a quartz prism, and to the delineation of its fixed lines. By

studying photographs of the spectrum taken under a variety of

circumstances, he arrived independently at conclusions respecting

the influence of the Earth's atmosphere on the more refrangible

rays agreeing with those which I obtained myself by working

in a totally different manner.

   IAs evidence of the ingenuity which Mr Crookes brings to bear

on the most recent advances of science, may refer to his beauti-

ful and instructive experiment in which a candle-flame containing

soda is seen surrounded by a black mantle when viewed against

the flame of a Bunsen's burner also coloured by sodium.
IOf his merits as a chemist do not feel myself competent to
Iexpress an opinion, as have not paid particular attention to that
Iscience.
           am well acquainted, however, with his labours on

Thallium. By combining spectral observations with chemical

reactions, as described in a paper published some time since, he

obtained conclusive evidence of the existence of a new element,

although the quantities with which he necessarily operated were

very minute. He has now obtained the substance in larger

quantities ; and in a paper recently read before the Royal Society

he has described both the element itself, which he has isolated,

and several of its compounds. His name will therefore always

remain in science in connexion with the discovery of this element.

368 VISCOSITY SEPAKATED FROM FRICTION OF PIVOT

                      31st March, 1876.

   IThe torsion suspension you suggested, with a mounting which

you have already employed, will, find, answer perfectly to dis-

crimiDate between the friction of the pivot (or the torsion which

takes its place) and the viscosity of the minute quantity of the

residual air or gas.

Let the fly be suspended by a fibre from a stopper with your

heated indiarubber lubrication in the instrument fixed as in the

figure, and the whole mounted so that you can readily turn it

round its vertical axis. When all is at rest give 3 or 4 turns to

the whole, and notice the rate at which the fly turns. When all

is at rest again, give at the same rate as before, as nearly as can

be guessed 3 or 4 turns to the stopper alone, and notice the rate
Ifof the fly.
               viscosity be the chief thing which sets the fly in

motion, it ought to begin to turn much quicker when the whole

vessel goes round than when the top alone goes round. The

ultimate set, depending only on the torsion of the fibre, must of

course be the same.^

     Aliter. Turn the vessel round, keeping the stopper fixed in

space. If there be no viscosity the fly won't move ; if there be, it

will turn in the same direction as the vessel, though not so much,
and, after stopping the vessel, will presently set in its old position

relatively to space.

                                                                                3rd April, 1876.

    It is needless to say, if you carry out the experiment, the sus-

pending fibre should be as fine as is consistent with safety, that
the effect of viscosity may be more apparent. Save for the sake
of using the apparatus, when made, for other experiments, it would
be more convenient that the vanes should not be blackened on
one side, lest the instrument (the fly of it) should be set rotating
by the heat of the body.

                                                                              13th April, 1876.

   I have modified the opening sentence thus : " During the dis-
Icussion which followed the reading of Prof. R.'s and Dr S.'s papers,

at the last meeting of the R.S., mentioned an experiment which

           REACTION FORCE OF THE RADIOMETER            369

Iconfirmed [BEARING ON] the observations of Dr S.  have since

tried this in a somewhat modified form, and, as the results are very

decided,... before the Society."

My reason is this: My recollection of the results you men-

tioned on March 23rd is that you had obtained motions of a

floating case, but they were sometimes one way and sometimes the

other, and their law had not as yet been disentangled from the

individual results. This was afterwards done by the very beautiful

method of fixing the fly by a magnet, and now i.e. in the modi-

fied experiment as described and shown on March 30th all was

clear and harmonious, and the results confirmed very beautifully
Dr Schuster's experiment.

    Consequently it can hardly be claimed for the experiments on

a floating case up to March 30 that they confirmed the observa-

tions of Dr Schuster. It was the modification of the experiment

(too important to be qualified by a " somewhat "), bringing it to
what was shown on March 30, that made the whole thing clear ;

and NOW it was an obvious and very beautiful confirmation of
Dr Schuster's experiment*.

                                                                               VI ih April, 1876,

    It would be desirable to register not merely the amplitude of

the first swing, but the readings for the first 5 swings or so. This
would afford a good value of the logarithmic decrement (the decre-
ment per swing of the logarithm of the amplitude measured from
the new zero, or reading at which the image sets) which is the
constant most desirable to know.

                                    \1th April, 1876.

     The initial arc in your experiments depends not solely upon
the viscosity, but upon other circumstances as well, though the

Iviscosity doubtless plays a leading part. That the initial swing at

first mcreased as the air was exhausted take to be due not to

a greater viscosity, but to a diminished inertia. According to
Maxwell the viscosity (in the sense of the resistance offered to
a given motion of gliding, or, as engineers call of shearing)
independent of the density. Therefore the viscosity in the sense
of treacle-like character of the motion, depending therefore on the
                                    it,
                                                                is

           * Boy. Soc. Proc. 1876.

s. B. ii.                                          24

370 INTERACTION OF VISCOSITY AND INERTIA

viscosity in the former sense directly, and the inertia of a given

volume inversely continually increases as the density diminishes.
That is to say, with reference to a solid moving in the air, the

opposition to motion (arising from this cause) is independent of

the density, but the effect of viscosity on the air itself continually

increases as the rarefaction progresses, the same force having to
change the motion of a smaller and smaller quantity of matter.

IWhen said the viscosity is independent of the density, there is

of course a limit, and that limit is when the attenuation becomes

so excessive that we are no longer at liberty to treat the number
of molecules as practically infinite.

   IThat the viscosity appeared at first to increase as the air was

rarefied, take to be due to this, that when the bulb was turned

the tangential force had not time to set the comparatively dense

air in motion. If you turn a cup containing tea rapidly round, the

liquid close to the side is moved round, but that near the centre

remains nearly at rest in consequence of its inertia. If you turn

the cup round through a given angle, a slower turn would be more
effective in producing motion in parts about the centre than a
very quick turn. So in your experiment the amplitude will
depend upon the manipulation, will be different according as

you turn quickly or more slowly. And even if you turn at the
same rate, in experiments with different degrees of expansion,
there will be no simple relation between the arc swung through
and the viscosity. What is simply related to the viscosity is the
logarithmic decrement of the arc of oscillation. You have given
me the data for finding this in the case of swings in air at full

pressure. From the swings I derive the readings, and thence, by

taking the difference between the reading and 255 '3, the reading
referred to the new zero, thence the logarithms, and the decre-

ments of the logarithms.

Swing.  Beading.  Less 255*3.   Logs.          Diff.
+ 404      + 404    + 148-7    2-1724         0-3014
          + 181                               0-2614
-223      + 296    - 74-3      1-8710         0-3021
           + 235                              0-2393
 + 115    + 267   + 40-7       1-6096
                               1-3075         0-2760
- 61              - 20-3

+ 32              + 11-7              1-0682

                               Mean . . .

      THE OBSERVATION OF DECREMENTS OF SWING    371

      The log decrement might also be deduced directly from the
swings. Thus

      Swing.    Logs.                    Biff.
         404   2-6064                   0-2581
         223   2-3483                   0-2876
         115   2-0607                   0-2754
           61  1-7853                   0-2802
           32  1-5051

               Mean                     0-2753

      The log decrement per oscillation comes out O276. This

ought to be independent of the mode of starting the oscillations,

though in some cases the first swing would hardly be nearly

enough in regular series. It might be better to start an oscilla-

tion greater than you mean to observe, so that the oscillation

should be fairly established when you begin to preserve the scale
readings. Also for finding the log decrements it might be useful
to move the stopper : then, when the plate first comes to rest, to

move it back to its old position. In this way we avoid the

shifting of the zero and secure a larger arc, and we may probably
be able to dispense with the first arc, which is hardly in regular

series, I mean the first arc after the double motion of the

stopper.'

    It is desirable, doubtless, to record the first arc, but the dis-
cussion should, I think, turn on the logarithmic decrement of the

arc.

     The logarithmic decrement will involve, of course, the viscosity
of the glass. But glass is so nearly perfectly elastic, and the fibre
so very thin, that this will be practically insensible.

     The motion produced by the rotation of the bulb alone has the
advantage of exhibiting palpably to the eye that there is a
viscosity between the suspended body and the vessel ; but once
admit that the viscosity of the glass is practically insensible, and

the experiment with the stopper moved is as good.
     When the time of oscillation sensibly changes with the rare-

faction, it is as well to divide the log decrement of the arc by the

time of oscillation, so as to get the log decrement per second

instead of per oscillation. The log decrements are mostly alter-

nately greater and less than the mean.  Tt is quite conceivable

                                                      242

372 ESTIMATION OF LOGARITHMIC DECREMENT

that this may be real, and not accidental, as the body was moving
opposite ways just as the resistance to a ship would be different
according as she went prow foremost or stern foremost. Therefore

it is well to take an odd number of arcs for final discussion, leaving
an even number of intervals, so that the difference, if any, between

fore and aft motion should be eliminated.

                                            I8tk April, 1876.

IIt is needless to mention the satisfaction to the mind arising
from plotting one's observations on paper.                did so for the

numbers you sent for the swings in air, taking equal intervals

for abscissae, and ordinates proportional to the logarithms of the

arcs measured from the new zero. The dots lay very nearly in

a straight line. There appeared to be a slight curvature to the

axis of the abscissae, so slight that it hardly emerged with

certainty from casual errors. On theoretical grounds there ought

to be a slight deviation in this direction, which would diminish

with the density. As it is hardly sensible for full pressure, it

would probably be utterly insensible for anything approaching

high rarefaction.

When arcs decrease in geometric progression, and the log

decrement is to be found from the initial and final arcs, it is not

of course good to go very far in the way of smallness of arc, for
then an error in the reading of the arc tells too much. To use

the initial and final arcs only comes of course to the same thing as

Itaking the means, as did in my last, for the sake of comparing

the individual results with the mean of the whole. For to take

a particular instance, say there are 5 arcs, a1} a2, to a5 . The mean

log dec. is  - - -! log 02) + (log a2 log a3) + (log a3 log a4)

   J {(log                                       + (loga 4 -loga 5

                                                                    )},

                                                                           is
which  is  the same thing as (log a^ log a and the same
                   is                   it

                       J                             5),
evidently true whatever be the number of arcs.                      given

   If we enquire what the best arc to stop with, so that
                                                          a
                                                                 a
error in the observation of the small arc shall produce minimum

error in the deduced log dec., we find  (the last arc) should be

1/eth part of the first arc used in the computation, being thee

base of the Nap. logs, namely 2*71828... .As the small arcs can

be observed a little better than the large arcs, on account of the

        EXPLANATION OF THE RADIOMETER                     373

Jslowness of the motion, we may go a little lower, say to or -|th

of the first arc preserved for calculation.
     Your beautiful experiment with the little pith pendulum

shows very plainly the presence of residual gas. To keep the

pendulum permanently up to the large swing I saw, at Burlington

House, as the rate of rotation of the radiometer was slowly falling,
it would require a nice adjustment of the distance of the candle,

so that the rate of rotation should be almost exactly the critical

one for synchronism corresponding theoretically to a rate at which

one arm passes for each complete oscillation.

    I confess that now the evidence to my mind is very strong,

almost overwhelmingly strong, that the rotation of the radiometer

is due to an action of heat between the radiometer (or more
correctly the fly, the "radiometer" being the instrument as a
whole) and the case, through the intervention of the residual gas.
But the action is none the less a perfectly new one. No one,

Iso far as know, had made the slightest approach to discovering

it experimentally. No one had dreamt of its occurrence as a
matter of theoretical prediction. And even now its theoretical

explanation is not an application of well-ascertained laws, but the

following out of a certain speculation as to the ultimate constitu-
tion of matter and the nature of heat ; and your discovery, from
the thorough novelty of the action, cannot but exercise an im-

portant influence on the progress of our knowledge.
     For getting the log dec. of the arc it is sufficient to set the

mica in vibration anyhow, and the bulb and suspension might be

Iturned together ; and should not think there would be much

difficulty in arranging for that by a sufficiently flexible tube of

glass.

                                       20th April, 1876.

    I notice the same slight curvature in your figure for swings in
air at full pressure that I observed in my own.

    The other figures relate to high exhaustions, for which, as I

said, the curve for log decs, might be expected to be sensibly

straight. We have not at present the data for intermediate
Iexhaustions, and cannot therefore judge whether the curvature
Iffor full air is real or accidental.
                                       real it is very small and is

Ialtogether a subordinate feature of the experiment.

    It will be very important, think, to get the log decs, when
the apparatus is free, for a moderate series of exhaustions. If it

374 FALL IN VISCOSITY OF GAS AT HIGH EXHAUSTIONS

proves nearly constant (at least when corrected for the time) till

the expansion becomes very great, and then goes on diminishing,
that will, in the first place, confirm Maxwell's theory, and, in the
second place, will show that you have reached such extreme
exhaustions that the mean length of path of the molecules
between their collisions is no longer very small compared with
the dimensions of the apparatus a condition supposed in the

statement of the result that the viscosity is independent of the

density*.

   If Ithe result be as mentioned, namely, that the log dec. does

not begin to fall off notably till extreme exhaustions are reached,

that will, I think, afford evidence that you are really drawing

towards the condition of a perfect vacuum. By plotting a curve
with the number of bottles full of mercury for abscissae, and the

log dec. for ordinate, some indication might be afforded of the rate

at which you were approaching a perfect vacuum.

      The proportional error of observation of a small arc is of course
much greater than that of a large one, but the absolute error is

probably, if anything, rather less. In concluding that the final

Iarc had best be about 1/eth of the initial, supposed the absolute

errors the same, and the proportional error of course greater for

the smaller arc.

                             April, 1876.

Make the           fly     for the radiometer with disks thus prepared [of

roasted mica], and lastly blacken one face of each with smoky:
                             it
flame.
                                                             is a
    It seems to me this plan would combine the very advantages

we want, namely

   5. 4. 3. 2. 1.  Good absorption on one face.
                   Good reflection on the other, for heat as well as light.
                   Bad conduction.
                   Absence of organic matter.
                   Extreme lightness.

I  first thought of using mica painted white on one side and

smoked on the other. For the which might be safest to use

precipitated and dried silica, as we know that quartz              fairly

diathermanous, and the rays have got to get through glass any-

     * Cf. Prof. Stokes' reduction of Sir W. Crookes' observations, Phil. Trans, 1881,
Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. pp. 100116.

RADIOMETER DISCS SENSITIVE TO DIFFERENT RADIATIONS 375

Ifhow. Probably the purest pipe-clay would be safe.       the

Imaterial of a tobacco-pipe were turned into a thin lamina, pro-

bably this would be very good, and suppose it could readily

be managed by enclosing a bit of the clay in a pasty condition

between two pieces of smooth paper, and pressing it then by

squeezing it between flat surfaces, such as pieces of plate glass,
removing one piece of glass to let it dry; then, when quite dry,

heating before the blowpipe or in a furnace, which would at the

same time burn off the paper. But if the roasted mica be suffi-

ciently protected against breakage by the unroasted rim, it seems

to me to combine in a pre-eminent degree the very conditions we
Iwant.
        know you have tried mica, but there is a great difference
I take it between clear mica and roasted mica. The effect of the
heating I take to be its grand merit.
If the mica be very thin it will become pearly nearly up to
the gripping-point ; if thicker, it will remain clear for a little way
Iinwards, the heat being conducted to the metal.
                                                       have tried

this.
II think carbonate of lead might be used for the white paint,
but not a sulphate.  am disposed to think carbonate of lead

would be very good.

                                       28tk April, 1876.
I was much struck by the experiment described in your
Ilecture, in which a metal (silver, think) radiometer, when covered
Iwith a heated glass shade, went black side foremost.
                                                       can under-

stand a metal radiometer going this way when cooling ; but to

explain its going this way when subjected to the radiant heat

Ifrom a glass shade, feel obliged to suppose that the lamp-black

was snow-white with respect to the radiant heat of low refrangi-

bility, while the other surface was only silver- white.

   If this be so, I should expect even a pith radiometer with the

opposed surfaces coloured, one by lamp-black, the other by a salt

of copper (say oxalate, to take a pale one), would go opposite
ways, according as it were acted on by light alone or by invisible

heat alone of low refrangibility. For light the lamp-black would

be black and the oxalate of copper nearly white, but for heat of

low refrangibility the lamp-black would be white and the oxalate

of copper black. It is conceivable that the interposition of water

might even accelerate the motion produced by radiation from

a luminous source.

376 EVALUATION OF FRICTION OF A PIVOT

                                                1st May, 1876.
IYou asked me if could suggest a way of measuring the
Ifriction of the point of support of a radiometer.
                                                    don't see my
way to doing it directly ; but if we may assume, as Reynolds does,

and as we know is true for sliding contact, that the friction is

independent of the velocity (I don't know whether experiments

Ihave actually been made for a body revolving round an axis

passing through a point of contact), then, as think, we have

evidence that for a radiant source not too close the other resist-

ance is as the velocity, and the force inversely as the square of the

distance. Assuming this the thing may be done.

     Place a standard candle at such a distance (D) that the radio-
meter only just revolves uniformly, and again a good deal nearer,

but not too close, and determine the velocities (v, v) of rotation,
and the second distance (D f ) as well as the first. Then, by our
suppositions for any distance D and velocity v,

Iwhere C depends on the strength of the candle, which suppose

constant, B on the friction of the support, and A on the resistance
of the residual air, or whatever it be that causes a resistance pro-

portional to the velocity. The equations

gve

                             l/v-I/v'

     For example, suppose a candle at a distance 8 feet gave 3*6
turns per minute ; at distance 30 inches gave 40 turns a minute ;
then... the friction would be balanced by the force of the candle at
327'1 inches, or 27 feet 3*1 inches. To start the radiometer the

candle would have to be brought nearer than this, because experi-
ence shows that it requires more force to start a body resisted by
friction than to keep up the motion when it is once started.

     The thing might probably be got from the results which you

have sent in to the R.S., drawn on paper, with l/D2 for abscissae
and v for ordinate. If the equation be true we ought to get

a straight line till you come to higher velocities, where the square
of the velocity would come in. Only the straight line would not
pass through the origin, but cut the axis of x a little to the right
of it.

     EFFECTS OF HEATED COVERS OVER THE RADIOMETER 377

                                                    3rd May, 1876.

   In return for your kindness in presenting me with a radio-
I Imeter have a small contribution to your subject, which think
Iof some interest*.
                     have repeated the experiment over and over

Iagain to make sure of the result.
          take a tumbler or ale glass, with a foot, which serves for

a handle. I cover with it the spout of a kettle on the fire out of

which steam is rushing, and hold it there for some time till it gets
hot. Then hold it over the radiometer, of which the bulb is

buried in but without touching. Almost immediately nega-
     it,                                                    is a a
           is
tive rotation     set up (i.e. black foremost), which soon becomes
pretty lively.  Before very long, however, stops, and gives place
                                             it
to positive, which continues long.
a  If the tumbler                               is
  a             it        heated as before, but dried with        cloth

                      is
before inverting on the radiometer, there no negative rotation,

but tardy positive one, which lasts long.                           still

   If the wet hot glass be removed while the rotation

lively negative, the fly almost immediately stops, and then rotates
positively. The positive rotation distinctly increased by blow-
                                    it is
ing on the moist bulb or fanning it.     is

    If the tumbler, whether wet or dry, be removed after the fly

has been rotating positively for some time, positive rotation con-
                                             is a
tinues for good while. When the bulb moist (at least in thea

earlier stages), perhaps also when           dry, blowing on the bulb

seems to favour positive rotation.

The explanation seems to me to be this Water radiates and
                                             :

absorbs a kind of heat which passes pretty freely through glass,

and with respect to which pith bears to lamp-black the relation of
black to white. But with respect to the mean of what glass

radiates and absorbs, lamp-black  is  blacker than pith. Hence, at

first with the wet tumbler, the water radiation penetrating the

glass drives the pith, the glass radiation being in great measure

stopped by the bulb, some, even, by the water in liquid film and

vapour. Presently the bulb gets heated, and then the radiation

from the bulb carries the day.

When the tumbler          is  removed the radiation of the bulb

prevails over that of the small quantity of water in the shape of

    * Of. Prof. Stokes, "On certain Movements of Radiometers," .Roy. Soc. Proc.

1877, Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. v. pp. 24 35.

     378 RADIOMETER REPULSION ON SWINGING DISC

     dew, and on blowing the cooling of the water by evaporation

     favours positive rotation.

         It is clearly not enough to specify the temperature of a

     radiating body : its nature has a most material influence on the

     character of the radiation.

                                                                         5th May, 1876.
     I have tried your experiment of breathing on the radiometer.
     The motions all fall in with the explanation I gave you. In my
     Ifexperiment and in yours the surface was bedewed.
                                                                                              my ex-

     planation is right the effect does not depend on the deposition

     Iof moisture, and I mean to try if cannot produce it independently

     of this.

                                                                         8th May, 1876.

         Your figures for "repulsion by candle" are very remarkable.

     IThey denote, presume, statical measures ; for of course the first

swing, when a candle is let on, is influenced by the diminished
resistance, independently of any change in the force.

                                                                                         12th May, 1876.

    Here's the formula for least squares if you care for but

certainly would not be worth the trouble would cost to use it....
     But though don't recommend this, on account of the trouble,
                                                                 it

                                                                                            it,

                                                                                                 it

                         I

                              5), ,s

                             i

                                                    5a
4 iti would be easy to group a long series into iritervals of, say,
     arcs, and take the log decs, for comparison with one another.

     -Thus, let Oj, Og, a                          ... be the arcs; then we may take
           (log Oj. log a                          - - -(log
                                                        log a),      (log a log a 18
                                                                 J

                                                                    i
                                                                                        9
                                                                                                i3

                                                                                                      ),
                                                                                                                 ),
                                                                         (log          log a I7

and compare them with one another. They would be more
regular than the log decs, for single intervals only, as the errors of

     observation would be divided by                    4.

                                                                         12th May, 1876.

       think you will be able to get some interesting results from
     I
     the candle-swings without much trouble of reduction.
          I it
     Register the stopping-points when the candle;                                     let on in
                                                                         is
                                                                                   is
     successive swings and in an adjacent experiment find the log
     Ifdecs., without the candle.
                                                        this experiment  made after the

     other will only be necessary to give time for the thermal dis-

     turbance produced by the candle to subside you need not wait
                                                                     ;

                                                                                    is
                                                                                          I.
     till the mica has come to rest, but give a fresh impulse.
                                                                 it

     NLet be the log dec., the number whose log                                               Divide

          ABBREVIATED METHOD OF LOG. DECREMENTS   379

the successive arcs by N + 1, and apply the results to the readings

of the second ends of the arcs, to get the equilibrium readings for
the force arising from the candle supposed constant during that
swing, and equal to what it was in the middle of the swing.
These readings will increase and approach a limit. The results

may then be plotted, taking for abscissae 1, 3, 5, 7, ... and for
ordinates the equilibrium readings. You will probably get a

curve like [omitted].
     This would indicate not a direct force of the candle, but a

change of state brought about by the candle....

                                                                                                 May, 1876.

   I IBy way of experiment have tried the method mentioned
Ion the numbers you gave me in your letter of April 17. For the

log dec. take the arcs 116 and the 4th after, 27.

                       Log 116 = 2-0645, log 27 = 1-6721,

say log dec. = 0'098. The point is to see how near the equilibrium

reading, calculated with this log dec., giving log (N + 1) = 0'353,

for each arc separately, comes to zero.

Beading.  Arc.      Log.   Less 0-353.   Number.   Calculated
                                                  Equilibrium

                                                    Reading.

+         116       2-064  1-711         51'4     +0'4
            91      1-959  1-606         40-4
rS          71      1-851                31-5     -0'4
            58      1763     -498        25-7
            47  *,  1-672    -410        20'8     +0'5
            34      1-531    -319        15-1     +T3
            27      1-431    -178        12-0
            23               -078                 +-M0'8
                    1-362  1-009         10'2
                                                  -I'O
                                                  -0'2

     As to the calculation, the whole affair is the work of a few

minutes. The mean deviation from zero, in the last column, is

only 07 of a division. We may conclude that when the equi-

librium reading (i.e. what would be the reading if the mica were

not swinging) is slowly changing, the method will apply without
sensible error. Whether the change of zero is sufficiently slow, or
whether it will be necessary to have recourse to a more refined

Imethod, remains to be seen when one or two series are reduced.

suspect it will be sufficient, so that we shall readily find how the
deflecting force grows, as well as what it attains to.

     When the log dec. is small it would suffice, without even
calculating the log dec., to take the readings in threes : take the

380 PROCEDURE FOR SMALL DECREMENTS OF VIBRATION

mean of the extremes, then the mean of that and the middle, and

consider this as belonging to the time of the middle rest, not to

the middle of a swing. I give the result of the last example

treated so. This of course does not show a progressive change in
the zero of the swings, as there was no candle.

Mean.   Middle.  Mean of Last Line.

+ 52-5    -51               +1-2

-41-0     +40             -0-5
          -31
+ 33-5    +27               +1-2

-25-5     -20             -0-7

+ 20-5    +14               +0-2

-16'5     -13             -1-2
                          -0-5
+ 12-0

     The mean of the last col., without regard to sign, is 0*8
division.

                                                                                         13th May, 1876.

   I omitted to mention how you may get the log dec. when it

becomes so small that the observations as hitherto practised would

be tedious.

     Take 3 or 5 readings (giving 2 or 4 arcs), noting the h. m. s.
of the last by your watch. Then write or do anything till the arc
has fallen to O3 or 0'4 of what it was, and take 3 or 5 readings

more, noting the moment of the first. (Or say 3 at beginning and
7 at end ; the division would then be n + 1 + 3, or n + 4.) The
mean of the log arcs for the first set gives the log arc for the

moment of middle rest (i.e. the 2nd or 3rd reading as you took
3 or 5 in all), and the same for the last set. The difference of

noted times divided by the time of one swing gives the number of
swings (n say) that passed between the observations, and the
difference between the mean logs, divided by n + 2 or n + 4, as
you took sets of 3 or 5, gives the log dec.

      Indeed this is about the best way of treating even a mode-
rately long set of swings, only you count directly instead of using

your watch as a counter. Take the mean of, say, 2 log arcs at the
beginning, and of 4 or 6 when the arc has fallen to 0*3 or 0*4 of
what it was, and divide the difference between the mean logs by

the number of swings between the middles of the sets.

       GKOWTH AND DECAY OF RADIOMETER REPULSION               381

                                         Uth May, 1876.
I am much obliged for the communication of your very
Iinteresting results.
                       intend to send you the numerical results
I Iof the method proposed to-morrow, but write to-day to pro-
Ipose a couple of experiments, lest if waited the vacuum should
Ihave got too complete. Meanwhile will just observe that your

experiments show clearly

(1) That the force deflecting the mica (not including the
           torsion) is by no means constant, but mounts up

           during a very appreciable time.

(2) That it is well nigh at its full value even by the end of

            the first swing.

     (1) pretty well proves by itself alone that the force is not due

to radiation directly, but indirectly.

     From (2) it appears that these experiments won't serve to show
the law of increase of the force, as it is almost full grown by the

time the first observation is taken.

     And now for the experiments :

    Exp. 1. To try if the force lasts after the candle is cut off, and
whether, if it does, it falls fast or slowly. Adjust the mica to rest

under the influence of the candle ; now cut off the candle, and

take the readings for the ends of the swings.

    If the force ceases when the candle is cut off, the swings will

be to and fro about zero, the point the candle started from being

in series with the turning-points.
If it
If it  falls  as it  rose the swings will be like [omitted].
       falls         slowly they will be like [omitted],
              more

i.e. hovering about a point which gradually sinks to zero.

     Exp. 2. The growth of the force proves to be too quick to

Iallow of making out its law by the method mentioned. It may

be ascertained indirectly in this way :

     Adjust the mica to rest, with candle cut off. Then raise the

J Jscreen for, say, s., and in subsequent experiments for 1 s., 1 s.,

J2 s., 2 s., 3 s., 3J s., and note in each case how far the mica swings.
I don't think anything more than the first swing will be wanted.

The times of exposure might be taken 0'8, 1'6, 2*4, 3 '2, 4'0, if

a watch giving 5 ticks in 2 s. be used.

382 TEST OF CONSTANCY OF RADIOMETER DEFLECTION

                  Exp. 931. Series I.

                  Log Dec. 0-135 ; L. n + l 0'374.

Beading.   Arc.   Log Arc.             Less 0-374.  Number.   Zero for Swing.
            64                                                        37-0
       64   38    1-806                1-432        27-0               42-1
       26   28    1-580                1-206        161                42-2
       54   20                                                        42-5
      34    16    1-447                1-073        11-8              43-2
     50     14                                                         41-9
     36       6   1-301                0-927        8-5                39-5
     42
                  1-204                0-830        6-8

                  1-146                0-772        5-9

                  0-778                0-404        2-5

                                       Series VI.

                  lLog Dec. 0-066 ; L. n + 0-335.

Eeading.    Arc.  Log Arc.             Less 0-335.  Number.   Zero for Swing.
       88    88     1-944                  1-609       40-6          47-4
       29    59                            1-436       27-3           56-3
      83    54      1-771                  1-397       24-8           58-2
      32     51     1-732                  1-373       23-6           55-6
      75    43      1-708                  1-298        19-9          55-1
      40     35     1-633                  1-209       16-2           56-2
      68     28     1-544                  1-112       12-9           55-1
                    1-447
Eeading.   Arc.
       42   42           Series XIII.
       15    27
      44    29    Log Dec. 0-017 ; L. n + l 0-310.
     14     30
     41     27    Log Arc.             Less 0-310.  Number.   Zero for Swing.
       14   27                             1-313      20-6           21-4
     40     26       1-623                 1-121       13-2           28-2
      15    25       1-431                 1-151       14-2           29-8
     39     24      1-462                  1-167       14-7           28-7
       16   23      1-477                              13-2           27-8
     39     23                             1-105       13-2           27-2
      17    22      1-415                  1-088       12-7           27-3
                    1-398                  1-070       12-2           27-2
                    1-380                  1-052       11-7          27-3
                    1-362                              11-3           27-3
                                           1-032       11-3           27-7
                    1-342                              10-7           27-7
                                    ,                  10-7           28-3

      The numbers in Col. 6 are got by applying Col. 5 to Col. 1, by
subtraction and addition alternately. The first figures are marked
off with a line, because the method gives only a rude approxima-
tion for the first swing, as the whole of the force, very nearly, has

             DETERMINATION OF CHANGE IN THE FORCE              383

grown during this swing. There seems to be some indication of
a minute decrease of the force after a time. This may be real,
and may depend on the conveyance of heat by conduction to the
hinder face, which then acts antagonistically.

                                                                                          Wth May, 1876.

    If you attempt the experiment with the subdivided time,

i.e. with the force let on for a short time only, the things wanted
will be

         1 (and chiefly). The first arc the body swings through ;
                      and as independent matters

          2. The log decs, for the exhaustion in question.
         3. The equilibrium reading for candle on, which may be

                    got just as in weighing, as the log decs, are now so

                small. The swings, if inconveniently large, may be

                     damped or destroyed by the hand screen.
         4. The time of vibration, candle off or on, say off.

      2 and 3 will of course vary with the exhaustion ; 4 is practi-

cally constant, but I mention it as it might be as well once for all,

now that the log decs, are so small, to get a thoroughly good value

by finding the time of, say, 50 vibrations.
     With such small log decs, the equilibrium position, whether

with candle permanently off or permanently on, may be got as in

Iweighing, and the more elaborate formula gave (with the 1 -t- N),

which would be useful with a larger log dec., is not required. The
variation of the force is not traceable by the swings, as it is well-
nigh accomplished within the first.

             16th May, 1876.
I was working last night at the mathematics of the swings
Iwith a view to get the variation of the force with the time.
                                                               see

it would be desirable to take 6 or 7 swings, and not the first
alone. A determination, even moderately accurate, of the time of

the first swing, i.e. time from candle let on to first rest of spot
of light, would also be desirable. This would require either a

second observer or a second experiment. I dare say, however, if

you call "Now, Now" to your assistant, he could observe the

time and you the arc, so as to do the two together. The swing-

Itime being, say, 4s., the first swing should suppose would take
6 s. or so.

384 DETERMINATION OF CHANGING ZERO

                                   16th May, 1876.
IYou ask how to get the real zero, but
Ifwhat you mean by the real zero.       must first ask

                                   your apparatus had no

inertia, and had no resistance to overcome, it would obey the force

at once, and move without swinging. The true curve would then
be something like this,... the force rising at a decreasing rate till it

is sensibly constant.
     Actually the mica swings, and we may think of its motion as

of one swinging about a point which itself changes more or less

slowly with the time. The rate of change would seem to be such

that the point a, or thereabouts, would correspond to the end of

the first swing.

    If by the real zero you mean that for the force when it has

become sensibly constant, it is clear that we must reject that point

where the force is distinctly varying. The simple method I gave

you will apply without sensible error when the force, though not
absolutely constant, varies but slowly, and may give useful

information as to slow changes in the force. But when the

variation is rapid, as in the first swing, a more refined method

must be used.

     Hence, to find the zero for the force supposed constant, the

Ifirst one, or possibly two or three results, must be discarded.

marked off the first with a red line as giving but a rough approxi-

mation, and that to a changing zero. The second is so nearly in

Iseries that cannot possibly say that it is out. Hence it will

suffice, I think, to take the mean of the rest after striking out the

first. In Series I. the last is out of line, for whatever reason, but

whether we include it or not will make little difference in the

mean. With it we get for mean 41'9, without 42'4, a difference of

only half a division of the scale.

   If the small falling off in the force be normal, and not acci-

dental, the time curve would be like the following : [omitted],

and we must distinguish between the maximum force correspond-

ing to the tangent fg and the ultimate asymptote hk. But until
this feature be established as normal, if normal it be, it is not

worth while to attend to it.

Instead of using the log dec. for the whole series of swings, we

may get the slowly varying zero by taking the geometric means
between consecutive arcs, and applying half the result to the

middle readings ; and where the log dec. is small the geometric

         DOES GAS-FRICTION DEPEND ONLY ON PRESSURE?                                            385

Imeans won't sensibly differ from the arithmetic.          treat, for an

example, Series VI. in this way....

IThe two [methods] differ by only half a division.

  don't expect the log dec. will be changed whether the candle

is off or on. The log dec. depends for a given swinging body on

the degree of exhaustion ; the zero about which the swings take

place, on the force of the candle.

   IThough the log dec. will vary with the suspended body,

expect the ratio of the log dec. to the log dec. for the same body,

with the same gas, while at a still measurable pressure, depends

only on the pressure. That
                       a
                              a
                                     is,

                                  ; if
                                          if

                                                        a

                                             I

                                                     if
                                     for air at 50 mm. pressure we

get log dec. O'.SOO with swinging body A, and only O'O-SO at
Ia
some high unknown exhaustion and          swinging body has in
                                                           B
hydrogen at 10 mm.     log dec. 0'200, and                 the hydrogen be
                                                            aI
exhausted till the log dec. sinks to 0*020, expect the degree

of exhaustion in the hydrogen and air would be the same.                                       am

not sure of this, but anyhow the ratio of the log dec. at high

exhaustion to the log dec. at standard pressure, such as 50 mm.,
                               a

will, think, depend only on, and therefore serve to define, the

degree of exhaustion.

                                                     19th May, 1876.

Did understand you rightly to say that the time from letting
         II
on the candle to the first rest was less than the time subsequently

Iffrom rest to rest, i.e. less than half the time of complete
                      so, own am puzzled  ;I

                                             a
                                                                    1-J
                                                                        a

                                                                                       1^
oscillation     ?     fI                  don't see how to account
                           fI
for it.         should have expected the time to beis      or time of

one vibration, i.e. or of the time of complete oscillation.

        am struck by the extreme regularity of the swings whenII
the candle cut off; probably minute variations of intensity of

the candle prevent them from being quite so regular when the

candle on.
         it is
    shall feel curious to see whether the roasted mica radiometer

will behave similarly to the other with a heated wet tumbler.                                  I

expect won't.

                                            2<M May, 1876.

Many thanks for the communication of the results relative to
the temporary action of a candle. My " puzzle " think
                                          I                                                    now
                                              I

                                                                     is
cleared up. When you told me at the R.S. that the first swing

took less time than the regular swing-time, thought you were

speaking with reference to experiments in which the candle was

s. B. ii.                                                                                  25

386 TIME OF ESTABLISHMENT OF FOECES IN RADIOMETER

let on and left on, whereas you were really speaking of experiments
in which the candle was let on and then cut off for 1 s. or so.

   IThe supposed diminution of time of swing in the former case
could not understand ; in the latter it is intelligible enough. The

large effect on the time of the second swing shows that even 3 s.

after the candle is cut off the force is far from having disappeared.

Hence the second swing at least, as well as the first, ought to be

rejected in finding the log dec. That is to say, it could only be

properly used by the aid of a very refined mathematical analysis :

the simple methods I gave you, which apply when the state of

things is fairly established, would hardly be accurate enough to

Iuse till after the second swing, or possibly later.
        have little time for calculations while my lectures are going

on, but when they are made we shall be able to see within what

limits the simple formulae may be used.

IThe behaviour of the mica (roasted) and lamp-black radio-
meter is altogether different from what          had ventured to
Iprophesy in relation to the hot tumbler.
                                                 find my ideas as

to the behaviour of rnica rectified. The mica radiometer agrees
with the silver and lamp-black one you mentioned in your

lecture.

I have been making some                                   VI ih May, 1876.
Iof one of the swings.         calculations as to the dynamics
                        chose
                               Series XIII. I assumed a law

of decrease of the force calculated to represent it in its main

Ifeatures, and determined two disposable constants to make them

fit. The constants used were, besides the log dec. which you

gave me, (1) The amplitude of the first arc, and (2) the reading
at which the image tends to set.

According to my calculations it takes about T487 s., or, say,

1J s. for the force to reach half its full value, and by the end
of the first swing  it would still be about 2-J scale divisions behind

its full value. I   make the time of describing the first arc about

5'75 s., instead of 4'33 s., to which it tends.

The mica can hardly be assumed to come to its normal

condition of swing by the end of the first swing, so that it

would be well to reject the first two arcs in getting the log

dec., &c.

             LIMIT OF ACTION OF SPRENGEL PUMP                       387

   I see no reason why the    law you  mention         July, 1876.  on,
                                                should not go
save for one of two things :

(1) Glass is known to condense vapour of water on its surface
          in an invisible state, and platinum is known, or at least
          believed, to have similar power as to permanent gases,

        such as oxygen and hydrogen. It is conceivable that

           glass might have a similar power as to permanent gases,
          and that the condensed air or gas might be let out

           slowly into the gaseous form. Perhaps this is not very

           probable.

(2) You must have some liquid in contact with your vacuum
          when you use the Sprengel. This is actually, or is
          presumed to be, oil of vitriol, or rather chemically pure
          sulphuric acid. But is not this certain to contain a
          small excess either of water or of sulphuric anhydride,

           arid may not this excess give rise to a vapour of its

         own kind of a very minute tension ? Nay, even if you

          had chemically pure sulphuric acid, with no excess
         of either constituent, might not a minute portion of it
          in contact with a vacuum suffer dissociation into water

           and sulphuric anhydride, one constituent being held
          in solution, and the other evolved as vapour? The

            vapour volume of sulphuric acid seems to indicate that
          in the process of distillation it is temporarily dissociated.

          May not there be a minute dissociation even at ordinary

                  temperatures ?

   IFrom your figure should say that your law probably holds

up to the ninth or tenth bottle, or say a pressure of 1 1,000,000th

Iof an atmosphere, when some action previously negligible begins

to tell. If there were no such action don't see why the evacua-

tion should not go on indefinitely, or why it should be possible
(though it might be quicker) to get a higher vacuum by chemical

means than by the Sprengel.

                                                                                   18th November, 1876.

I can now explain to my own satisfaction the opposite

behaviour of the two mica radiometers to a heated glass shade.
IIt arises,
             feel no doubt, from the greater opacity of the one

you gave me long ago, arising partly, apparently, from a greater

                                                              252

388 EFFECT OF FORM OF VANES AND BULB OF RADIOMETER

thickness (to judge by the time it takes to get under way), and
still more, perhaps, from the higher roasting, causing a more

complete splitting up, and thereby multiplying the reflections.
     The aluminium radiometer shows little or no effect of difference

of temperature of the two faces, but the motion is rapid when the

bulb is hot and theis          cool, or the converse. The action depends
                          fly
on the more favourable presentation of the convex surface to the

glass of the bulb. When you present a candle to either face,

convex or concave, the metal warmed slowly by absorption, and
                                is
the face which        the more favourably placed as to the glass
                                   I
prevails. When you blacken the metal the black surface absorbs

heat readily, and tends to become the warmer, and so far tends to

be repelled. On the other hand, for equal temperatures of the

faces the convex side, being more favourably presented to the

glass, prevails and repelled (the fly being warmer than the case),is
and the two distinct causes of motion conspire or oppose each

other as the case may be.
     The effect of shape depends not on curvature as such, but

on favourable presentation....

And now for the experiment            had to suggest.      think
                                                        by I
                                                           I

                                                                      it
would be possible to make a perfectly flat radiometer, mean

with a perfectly flat fly alike on both faces, revolve     throwing

ike obliquity from off the fly on to the case.  I  will suppose the fly

to be two-armed like your recent ones. Let vertical partitions

of thin clear mica be fixed in the bulb, with their planes not

passing through the axis of rotation, but inclined as shown in the

            think      would be well to have as many as three
figure.  I         it

                             a
partitions 120 apart, and then one or other of the two opposite

arms would come near partition at every 60 of rotation, which

would be favourable to the avoidance of dead points.... If more

than three oblique partitions could be introduced      it  might be

                                                                   a
an advantage, but don't know what amount of trouble might
                   II
be involved, and       think three would be sufficient for            fair

trial.

As to the material of the disks (or squares, or rectangles),

a metal should be employed.     it should propose thin copper or

silver as having good conducting power. The bright metalII

would absorb so little that     might be desirable     it  should be

made to absorb little better.        don't wish to use lamp-black,
                   a

partly for fear the blacking should be overdone, and effects thus

         ABSORPTION BY THE BULB EVADED                  389

introduced depending on a difference of temperature of the two

faces; partly for fear the coating of lamp-black, though thin, should

be vastly inferior to the metal in conducting power, and thereby

introduce a difference of temperature between the body of the
Imetal and the outer surface of the lamp-black.
                                                        should propose

to hang the fly under a bell-glass inverted over materials suitable

for the slow generation of hydro-sulphuric acid, and wait till a

moderate tarnish, alike on both faces of the disks, was produced,

or dip it in a solution containing a very little hydro-sulphuric
acid. A higher blackening would not be objectionable provided
it be understood that the instrument is to be used with three

I(or more) candles at equal intervals all round.

    I think see my way to making a fly revolve, which consists

of a horizontal circular disk of mica blackened above, and mounted

so as to be movable about its axis. But it would be well to try

the other experiment first.

    It is obvious that the direction of rotation to be expected when

Ithe fly is heated by radiation is against the points.
On second thoughts          am disposed to avoid blackening

altogether, and use the metallic surface. Aluminium or very

thin copper might be used.

                                                                                         2Znd November, 1876.

    I find the most effective way to make the aluminium radio-

meter revolve positively without first making it go negatively

Iby heating the case, is to cover it with a tumbler (which prefer

to a shade as being of thicker glass), and hold a heater, such
as a hot poker, outside, presenting it to different sides for fear of

heating one side of the bulb. The office of the tumbler is

to absorb the rays capable of ready absorption by glass, so as
Ifto avoid heating the bulb.
                              the heater is used for more than

a short time, a spare tumbler should be at hand, and the first
replaced by the cool one before it has had time to get sensibly

heated inside. The heater and tumbler being then removed,

the rotation continues for a long time, as the metal cools but

slowly.

                              22/ic? November, 1876.
II may as well mention now the experiment
                                                        was thinking

of for making a disk revolve about its axis.
     The disk is circular and horizontal, mounted like the fly of

a radiometer. For lightness sake it may be of mica, which need

390 TANGENTIAL FORCE ON A RADIOMETER DISC

not be roasted, blackened above. Fixed to the bulb above the
disk are three or four flat pieces of clear mica. Each extends

from the side of the bulb to near the centre there is no use

going very near, as the leverage there is small and ends below
in a straight horizontal edge, leaving just space enough for the
disk to revolve without risk of scraping. The edge is in a radial
direction, and the plane of the plate inclined about 45 to the
horizon, of course in the same direction for them all.

I With a candle the rotation should be against the edge, which
  will call the positive direction, with a warm glass shade negative,
becoming positive when the shade is removed after it has been on

some time. If the shade be hot there may be a little positive

rotation just at first. A hot wet shade would probably produce
a little positive rotation, quickly changing to negative ; and

blowing on the warm dewed bulb would produce positive

rotation.

                                               12th January, 1877.

As to par. 2 of 191, 1 may observe that the curve of intensity

for a diffraction spectrum may be deduced very nearly indeed from

the curve for a refraction spectrum by dividing the ordinates of

Ithe latter by X3, X being the wave-length.
192, par. 4.   don't think the difference depends on wave-

length so much, but on the greater intrinsic energy of the part of

the spectrum about the red than the part about the violet.

A radiometer or thermopile, except in so far as lamp-black may

become deficient in blackness or pith in whiteness for the invisible

rays, indicates the total energy ; the eye or a collodion plate

Iindicates nothing of the kind.
206.        suspect the incoherence of the effloresced salt had

more to do with it than increased absorption.
I207, par. 2.
               suspect that you get a different result from

Dewar because you used so thin a glass cover : that the effect you

obtained was due almost wholly to the heating of the cover by the

radiation.

                                                                                  January, 1877.
     The explanation you mention of the effect of touching the

Ibulb with the finger has not, so far as know, been published. It

Ioccurred to me a few weeks ago. When wrote to Prof. Righi
I adopted your original explanation, namely, that with regard

         EFFECT OF LOCAL HEATING OF THE BULB                  391

to the radiation from the heated part of the glass the two faces

of the disks, the lamp-black and the pith, were black alike, and

Iso the arms set at 45. Shortly afterwards saw my mistake,

namely, that the warmed bit of the bulb did not act by radiation

at all, but was itself the repelling body, of course through the

intervention of the molecules rebounding from it with a greater
Ivelocity than that with which they struck it.
                                                was thinking of
writing to Prof. Righi to correct my mistake, but I have not done

so yet.

But this does not get over all the difficulty of the vapour

of water experiment. The radiator was a candle, some 2 or

3 inches off at least, which surely must have warmed the lamp-

blacked surface more than the white, and more one would think

than the wall of the bulb. Besides, if watery vapour is so

adverse to the action that the blackened pith exerts no repelling

action, how is it that the heated wall does exert a repelling

action ?

   IStill dare say the explanation may be in the direction you

have indicated, and that you, who are familiar with all the details

Iof the experiment, may be able to perceive the answer to the

difficulties mentioned.

   IYou long ago mentioned in conversation, and presume you

published, your former explanation of the effect of a local heating
of the bulb, and it may be as well, in an appendix or note at the

end, to give what is doubtless the true explanation.

                                         20th January, 1877.

   I have for some time had in my head an experiment which
I hesitated to communicate to you lest I should only be troubling
Iyou in a case in which hardly expected a positive result. Yet

ifinasmuch as the result  positive might lead to the solution
Iof a great astronomical mystery, think I may as well mention it.

     The experiment is this. Let two or three (better three)
thermometers be taken, as nearly alike as may be. The scales

should be pretty open, from ordinary temperatures to 150 F.

or so, but the graduation need not be more accurate than that

of the commonest thermometers. Let each be enclosed in an

outer bulb, which should extend, if not the whole way, at least

some way up the stem, but better the whole way. The outer
bulbs should be as nearly as may be alike for all. The bulb should

have a tube for exhaustion leading off.

392 MOLECULAR CONVECTION OF HEAT ACROSS VACUA

     Let the bulbs (or cases) be exhausted to a common pressure
of, say, 15 millims., and sealed off. When at the temperature

of the apartment let them be plunged together into a water-bath

at a temperature of 100 or 150 or so, and observe the rates at

which they respectively rise. This would, of course, be the same

if they were all alike, but this cannot be assumed, and it will be
necessary to allow for the differences, if differences there be.

Then keeping one for comparison, open the other two, and con-

tinue exhaustion, sealing off one, say, when the barometer and

gauge are sensibly level, and the other at the highest vacuum

which can be attained. Then compare them again as to the rates

of rise in the water-bath, and see whether it has been changed by

the more complete exhaustion.

There are two ways in which heat can get from the case to the

thermometer (1) By radiation across the intervening space ;
(2) by communicating an increase of motion to the molecules

Iof the gas, which carry it to the thermometer. The latter,
   suspect, is the way by which chiefly heat is conveyed from the

negative electrode of a Geissler's tube to the glass walls.
     Now it is quite conceivable that a considerable part, especially

Iin the case of heat of low refrangibility, may be transferred by

" carriage," as will call it to distinguish it from convection, which

is different, and yet that we should not perceive a diminution of

transference, and consequently a diminution of rate of rise with

increased exhaustion, so long as we work with such vacua as can

be obtained by good air-pumps. For
      is
         is

                                                              ;

                                          is
                                                              if,

                                                                                            by
                                                                                                       is is
                                                       on the one hand, there

are fewer molecules impinging on the warm body, which

adverse to the carriage of heat, yet on the other the mean length

of path between collisions     increased, so that the augmented

motion      carried further the number of steps        which the

temperature passes from that of the warmer to that of the cooler

body    diminished, and accordingly the value of one step

increased.

Hence the increase in the difference of velocity before and

after impact may make up for the diminution in the number of

molecules impinging.

Hence       conceivable that                           may not be till such high
      is
               it
                     is
                                                   it
exhaustions are reached that the mean length of path between

collisions becomes comparable with the diameter of the case, that

further exhaustion produces a notable fall in the rate at which

Jheat conveyed from the case to the thermometer.

PROBABLY SMALL COMPARED WITH RADIATION   393

      Should experiment show that there is a notable fall, the

inference would be that if the vacuum were absolute the transfer

of heat, which in that case would take place only by radiation,
would be but small compared with that actually observed in

ordinary circumstances.

And now for the applications. You know that Huggins found

that the heads of comets and the rest of the tail are partly self-
luminous, in the condition of a glowing gas. But how is it that

the sun is able to volatilise matter in the nucleus, and render the

vapour of it glowing, while the comet is still at a distance from
the sun comparable with that of the earth ?

    Now if it be true that the greater part of the heat from

a heated body surrounded by a gas passes off by communication

to the gas in the first instance, and comparatively little by direct
radiation, at least till the temperature becomes high and the

radiation copious, we can conceive how the heat derived from
absorption of the sun's radiation might accumulate in a small
body destitute of atmosphere, and without gravitation enough,

perhaps, to retain one, till at last it got high enough to volatilise
some of its constituents.

   IThough the cooling of bodies in a vacuum has been tried, it

has been only, so far as know, with such vacua as can be produced

Iby air-pumps.      was disposed to blacken the bulb of the

     P.S. At first
Ifthermometer, but I think it best not.
                                         'a positive result should

be obtained, then in experiments with an ulterior purport it might

be good to blacken the bulb.
                                                                                  23rd January, 1877.

   I INow that have read Kundt and Warburg's paper must
Iretract my proposal, for find it is exactly what they have already

done. There would be no use in going over the same ground.

But there is one point in which your work might usefully
supplement theirs. Your vacua are probably more nearly perfect
than what they worked with, and it would be interesting to

examine more closely whether, when once the vacuum is high,

no further retardation of rate of heating or cooling is reached
Ifby further improvement of the vacuum.
                                         that can be reached

the inference would be that the whole of what is then observed is

due to radiation. But this could probably be better studied by

a single thermometer, the case of which remains attached to the

394 KATE OF ESTABLISHMENT OF RADIOMETER FORCES

pump, than by two or three. The only object of detaching them
would be to facilitate the observation of the rise or fall of

temperature. But the thing could be more conveniently done
by following K. and W.'s plan of heating a single thermometer
heating it higher than the highest point you mean to observe,
and then leaving it to itself, and noting the time it takes to fall

from so-and-so to so-and-so. It does not appear whether K. and

VV. used a water-bath to keep the temperature of the case first

to one temperature and then to another. If not, I don't exactly

see how they proceeded, for unless the case were kept to two
constant temperatures the rate of fall or rise of the thermometer

would be a compound effect, depending, in fact, on the rate of fall
or rise of temperature of the case.

                                                                                        8th March, 1878.

Some considerable time ago you were so good as to send me
Isome of your results as to successive swings.
                                                considered them

Imathematically, and mentioned some conclusions to which they

led. observed that if the force had begun at its full value as

soon as the light was let on, the starting-point would have been in

series with the successive turning points. Such was very far from

Ibeing the case, and remarked that this experiment alone would

suffice to show that the action of light was not a direct one. This

conclusion had already been otherwise made out by the researches

of Reynolds, Storiey, and Schuster. The results of the swinging
experiments showed that the force had not quite reached its full

value by the end of the first swing, though not far from it.

Had the law of the increase of the force with the time been

known, your observations of the turning points, combined with
those in which the light was shut off after a second or half second

or so, would have sufficed to determine the unknown constant or

constants in the expression for the force, and so determine the

force completely as a function of the time. As we do not, how-

ever, know the law, all we could do would be to assume an

empirical law something like the actual law, and determine the

constants in it. We should thus get a law which would be not

very far from the truth. This, however, is not a satisfactory way

of proceeding, and would besides lead to calculations of consider-
Iable length.
               felt that it would be far more satisfactory to
Iobserve the deflection as a function of the time ; but the way

thought of setting about it was by means of a chronograph some-

DEDUCED FROM CHRONOGRAPHIC OBSERVATIONS  395

thing similar to what they have in observatories, and an instru-
ment of the kind is rather an expensive affair.

     But in a paper by Messrs Ayrton and Perry, recently read

before the Royal Society, they mentioned having employed a
piece of clockwork which cost very little to drive a cylinder

covered with paper, which was used as a screen on which to
receive the spot of light reflected from the mirror attached to the
swinging body, on which they found it easy to follow with a
pencil the path of the light. They give no data from which to
judge of the amount of accuracy of which the method was sus-
ceptible ; they only speak of the observation as easy to make and

as giving useful results.

   If the pencil could be followed well enough the result would

give the deflection as a function of the time, from which the force

Icould be afterwards obtained as a function of the time by a

graphical process, which need not now describe.
     Possibly the registration might be rendered automatic without

much trouble by substituting for the lamp a biggish Leyden jar
with rather close terminals, working the jar by an induction coil,

and using sensitive paper to cover the cylinder, which would then be

Icut off, developed, and fixed by the usual methods of photography.

  think there is a field of research in this direction if the registra-

tion could be managed.
     The above would of course require the interposition of a lens

to form an image of the minute but intense spark.

                                                                              30t/i April, 1878.

   IWhat told you about assuming a law of force for trial related

to the former experiments, in which the readings of rest at the

end of each swing were alone given. When we have the whole
curve representing the motion, as in your last experiments, we

can get the force without making any hypothesis. It remains to

be seen how far errors of observation will tell in the result. The

easiest way of getting the result would be by a graphical con-

Istruction, or perhaps partly by this and partly by calculation.

mean to try my hand at it. It seems to me that the time scale is

Isomewhat too close for accurate results, but can judge better
when I have tried.

   IIn the event of any future measures it would, think, be

convenient, if the apparatus adapts itself to the observation, to

396 ANALYSIS OF INCIPIENT VIBRATION-CURVE

stop and screen off the plate after two or three swings, then
manipulate with a screen so that the bar shall be nearly at rest
when the candle is full on, then start the plate again and take two

or three swings. Or if more convenient to draw back the plate

and then take the swings for the position of nearly rest. The
object of this is to get more accurately the ordinate for rest with

candle on.

                                                                                         17th May, 1878.

   I IAs can hardly attack your curves while my lectures last,
Iwill describe what should be disposed to do in the first instance

with the curves.

IA good part of the curve is described while the force is
sensibly equal to what it finally becomes.             should be disposed,

therefore, in the first instance to start from a point sufficiently on

for the influence of the change of force to have subsided, and then

calculate backwards to see what the previous positions of the

tracing point would have been if the force had always been what
it now and the original motion had been such as to give the
is,

   I
motion after some time what actually is.
                            it

For this want to know the log dec. and the time of vibration,

or rather the scale value of the time of vibration. This you regu-

larly register at any rate they can be deduced from the records
             I;
themselves.       will suppose them then known.

Let ABC be the traced curve, DE line parallel to the motion
                                pa
of the plate. Choosing two of the turning-points, B,          C,  draw
                                                    1
tangents there parallel to DE. Let be the number correspond-

ing to the log dec., and divide the distance between the parallel

tangents so that the parts are in the ratio of to and measuring
                                                       0, p,
from the tangent on the decreasing side, draw a line GH parallel
to DE, then GH will be the equilibrium line for the force equal to
its final value. If cuts the curve in
                  it                        0,  we may take for the

origin from which to measure the abcissae in our calculated

numbers. Let time be measured along OH, the distance the

plate travels in one complete oscillation, or two vibrations from

rest to rest, being called 360. Then   if       be the ordinate for

                                           y

a time equal to n oscillations from rest to rest, where n may

be integral or fractional, before the spot was at             we have, sup-

posing the force constant,

                                                                  (1)

TO DETERMINE LAW OF ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCE  397

where G has still to be determined. In this expression D denotes

the log dec.
     The determination of G in the general case involves rather too

much mathematics to go into at present. But if D be small, as is

practically the case in your experiments, G may be determined

very simply. In this case the maximum ordinate at B will
without sensible error be the value of y for n 0'5, and therefore
if y be this maximum ordinate,

which gives C. The formula (1) will now give y, calculating, say,
for every 60, i.e. putting 3n= 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, &c., and again to get
the curve to the left of 0, putting 3n = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, &c.
By laying down the calculated curve we should see how far it
agreed with the traced curve, and accordingly where the force
differed sensibly from what it finally became. There are graphical
modes of dealing with the difference between the two curves, so
as to get the force, but it would take too long to explain this fully
at present.

   IMeanwhile would observe that the first treatment in the
Imanner indicated would already give us an insight into the

manner in which the force approached its final value.

                                                                                         2lst May, 1878.

    The " Force " of which I wrote, and mentioned its dying away,

was the actual mechanical force, exclusive of the force of torsion
and the resistance of the air, acting on the suspended body. This
force begins from nothing, when the candle is let on, rapidly
increases, and would attain nearly its full value in perhaps a
second or two after the candle was let on, supposing it were not
cut off again ; but again begins to change rapidly when the candle

is cut off. It would remain sensible for perhaps a second or so

after the candle was cut off. The force, as we now know, depends
on the heating of the surface of the swinging body by the previous
action of the candle.

     In the example you gave me in your last the fact of the first

arc, from the first to the second stopping-point, being greater than
the calculated arc from applying the log dec. to the subsequent

Iswings, proves that the effect of the candle had not subsided,

mean that the repulsive force due to it had not subsided, when

398 EFFECT OF THERMAL CAPACITY OF RADIOMETER VANES

the body was at its first turning-point. But the agreement of all
the rest with the calculated numbers proves that it was insensible

by the time the body had got to its second turning-point. I find,

from measuring on your figure, that the first turn took place
4'5 seconds after the candle was cut off. There was therefore,
even so long as four seconds and a half after the candle was cut

Ioff, a sensible repulsion due to its action. This was longer than

had anticipated that the action should have been sensible.

                                                           9th June, 1878.

   IWith respect to the greater part of the explanation of the

movements in the case of the bulb uniformly heated, would refer

you to my former letter.

   IThere was, however, one case which struck me as peculiar as

read the sheets of the MS. which are now in your hands. I had

not time to mention to you the explanation which occurred to me.

The case is that of the moderately thin and the excessively thin

flies of mica when the case was plunged into hot water. Why

should the radiometer with the very thin mica manifest a be-

haviour in most respects the reverse of the other ?

The explanation you have givenis                           think, right as far as
                                                           ?
                                   is,I
                                                                          it
                                                        :
goes. The difference depends on the greater stowage-room for
heat of the thicker mica. But how does this operate It seems

to me the state of the case as follows

The thicker mica, having considerable stowage for heat, re-

mains colder when the bulb and the gas within are warmed. The

fly therefore goes negatively for a good while. When the bulb                      is

taken out cools before the fly, and the fly goes positively.
          ?
With the thin mica the single turn negatively indicates an
            it
action of the same kind. But whence the subsequent positive

rotation

Assuming the correctness of your supposition, that the differ-

ence depends in some way on the stowage-room of the thicker as

compared with the thinner mica, we are led to regard the positive

motion of the thin as depending upon the present actions going

on rather than the past history of the fly. The positive motion

indicates that the fly  warmer than what than the bulb
             ?

                        is
                                is

                                                                                                              ?
                                                                                                                                                               ?
We must go closer than that into the state of things. Then what

part of the bulb, for the whole will not be quite at the same
                It the inner surface of the bulb, and the gas,
temperature

                 KADIANT DISTINGUISHED FROM CONVECTED HEAT          399

which will be very nearly at the same temperature as this inner

surface, that we have to deal with ; we have to explain how the

fly is warmer than this.

           While heat is being conducted through the bulb the tempera-

ture of the glass will not be uniform. Thin as the glass     is,    we

must imagine               divided into strata, of which the temperatures
                 I
will decrease from the outside to the inside. The skin of water
                       it
in contact with the glass will also not be quite so hot as the water

generally.           will neglect this latter, however, the effect of which

will probably hardly be sensible, and attend only to difference of

temperature of the different strata.

           Poisson speculated that conduction was only internal radiation

and absorption.      II    believe, however, the two are distinct, and go

on together, and will choose my language accordingly. Though

the theoretical explanation will not be affected by the theoretical

alternative we adopt.

           The heat will then be distributed, partly by conduction, partly

by internal radiation. The heat radiated inwards by the outer

and warmer strata of the glass will partly be absorbed in attempt-

ing to pass through the inner strata but, as the strata are very
                                                 ;

                                                      it,
                                                                   is
                                                                                      it
                                                                                               is
thin, part will get through. This will fall upon the very thin
Ifmica.                                                   " darker," that
                 for this heat, or a portion of     mica

is is is,  more absorbing than glass, this will warm the mica, and

         besides warmed by the gas, by actual contact. The stowage-room

           so small, from its excessive thinness, that the warming by the

         latter mode can by no means be neglected. Between the two
                                                             is

                                                                 it
                                                                          it
           quite conceivable that the temperature may be sensibly higher

         than that of the inner surface of the glass, in which case ought
         to go positively. The reverse movement in cooling explained

         in the same way.

            If this be so, we may expect the radiometer to show some indi-

         cation of positive movement to hot glass.  I     should propose this

         experiment
                 ?
                            :

                                   it

                                             is

                                          it
           Cover the radiometer with a very thin beaker, preferably of

flint glass, so as to resemble the bulb. Heat another glass vessel
                                                 over the whole. Will not the thin
         considerably, and invert

         mica fly begin to rotate positively, and that with promptitude
                                                          a

         which shows that                      by direct radiation from the hot glass,

         so that we have not got to wait till the covers are sensibly

         heated

400 REVERSALS OF RADIOMETER MOTION

                                               IZth June, 1878.

We had best keep perfectly distinct the two different cases

Iof (I) different condition of the two faces of a fly ; and (II) dif-
ferent presentation.  will therefore suppose that in (I) the vanes

are diametral to the bulb, and in (II) the two faces are alike.
In (I), or difference of faces, I did not suppose that the normal

Icondition when the bulb was heated alike all round was for the fly

to revolve negatively. On the contrary, looked on the normal

condition in this case to be for it to go positively. This appears

from my paper in the Proceedings of December 20th. Thus, for

Iexample, to explain the negative rotation of a particular radio-
meter in these circumstances see Sect. 13      had to suppose

a relation of darkness with respect to dark heat, the reverse of

what we should have expected from the relative darkness for

light.
     Suppose a fly with black and white faces, and the order of

absorption for dark heat is the same as for light. When the

radiometer is exposed to radiation from without which gets
through without heating the glass, the blacker face is the more

warmed, and therefore repulsion takes place. When the whole fly
has been heated, and the radiation is then cut off, the fly cools,

the white face is left the warmer, and the fly goes negatively.
     When, however, instead of heating the fly, we heat the bulb

uniformly all round, the fly is colder than the bulb, and therefore

there is or would be if the two faces could move independently

of each other apparent repulsion. The black being more warmed

than the white, there is less apparent repulsion from and there-it
                                                            is it,

                                                                            is
fore the fly goes positively.

      Observe, the relation of positive to negative holds in this way.
When we have an envelope which in all its walls, including the
surface of any fly within, at a uniform temperature, there no
motion. When an exceptional portion of the surface at a higher
is
                                               and the opposed
          is if

                          a
                                 is
                                          is
temperature there     attraction between

surface,  riot too far off. So, by the usual relation of positive

and negative, when a small portion of the surface wall or fly, no

matter    at lower temperature than the general space, there

attraction.

Observe from the circumstances of the case the order of

temperatures in the second of the two cases just mentioned, not
                              Ifin the first.  it
the reverse of what
                                                                                is
                      it                       were we should have

                          is

    TEST BY EXPERIMENTS ON INFLUENCE OF SHAPE OF VANES 401

had a reversion of direction of rotation. In the first case the

order of increasing temperature is wall, white face, black face,
whereas in the second it is not the reverse, but white face, black
face, wall.

    In the case of difference of character of faces, then, I look on

the normal condition to be that the rotation is the same for heat-
ing of bulb as for heating through bulb ; or positive rotation in
the former case, as well as in the latter.

                                                                                  13th June, 1878.

I come now to the case of favourable presentation. In the

normal case the temperature of the fly may be taken to be
Ifuniform throughout.
                                                      the fly be heated, suppose by a red-hot

poker, the bulb having been covered with a glass shade, and the

poker moved round to guard against the heating of one side of the

bulb, the fly goes positively. The object of the shade is to sift the

radiation proceeding from the poker, and so keep the glass from

                                                      is,
                                                              is
being heated, the glass, that of the bulb.

When, instead of this, the bulb heated by hot water or by

inverting over a glass shade, the exceptional temperature, that
               is

                    it
                           is

                                                   ;
of the fly, lower than the general temperature, and the fly goes

negatively. This what takes place with the cupped aluminium

radiometer you gave me with the thicker of the two mica radio-

meters you mention in your paper and, as regards the very first
                                                      ;

motion, even with the thinner one.

To sum up, look on a positive motion as the normal one for
                    I

heated bulb when the effect depends on a blackening of one face,
Ia
but negative motion as the normal one when the effect depends
     is it aI
on favourable presentation.

That being the case, was puzzled by the positive motion of
                       it I
the thin favourably presented mica fly after the single negative
                           I
turn to begin with.               assume the two faces of the fly to be just

alike.         take for granted that was so.                      still do not see how to
                                                      it it
                                                          it

                                                               if

                                                                 I
                                                                      I
                                                                             it, I
account for except be by the explanation gave in my last.it,

am much obliged to you for trying the experiment suggested.

Had the result been otherwise                            would have confirmed that

explanation. As        it         though              does not confirm            yet neither

                             is,

does upset it. It only shows that, that be the explanation,

glass highly opaque, though not so intensely opaque as mica,

for the kind of radiant heat on which suppose the heating of the
                                                      I

s. B. ii.                                                                           26

402 INFLUENCE OF CONCAVITY ON RADIOMETER PRESSURE

mica to depend. This is what a priori seemed more probable

than not, so that all we can say is that either experiment disproves

the explanation, or the alternative (which a priori seemed perhaps
the more likely) is true, in which case the experiment proves

nothing either one way or the other.

   I Idon't feel confident by any means that the explanation
Ithrew out is the true one, though don't at present see any other.
I IPerhaps may call on you some day when happen to be in

London, and see the behaviour of the radiometer ; for often some-
thing is suggested by the sight of the behaviour of an instrument
which can hardly be conveyed by words.

                                                       13th June, 1878.

On looking over your letter Iagain see one expression which

does not seem to me to convey quite the right idea. You say

I" black or favourable presentation is the best absorber of heat."

It is the words underlined that would take exception to. In the

case, for instance, of the cupped aluminium radiometer, the two

faces absorb heat equally, and are at sensibly the same tempera-

ture. The difference is that one faces the bulb and the other faces

the open. The impacts are equally intense at the two faces, but,

as Stoney has explained, the impacts are more numerous on the

side facing the bulb, because on the other side the molecules

driven back from the fly, being as it were projected into the open,
tend to beat back others which were crowding towards the fly. In

the other case, i.e. as regards the molecules that were driven back

from the fly on the other side, they are projected in good measure

against the bulb, and rebound with only the velocity corresponding

to the temperature of the bulb. They are not therefore so effica-

cious in keeping back other molecules as are those that rebound

I Ifrom the side facing the open.                      had in view the case of the fly
         should have explained that

warmer than the bulb.

    It would be a very interesting subject of investigation to take

up some time or other, to endeavour to make out how much of the

transfer of heat to or from a body, enclosed in a good vacuum, is

due to the residual gas, and how much to radiation. Of course as

regards what goes on through the bulb there is no question ; the

          is,                                          conveyed from the bulb to the
                                                   is
question  how much of what

body, or the other way, passes by radiation from the bulb, and

            QUESTION OF MOLECULAR CONVECTION OF ENERGY 403

how much is due to transfer by the gas, i.e., to the fly in the
case in which the fly is the warmer being struck harder than
it strikes back, so that energy is transferred from the molecule to
the fly?

   I mentioned, I think, in a former letter that this has an im-

portant astronomical bearing. It seems difficult at first sight to

account for the high temperature of comets at such a distance

from the sun. It may be that, even in a pretty high vacuum, a

good part of the heat lost by a body within it is lost by way of

transfer to the residual gas, so that, if it could be perfectly re-

moved, the body going on receiving by radiation as much heat as

before, the body's temperature might become much higher than it
could while there was still present even a small quantity of gas.

                                                                                         2Ist June, 1878.

   IWhen saw you last night I did not think of mentioning

to you what had occurred to me, that your beautiful contrivance

of the minute fly which you can put where you please would
answer admirably for investigating the effect of a difference in the

state of the surface.

The plan which seems to me to promise the best is the

following :

Take a plane, or hollow cylinder of some metal, say copper,
Ias being a good conductor of heat.
                                       will suppose a cylinder

chosen. The substance had better be a good deal thicker than

the very thin sheets of metal you employ; in fact it might be
a solid cylinder, except that the time it would take to heat up

a solid cylinder would make the experiment rather tedious. The

Isubstance ought, however, to be thick enough to ensure a practi-
cally constant temperature all round.  should think a hollow

Icylinder or end of tube, say an inch in diameter and three-quarters
of an inch high, might be about a convenient size.  suppose this

cylinder to be mounted as a fixture, with its axis vertical, in the

middle of a bulb of good size, so that the sides may be deemed to

Ibe out of range of direct influence. . The globe contains a minute
fly, which can be moved about into any position.    contemplate

its being held at the height of the middle of the cylinder.

   IBefore enclosure in the bulb, suppose the surface of the

cylinder treated differently on different compartments outside,

                                                              262

404 MODE OF TESTING INFLUENCE OF ROUGHNESS OF VANES

the compartments being separated from each other by vertical
divisions, i.e., the lines of junction being vertical ; thus, for

example, there might be three compartments dividing the circum-
ference into three angles of 120 : one compartment might be
covered, say, with electro-deposited copper, another with lamp-
black, and the third left plain and polished.

     The experiment consists in this : The cylinder is first warmed ;
it might be by candles placed round ; it might be by placing the
whole for some considerable time in a heated enclosure, and after-

wards cooling the bulb with water. The warmed cylinder then

projects the molecules faster, i.e., with a higher velocity, than it

receives them. The exploring fly is now brought round the
cylinder outside to different parts of the circumference in succes-

sion. Opposite the middle of a compartment it will probably

remain at rest ; but according to what you found in your other
experiments, near the edge separating one compartment from the

other, it might be expected to go round; and the direction of

rotation would show from which surface, the various surfaces being

at the same temperature, the bombardment is the strongest. In

the case supposed we could thus compare smooth copper with
rough, smooth copper with lamp-black, rough copper with lamp-

black.

     In this experiment it is not to be expected that the facility of
absorption and emission will affect the result, but rather the state
of the surface as to roughness ; provided, at least, that any bad-
conducting substance laid on is not laid on thick enough to

prevent the temperature of the surface from being sensibly equal

to that of the metal inside.

   If a plain flat plate were used instead of a hollow cylinder, we

might compare two pairs of different surfaces, one pair being on
one face, with the line of demarcation down the middle, and the

other pair on the other face. Possibly experience might show that
there would be room for more than three surfaces in the circum-

ference of the cylinder, or two on one face of a plate. But it
would seem best to try first the smaller number; and if experi-

ence showed there was room for more, a larger number might be
used in another experiment, and thereby the multiplication of
radiometers, in case experience showed that the mode of investiga-

tion was good, might be avoided.

             PRECAUTIONS NECESSARY                      405

                                    25th June, 1878.

     Your experiments with the six disks attached to the same arm

Iseemed to me to differ in one important respect from those

suggested in my last. In your experiments a powder was laid on

a bad conductor, and was exposed to radiation from a candle.

Hence the temperature of the surface depended on several things ;

on the absorbing power of the powder, its radiating power, and
Ithe conducting power of the substance it was laid on.
                                                        should

suppose that the differences of temperature produced by these

different causes operated more strongly than the difference of state

Iof the surfaces in regard to bombardment.
     The experiment suggested was intended to render the result

independent of differences of radiation, differences of emission, and

differences of temperature, so as to bring out the effect of rough-
ness, or powdering equivalent to roughness, by itself alone.

Whether we may rely on the equality of temperature in the
Icase of a lamp-blacked surface  am by no means sure. It is

possible that the particles of soot, being but feebly connected with

the metal below, may cool by radiation to a temperature sensibly
Ifbelow that of the metal beneath.
                                    so the experiment, so far as

regards soot, would be illusory.

   I really cannot say what ought to be the result to be expected,
Iand that being the case don't think the experiment would be

superfluous. Of this, however, I feel pretty confident, that the
Iresults in the cases you refer to, so far at least as can gather

them from the published abstract, depend chiefly on differences
of temperature, and accordingly on actions here sought to be

eliminated.

In the multitude of experiments you have tried there may be

some which give the same information here sought to be obtained ;

but if so, I cannot recall them to my mind.

                                                                                IQth July, 1878.

    It was, I think, known before that a thermometer cooled a

good deal faster in a so-called vacuum than in air of atmospheric
pressure. In air so dense as this, convection currents would no

Idoubt come in for a good deal. The question which don't think

has yet been investigated is whether there will be much difference

between different vacua all pretty high, so that we may neglect

convection.

406 THE THEORETICAL HYPOTHESES THAT ARE INVOLVED

The question How much due to radiation and how much
           it

                           is,
                                                 is

                                                                                                                                                  ;?

                                                                                                          is

                                                             I
to bombardment, when we are working with vacua sufficiently
high to render the results uncomplicated by convection

     Of course you are on your way to investigate this but

thought    might be no harm to observe afresh that this the

most interesting part of the enquiry.

                                            3<M September, 1878.

        found your letter on returning from Scotland late on Satur-1. I
day night. This morning verified your numbers.
           aI
    The formula gave you was founded on certain suppositions;
                   is I
which appeared to me to be very probable, but which have needIis
                                              a
of being confronted with observation. It supposed

           That the friction independent of the velocity. This has
                                                   is
been established experimentally, at least as near approximation,
                                                       it :
for friction of rubbing but don't know whether                                    has been

tried as regards friction of turning on the nearest approximation
we can make to point. This, however, probably of the nature

of rubbing, so long at least as the velocity not sufficient to make
                                            is is
the turning body jog in its support.

    3. 2.  That the resistance of the air          proportional to the

velocity, other circumstances being the same. Of this think
                                                                                  I

with a fair vacuum there little doubt.
           is
                           is
           That the principle of superposition holds good as regards
the force. This probably sensibly true, but has need of being

tested by experiment.                   is  due allowance must be
                                            to say, besides the causes
     In every experimental investigation

made for errors of observation. That

of variation which we recognise, or the methodical variations which
we discover in the course of our researches, there are others which

we regard as casual, such as those arising from errors of reading,
variations in the rate of burning of candle which treated as
                     I
                                     is
                                                      a

                                                       if

                                                                              is
constant, &c. One of the very best ways of distinguishing the

methodical from the casual        by plotting our results.
    If the formulse            you were absolutely true, and the
                     gave      from error, then, we were to plot

observations absolutely free

our results, taking for the two co-ordinates lengths proportional to
the numbers of turns per second for the one, and to the squared

reciprocals of the distances of the candle for the other, we should
find that the dots representing the observations lay in straight
                                                                                  a

line.

          MODE OF SEPARATING ERRORS FROM PERTURBATIONS 407

   I have plotted the observations you sent me rather roughly on

the enclosed paper. The dots are far from lying in a straight line ;
and the question arises, Is the deviation methodical or casual ; or
rather, since there is sure to be a casual element, can we discover

a methodical deviation from a straight line underlying the devia-
tion which we are obliged to regard as casual ?

   IThis important question have not the means of answering,

having got the results of one series only, and that containing only

four observations. It does not seem probable, d priori, that the
true curve, if it be not a straight line, would be so twisty as

Ito take in as a very near approximation all the four dots, and

therefore am disposed to think it probable that there are con-
siderable errors of observation, i.e., variations which at present we

Ican only regard as casual.
        should recommend you to plot in this manner, on any con-
venient scale, a good number of your observations. You will then
be in a condition to judge whether or no there is any methodical
deviation from a straight line.

    If no methodical deviation can be discovered, the best thing

we can do is to draw a straight line by the eye, and obtain our
results by measuring from that. Some persons don't like leaving
anything whatsoever to the judgment of the operator, and would
deduce the constants of the line from least squares, or some

Ianalogous method. In such cases as those we are now dealing

with consider myself the advantage, if any, of least squares much

more than compensated by the expenditure of time it involves and
the loss of the immediate control over what you are about that

plotting affords....

                                                                                                                1st October, 1878.

    I think a good measure of the friction might be obtained

directly by ascertaining the distance of a candle when the fly
would just not turn round continuously, when started in rotation
by applying a vibrating tuning-fork to the support or by some

similar method.

I But in this way, instead of using a single candle, it would,
  think, be much better to use three at angles of 120, or five at
angles 72, the three or five candles being sufficiently nearly at
the same distance from the radiometer to allow us to regard them
all as at the mean distance.... 3 or 5 candles would be a better

number than 4, assuming as usual the fly to have 4 arms, because

408 MODE OF TESTING LAW OF FRICTION OF THE PIVOT

with 3 the system would go through its period 12 times, and with
5, 20 times in one revolution, whereas with 4 it would go through
its period only 4 times ; so that with 3 or 5 there would be com-

paratively no dead points, which with the very slow rotations we

are now considering might vitiate the result of an experiment,
though with a quicker rotation it would not matter, as we should

then practically have to deal with the mean force all the way

round....

    It would be interesting to see whether the measure of the

friction thus obtained would agree with that got by the graphical

Iconstruction applied to the results obtained in the way pointed
Ifout. it did, that would give confidence in the correctness of the

measure.

   IIn the measures you tried should have thought it good to

interpose a glass screen midway, or thereabouts, between the

candle and the radiometer, so as to prevent, as far as may be, the

Iheating of the bulb, which possibly was the chief cause of the dis-
crepancies in your experiments.  think it probable that the
formula I gave would apply, even if the bulb were heated, provided

time enough were allowed in any change of distance of the

apparatus to come to its permanent state ; but so much time

Iwould be required for this as to make the experiments extremely

tedious. To avoid the necessity of all this waiting, should have
thought it was best to employ a glass screen.

     Did you notice whether any difference was made in the results

according as you observed with increasing or with diminishing
Idistances ?
              can imagine its making a difference, unless an

inconveniently long time were allowed between one measure and

the next.

   IOf course the formula gave could not be expected to apply

if the observed rotations were affected by the previous history

Iof the fly.
        shall feel curious to know whether the plotted results indi-

cate a distinct curvature, or whether they are so irregular as

to indicate that the rotations are affected by some circumstance
other than merely the distance of the candle, such, for example,

as what had been done to the radiometer a little while before the

measure was taken.

ALTERNATIVE METHOD    409

                                                                                                2nd October, 1878.

    I have looked at your table on p. 342 of the Phil. Trans, for

1876. An inspection of the numbers shows that, even with the

smallest force there employed, the minute friction is almost
entirely swallowed up. To get a good measure of the friction, at
least one observation requires to be made with the force as small

Ias may be. With this condition laid down, I think the method

mentioned ought to give pretty fair results.
      There is another method of getting it which is perhaps more

accurate, but which involves rather troublesome calculations. It

is to set the fly spinning, suppose by presentation of a candle near
for a very brief time, and having waited till the force arising from
the difference of temperature of the vanes arid case may be deemed
to have gone, so that the fly may be deemed to have been merely

pushed round mechanically, to take three observations of the total

angle turned through and the corresponding times, or else two
such observations and the total angle turned through when the fly

comes to rest. In the first way one observation may be made

pretty soon, a second when the fly is revolving very considerably

slower, and the third when it has almost stopped. In the second

way the first observation may be made pretty soon, the second
when the fly has nearly stopped ; the third is an observation of a

different character.

     Probably the second of these methods would be the more
accurate, but, on the other hand, it would be the more laborious

to calculate....

     In every case one of the observations should be taken when
the fly is almost at rest, in order to make the influence of the

friction more telling.

    On second thoughts I am disposed to think that the first of

the two methods just mentioned would give the more accurate

Iresult, beside being easier to calculate.

     In the graphical construction gave, the friction is determined
by the point of intersection of the drawn line with the axis of y,
the intercept of the axis being proportional to the friction. The

construction shows that, in order to determine this with certainty,

the two points must not both be far off from the origin. One
should correspond to as small an x that as small velocity

as conveniently may be.
is,
                   a

410 NEW FEATURE IN LAW OF RESISTANCE OF THE VANES

                                                                                      3rd October, 1878.

   I Iam much obliged by the plotted curve, which will return

after a little. The curvature seems unmistakable. Further, the

low part seems to tend almost exactly to the origin, indicating
that in those experiments the friction was practically insensible.
We must look, therefore, elsewhere for the cause of the curvature.

Curvature in the direction indicated by the figure would be

produced by a term in the resistance varying as the square of the

velocity. Yet at such high vacua other experiments seem to

indicate that such a force is insensible. Another way of account-
ing for it would be by supposing that in the slow rotations, the

   I
                           I

                                                                                                               is,
force arising from radiation acts to greater advantage ; that
that the longer exposure gives greater advantage than the propor-

tionately longer period of freedom from exposure to radiation gives

disadvantage.

                                                   Ylth October, 1878.

As was returning in the train, next day after seeing your

most interesting experiments, thought of possible ways of con-
fronting further with observation your view that in the instances
you showed me, at least as regards the objects within the dark

space around the negative the fluorescence was produced by the
actual impact of the individual molecules against the glass wall or

other object.
        think very probable that you are right but the thing,

   be so, so new and so important that think very desirable
it                                                 I
                     it                                               ;
  II
                 is     by                                       it
                 it
to check the result             it                                    I
                                                                         I if
                     any means that seems promising.is,

   will mention one which occurred to me in the train, but

doubted whether      was worth communicating to you.                         am

inclined, however, to think                    and the experiment does not seem

to involve any particular difficulty.
        must premise that both theory and experiment agree in the
I

conclusion that there no sensible creeping of phosphorescence,
                     is is
or fluorescence, which but a brief, almost momentary, phosphor-

escence, from the part of the body originally affected to neigh-
                                                   if is
bouring part.                the fluorescence
     That being the case,                              it

                                                                          a
   ; it                                            really produced by
                        if

                                                a
impact, must be confined to stratum of almost infinitesimal

thickness of a thickness, in fact, comparable with the mean

interval between adjacent molecules. But           be produced by

radiation from the incandescent gaseous molecules, which may be

TEST WHETHER THE CATHODE STREAM CONSISTS OF PARTICLES 411

supposed to be excessively sparse in the dark space, but to be
crowded together at the glass where their previously enormous

velocity is checked by the impact, as the medium would not be

likely to have an almost metallic opacity for the radiation, the

fluorescence ought to be excited further down. At least if two or
three different substances were tried, it is not likely they all
would have an almost metallic opacity for these radiations ; and if

we may assume that one at least has not, then the experiment

I am going to propose ought to give a result.
   I Ithink have seen it stated that glass can be blown so thin
as to show in parts the colours of thin plates. It
                                                I                 believe,

done by blowing out bulb till bursts.              it

                                                            iIs,
it                                              don't know whether
                            it

                                      aa

                      I

                                            it
can be done with blowpipe or whether            requires a regular

glass-house furnace.

     But supposing can be done, that affords evidence of excessive
thinness. In that case should propose to try, say, the German

glass, common English flint-glass which give blue fluorescence,
                                                a
and uranium glass. Take a fragment of each              matters little
                                                    it

how small the colours of which demonstrate its extreme thinness,

and mount so as to be exposed as favourably as may be to the
           if
molecular stream from the negative, and, either side by side orit, it
just behind place morsels of the same kind of glass of ordinary

thickness.

Now, the fluorescence be due to actual impact, the fluores-

cent light ought to be as strong on the very thin glass as on the

thick piece of the same kind, and, moreover, the thin pieces ought

to cast perfect shadow. But    if               be due to radiation we should
           a
                                  it

expect that the full amount of fluorescence would not be developed
on such excessively thin pieces, and, moreover, that some of the

rays would be able to get through and affect what lay beneath.

         thought of another way, depending on particular variety
II I                                            a
        ;
                                                            II
of fluor-spar.        think will write to Mr Sopwith, who have
                aI     a is I
little doubt could put me in the way of getting some.II           have

some but what have             partly borrowed, partly in too small

fragments to be useful.

         send you copy of paper of mine, containing some things

bearing on what mentioned.
        found mica so excessively opaque, with respect to the rays of

highest refrangibility, that don't consider the experiment would
be satisfactory with it. That the second test, depending on the
                         I

                                 is,

412 ONLY ALTERNATIVE TO THEORY OF PROJECTED PARTICLES

formation of a perfect shadow, behind which there is no effect.

For mica, of course, not being sensibly fluorescent, the first test

could not be tried.

                                                                              2lst October, 1878.

IYou mentioned to me, the night was at your house, the

result of the experiment with the excessively highly exhausted

tube according as electrodes close together or at the two ends

Iof the tube were used. You also called my attention to the

sharpness of the shadows, \vhich saw and was very much struck

with.

    This sharpness, I felt all along, threw a great difficulty in the

way of any explanation of the phosphorescence that made it

Idepend on radiation from the gaseous molecules. The only way
Isaw of getting over this difficulty was, as endeavoured to explain

in my last, by imagining that the molecules rushing from the
negative had an enormous velocity till they struck against the

wall, and that consequently in the dark space they are compara-

tively speaking excessively few, those attempting to crowd in

Ibeing beaten back ; whereas at the wall itself mean close to it

the molecules might be supposed to be comparatively numerous.

Hence the comparatively crowded molecules confined to the imme-

diate neighbourhood of the glass might act sensibly as lamps,

while those in the dark space would be too few to have any

sensible lamp-like action. The sharpness of the shadows, on this

supposition, would be accounted for by the extreme narrowness of

the stratum to which the crowding was confined. The shadows,

in fact, would not be optical shadows, but rather, so to speak,

molecular shadows, only they would be revealed by an ordinary

illuminating effect.

     This did not seem to me a probable explanation. Your own

view seemed to me the more probable ; only, the effect, if such be

Ithe nature of                   so new that  seemed desirable to put the
                                 it
        ;                              it

      /
                      it,
                             is
explanation to whatever tests one could think of.

         quite agree with you as to what you say as to the matter
within those very highly exhausted tubes being in a non-gaseous

state only should say that was a state in which properties of

matter which exist even in the gaseous state are shown directly,

whereas in the gaseous state they are only shown indirectly, by

viscosity and so forth, which are referred to them referred to

them, mean, in their theoretical explanation.
I

      TESTS OF THEORY OF PROJECTED CATHODE PARTICLES 413

   I look on the ordinary gaseous laws as a simplification of the

effects arising from the very same cause as in the other case,

which simplification is permissible when and only when the

mean length of path is small compared with the dimensions of the

vessel.
You say " Had it been light which radiated from the pole
Ithere must have been a penumbra to the shadow."
                                                  did not

suppose that the phosphorescence was in any case produced by

light which radiated from the pole itself: were the pole sufficiently
Iheated for this, alas ! for the tube. It is the incandescent gas
that     take to be in ordinary cases the source of the light.

And it was on account of the sharpness of the shadow that
ifin these peculiar cases I was driven
                                        the phosphorescence

were due to a lamp-like action to suppose that the dark space

possessed but very few molecules, and that they were crowded

where their velocity was checked by the wall.

                                                                                              22nd October, 1878.

    It has just occurred to me that it would be curious to vary the

experiment with the discharge in tubes in which the dark space
around the negative fills the whole tube, by leaving an air-space
nearly as great as the coil can strike over, between the positive
electrode and the wire going to the coil....

     Under these circumstances would the positive reveal its pre-
sence by any luminous phenomenon inside the tube ?

     What would take place in a small U-shaped tube, so that
a good region around the positive should be well out of the line of
fire from the negative, when the exhaustion was of this very high
order ? Would the positive branch be quite dark ? Perhaps you
have tubes which enable you to answer this question at once.

                                                                                    24^ October, 1878.

   I never had any other idea than that the greenish light was

due to the phosphorescence of the glass. The alternative which

I contemplated was this : Was the phosphorescence excited by

the actual impact of the individual molecules on the molecules of
the glass, which, however probable it might seem from the features
of the light, such as shadows, &c., was a conclusion so novel that
it demanded to be sifted in any way we could think of; or was the

414 PHOSPHORESCENCE NOT DUE TO ADJACENT RADIATION

phosphorescence excited, as we have hitherto      known  phosphor-
escence to be excited, by radiation ?             Where  could the

     The difficulty of the last supposition was,

radiation come from ? The sharpness of the shadows precluded

the idea that it came from the immediate neighbourhood of the

negative electrode, which was far from being a mere point, besides
which the negative glow did not seem specially intense in the

Iimmediate neighbourhood of the negative electrode. The only

way saw for accounting for the sharpness of the shadows on the

supposition that the phosphorescence arose from radiation was by
supposing that the incandescent molecules were projected with

such enormous velocity from the negative that the space around

it was kept comparatively clear ; that there were comparatively

few molecules within it, but that when the molecules struck the

glass they were comparatively speaking arrested ; that there was

a very thin layer of them adjacent to the glass, where they were

comparatively speaking densely packed. Thus, if the molecules
were thought of as lamps, giving out, be it observed, not the green

light observed, but the invisible radiation which is capable of
exciting the green phosphorescence, it is conceivable that the
absence of phosphorescence within the sharply bounded shadows,
the sharpness of which proved to me that they were in some way

or other truly molecular shadows, might be accounted for by the
Iabsence of the thin overlaying phosphorogenic stratum.
                                                         grant

that this explanation seemed decidedly improbable ; but, on the

other hand, the excitement of phosphorescence by direct molecular
impact was a thing so new that any explanation which referred

the phosphorescence to the previously known mode of excitement,

if it seemed fairly possible though not probable, deserved to be

considered.                                              by the

    IObserve speak of the production of phosphorescence

direct impact of molecules, not as a thing at all improbable in the

present state of our knowledge respecting molecules, but merely

as a thing totally new, and as such needing to be defended against

Iall reasonable opponents. Indeed, after what saw in your house

it seemed to me most probable that the phosphorescence was pro-
duced in the manner you suppose ; but anything that held out
a chance of referring it to the previously known mode of produc-

tion seemed to me to demand examination.

My object in proposing to use different kinds of glass in the

       A FOCUS-TUBE SUGGESTED FOR CATHODE STREAM   415

Iexperiment with thin glass that proposed was to give greater

probability that one glass at least out of the lot was not intensely

opaque with regard to the supposed phosphorogenic rays. Were
a glass intensely opaque with regard to the supposed phosphoro-
genic rays, then the full tale of phosphorescence would be produced
within so excessively thin a stratum that a thick glass exposed to
the rays would have no advantage over a thin one as regards the

total phosphorescence produced.
     The improbability of the existence of such intense opacity

which if it did exist would render the experiment inconclusive,

would be increased by using different kinds of glass.

                                                                                               28th October, 1878.

   I cannot help thinking it would be worth while to try, for

negative electrode in one of the very highly exhausted vessels,

a small spherical speculum with a regular optical polish. It

would be of course necessary that it should be provided with

a platinum stem, for the sake of soldering to the glass. Unfortu-
nately the speculum metal would blacken the glass in time, but

this cannot be helped, for aluminium would not take a good

polish. It might be in size and shape something like this

[omitted].

    The object is this : It appeared from the experiments you

showed me that the molecules of gas were projected from the

negative in a direction nearly at right angles to the surface. How

nearly could hardly be judged of by pieces merely shaped by hand.

But supposing the projection to be accurately normal then there

would be a strict focus, free from any aberration, at the centre of
curvature. In arranging for the placing of the speculum in the

vessel, this point can easily be found by seeing where a small

Ifobject must be placed to coincide with its image.

         such a focus free from aberration were found, it would show

that the projection was very accurately normal. Moreover, from

the concentration of the faint deep blue light in a space of

insensible width just at the focus, it might be possible to learn

Isomething about the spectrum of this faint light, which has never

yet, think, been done ; for, though the negative light has been

observed, the light so observed was that of the negative light

where it is bright, that
       is                                     after the commencement of the halo
                                         is,
which  formed at some distance from the negative.

416 IMPORTANCE OF TESTS OF CATHODE STREAM THEORY

It is not, perhaps, likely that the projection would be so accu-
rately normal as this would imply ; still, if it were, some interesting

Ithings might come out of it.      think it might be worth while

    An experiment occurred to me

to try, seeing that it is only to make an observation with apparatus

you already have.

   If there were such a narrow stratum as occurred to me as the

only way of explaining the sharpness of the shadows on the

supposition that the phosphorescence was excited by radiation,

this stratum might be expected to emit a little feebly illuminating

light of very high refrangibility, as well as strictly invisible rays.

It might therefore be detected if specially looked for, though

it might escape notice otherwise.

   INow, should propose to take a tube which has got a flat

object, such as a piece of mica, intended to cast a shadow, and

holding the eye in the plane of the screen, or rather the least
shade to the side of it towards the negative, to look along the

surface for a very narrow stratum of faint deep blue light, which,
if existing, might be expected to be increased in brightness by the
Iforeshortening.
                  do not expect that such will be found ; still, as
Iyou have the tube there it may be as well to look for it.
                                                            think

it most likely that the phosphorescence in the cases you showed

me is really produced as you suppose ; but, as this is a new mode

of action, it is well to try any other possible explanation, even

though not very probable, that presents itself.

   II remember a year or two ago, when you showed me a tube

that you had got, think, from Geissler, that would not let a

discharge pass, being surprised at the rings of green light. I did

Inot doubt that they were due to the phosphorescence of the glass,

but, supposing them to be due in some way to radiation, did not
Isee why they should be so sharp.
                                   suppose you yourself at that

time did not think of molecular impact as being the cause of the

phosphorescence.

                                                                                               29tk October, 1878.

   I am greatly obliged by your letter dated the 28th, but posted

to-day, in which you describe the result of the experiment I

suggested with the film of the uranium glass.

   I Iam very glad that made the suggestion, for it has been the

means of bringing out some new and very important facts.
     The cause that occurred to me for the brief duration of the

          PHOSPHOKESCENCE PROVED TO DECAY BY DIFFUSION 417

Iphosphorescence of the film was precisely that which on reading

to the end of the letter found was what had occurred to you,

namely, the heating of the film. In my paper on the change

Iof refrangibility of light, in the Phil. Trans, for 1852, have

mentioned, at p. 532, that glasses and certain sulphides which
were sensitive i.e. phosphorescent while cold, lost their sensi-

Itiveness on heating, which returned when they got cold again.

There can, think, be no manner of doubt that this is the cause
of the cessation of the phosphorescence of the film almost imme-

diately.
     So far, we have had only a new manifestation of what was

already known. But now we come to a new and very important
result, the superiority in certain cases of the film to the plate.
This, in the first place, affords a perfect demonstration that the

Iphosphorescence is not due to radiation. The experiment, which
   thought might bring a high additional improbability against the
stratum-of-lamps theory already unlikely enough yields a result

which I had not at all anticipated, and which is perfectly conclu-

sive against that supposition.

    But it does more. It demonstrates for the first time the

transference to a finite distance of even that short-period vibration
on which the phosphorescence depends.

                       29 October, 1878.

I wrote my last rather in a hurry, being anxious to catch the
Ipost.
        said, therefore, nothing about the experiment designed to
Ishow, as imagined, the positive light by withdrawing the dazzle,
if such a term may be applied to so feeble lights, of the negative
Ilight and the phosphorescence resulting from it.
                                                   understood
Iyou to say, when was at your house, that all the luminosity came
I Ifrom the negative.
          daresay      misunderstood you; but it was
with a view to give the positive every chance that I proposed the

experiment, thinking that at any rate when well screened the

positive light would show itself, especially if a spark were used.

The result is in accordance with my expectation.

The screening of the uranium glass plate by the film can only

be reconciled with the supposition that the phosphorescence is

due to radiation, by the supposition that even a plate, or rather

film, that is thin enough to show the colours of thin plates is yet

thick enough to absorb all the rays which produce the phosphores-

s. B. n.                                           27

418 SUPERFICIAL CHARACTER OF THE PHOSPHORESCENCE

Icence. This alone would be not absolutely impossible, for know
Ithat that kind of glass is extremely opaque to the rays of very high

refrangibility, though how opaque exactly am not prepared to
say. But the superiority, under any circumstances, of the film to
the plate save only when both are heated together and the plate
is the first to cool, which does not apply to the observations we are
dealing with seems to me to be perfectly decisive against the
phosphorescence being caused by radiation.

    It is very interesting to see the immediate falling off of the
phosphorescence of the film, though it falls in completely with our

previous knowledge. But it is intensely interesting to see the
superiority, in certain circumstances, of the film, and this contributes
a material extension to our previous knowledge.

                                         7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.

                                                                      30 October, 1878 (?).

     DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,

           IYour second letter arrived after had finished the

experiment suggested by your first letter.

    A tube was made having a thick piece of uranium glass sealed

Jand blown on to the end. The uranium glass was about 1 millim.

thick in centre and tapered off at the sides to the ordinary thickness
of the blown tube. In the middle of the tube was a perforated
disc of aluminium, and the electrodes were so arranged that a spot
of phosphorescence would fall on the centre of the uranium shield.

     The tube was exhausted to the best point for phosphorescence,
and on passing the current a sharp spot of phosphorescent light
formed on the uranium glass. There is no possibility of doubt
that the phosphorescence is entirely on the inner surface of the
glass, the outer surface not phosphorescing at all.

    A confirmatory observation is the following: The uranium

glass contained a little lead, and the blowpipe flame reduced a
little lead on the outer surface, so that it was not uniformly clear
but patchy. The inside on the contrary was quite clear. When
the spot of light was moved about by a magnet it was uniformly
bright on the inside, on whatever part of the uranium shield it
happened to fall, but looked at from the outside it was obscured
or bright as it passed under the dark spots or the clear places.

      The effect of parallax is very evident, and leaves no doubt
as to which side of the glass phosphoresces.

      NORMAL EMISSION PROVED BY FOCUS-TUBE                                        419

IYou say you think uranium glass is not specially suited for
testing this point.   have sent the tube by parcel post for your

acceptance, and  if,                        you think          worth while to try

                        I

                           I
                                       it,
                     on trying                       it
                                                       it
one made of ordinary glass will willingly try the experiment.
                                                              5
But from what you say don't suppose                            will be necessary.

                                                                 November, 1878.

         was not aware that you had got so good a figure to your

aluminium cup in the highly exhausted vessel. It seems nearly,
if
not quite, to supersede the necessity for regular speculum.
  II                                                   a

      would just, however, call your attention to one thing. You

say the focus, such as was, with the electric bombardment was
                      it

much further from the metal than the solar focus. This only                 is

Ifwhat was to have been expected.           the cup were truly spherical,

and the molecules were projected in a strictly normal direction,
if

the focus for the bombardment would be at the centre of curvature.

The principal focus, or focus for parallel rays, at only half this
                                                               is is
distance from the metal. The centre of curvature                        is  the optical

focus, not for parallel rays, such as those from the sun, but for an
object itself at the centre of curvature. It
                                                                 easily found by

holding an object, such as the point of a penknife, so as to coincide

with its image. If the distance of this point from the mirror be

wanted accurately, the two should be viewed through a lens, and

the distance of the object from the mirror altered till object and

image are seen through the lens in focus together.

    It depends upon the degree of goodness of the image in your

aluminium mirror whether would be worth while to try one of
Ifspeculum metal regularly polished.it
                                it          the image was so good, as

would appear from your description, perhaps hardly would.
                                            I
Yet, on the other hand,                     might be that regularity of
                                               it
bombardment,  if      be regular, would be interfered with by a
                  it

degree of irregularity of surface which would but little affect the

reflection of light. So that, on the whole, am disposed to think

that a regular speculum would be worth trying. To make the

effect stronger, the section of should be a good substantial part
                                it

of semi-circle, say an arc of 60 or 90. There would not,                           I
a

imagine, be any difficulty about grinding so large an arc. With

a mirror of such great an arc as this, there would be greater

aberration for the solar image, but there would be no aberration if

for an object at the centre of curvature; and the molecular

                                                              272

420 DOES MAGNETIC DEFLEXION DEPEND ON ABRUPTNESS ?

Iprojection were strictly normal, which think it is more likely

not to be than to be, then there would be no aberration in the

bombardment focus.

There is another experiment which it would be well to try,

and for which you already have the apparatus. The tube you

showed me, where the deflection by a magnet is marked by teeth

of white paper, would be extremely well fitted for the purpose,
because the deflection is large, and is further magnified by the

shadow being received very obliquely on the glass.

     The experiment is this : Instead of holding the electro-magnet
in the hand lay it on a fixed support, choosing a position which

shall give as great a deflection as may be. For the same reason

the electro-magnet should be worked by several cells. Marking

the place where the shadow falls i.e. its edge try various

arrangements of the contact-breakers of the current which works

the coil, and the effect of intercalating or not a small jar in the
secondary circuit. The question wilt the place of the edge of
the shadow be affected by any of these changes? You have shown
it
        it

                                        ?

                                                                is,
to be affected, as we might confidently have anticipated, given

that there was any effect at all, by the strength of the magnetism.
Will be affected also by varying conditions as to the power of
               If the molecules are projected with different
the discharge

velocities in different circumstances, we should expect that the

higher velocities would show a flatter trajectory. For though

the deflecting force might be expected to increase as the velocity,

would have to increase as the square of the velocity in order
it

                  I
                      if

                                                   is

                                                                                                                        ?
                                                                                                                8
that the deflection should be as great at high as at low velocities.

     By " medium "                                                                      December, 1878.
luminiferous ether.
pressures, and even   assume you mean the residual gas, not the

                     For what a medium In a gas at ordinary
                     till we come to high exhaustions, the pheno-

mena are the same, as we had to deal with a continuous portion

of matter the fundamental properties of which are ascertained by

experiment, for example, the property that the pressure varies

as the density, and so forth. For simplicity's sake we accordingly

make abstraction of the individual molecules, and feign to our

imagination continuous matter, which, when considered as the

vehicle of some process going on, say of the propagation of

sound,  is  called a medium.

        CATHODE STREAM UNRESISTED EXCEPT BY COLLISIONS 421

     Now observe particularly. The "medium" is nothing more
than the assemblage of the molecules contemplated from a
simplified point of view. When we are dealing with phenomena
in which we are obliged to contemplate the molecules individually,
as in your late experiments, we must not speak of the medium
as well. The medium, in fact, is nothing but the assemblage of
molecules, for which latter the ideal " medium " may be substituted
in the simpler cases, but not in the cases you are now dealing with.

     The only way in which a molecule impelled from the negative
could be retarded by the " medium " would be by being influenced

by the other molecules. But if it were so influenced it would be

driven out of its rectilinear path, or curvilinear when a magnet is
in action, whereas your experiments show that the molecules retain
their paths, or very many of them (the molecules) at least.

Extracts from Remarks of Detail on Mr Crookes's Paper, of Dec. 3,
      1879, " On the Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure,
      and the Trajectory of Molecules"

   IPage 21. The experiment as originally contemplated it

would not necessarily have been quite decisive. Had phosphores-

Icence been found under the film it would, so far as see, have

been decisive against the impacts. But the mere absence of
phosphorescence underneath would not necessarily have been
quite decisive the other way. Substances are very commonly
extremely opaque with respect to rays of the very highest
refrangibility that we have been able to follow experimentally,
and possibly this might have been the case with the glasses tried,
which therefore possibly might have stopped the phosphorogenic
rays, even though the thickness was so small as to show the colours

of thin plates. It was the unexpected result of a superiority of

the film in certain cases that was quite decisive against the
radiation theory.

    Page 35. I don't think the constancy of curvature at different

distances along the path, when the magnet is moved so as to have
the same position relatively to the point where the curvature is
sought, is favourable to the supposition of diminution of speed by
resistance.

     ...It is the hits in comparison with the misses during the

time, whatever it may be, that the molecules take to traverse the
vessel, that you are concerned with.

422 EXPLANATION OF TIRING OF PHOSPHORESCING POWER

                                                                                        23 December, 1878.

I should not expect that you would find any alteration of the

part of the surface of the glass that was so unmercifully pelted

by the molecules, that would reveal itself under the microscope.

But there is one very delicate test for detecting alterations on a

surface, which I may as well mention. It is to use very bright

light, and to endeavour to extinguish it by a Nicol's prism, altering

by trial the inclination, the azimuth of the Nicol held in the hand,

so as to get the nearest approach that may be to complete

extinction.

This requires that the second surface of the glass be covered

with some sort of black varnish, to stop the second reflection.

If stray light can be sufficiently well excluded, the best source of

light is the disk of the sun. The observation however, awkward,
                                             is,

                                                              it

                                                                                a
unless the surface be tolerably flat. Perhaps the flat flame of a

paraffin lamp, seen nearly edgeways, might answer.
     My notion, as endeavoured to explain when you told me of

the result, that the molecules capable of vibrating in such
             I I is
manner as to give the green phosphorescence are, asif I                  were,

bowled over.                itshould expect a film of almost infinitesimal

thickness to be in a state somewhat analogous to that of a hard-

drawn wire.   think probable that the phosphorescence would

take place again the glass were heated even short of redness.

                                             28 December, 1878.

As you had already succeeded in fusing platinum,                       not to
                                      it,
be wondered at that you should have succeeded in fusing Germanis

glass by the same method.                     if

The result, however, would enable you to try whether fusion,it,
                                                             it
or heating to the point of fusion, will restore the phosphorescing
power of the glass after has been battered out of by more          a is
                                I it
ready method than that had contemplated.

Probably you had not this in view at the time when you made

the experiment, as you do not mention whether the glass had had

the phosphorescence knocked out of    and,   so, whether on

cutting off the induction-discharge when the glass fused, allowing

the glass to become quite cold, and then letting on the discharge

again, the glass phosphoresced as at first.

The experiment with the gold leaves very remarkable, and

would be well worth communicating as you contemplate.

POSSIBLE ELECTRIC ATTRACTION OF CATHODE STREAM 423

                                       25 January, 1879.

     The difference between the ray of emitted molecules and what
Newton supposed to be a line of corpuscles is that the latter is

capable of exciting the sensation of light when received directly
into the eye. But nobody now-a-days believes that what Newton

supposed to be a line of corpuscles is really such.

     So much for your letter of the 20th. In that of the 21st the

result as to the deadening of the phosphorescence is very similar

Ito what you found before, as mentioned in a former letter to me.

  agree with you in thinking that it probably does not depend on
the direction of the impacts.

     But the shifting of the line of molecular discharge when the

current is first turned on is a result quite new, which may help

to throw a good deal of light on the whole phenomenon when it is

further investigated.

The conjecture which strikes me as the most probable, so far

as my present light goes, is that the effect depends in some way
on an alteration, perhaps an electrification, of the wall of the tube

by the impact of molecules coming from the positive. Accordingly,

that it is undone by a subsequent impact from the negative.

   I think this idea might be tested by using a U-shaped tube,

with an inclined plate electrode, and mica screen with hole similar

to that in your figure at one end of the U, an electrode of any
form (say a plate) at the other end of the U, and, if it be feasible,
Ian electrode near the bend in the first leg.
                                               will call these
F Eelectrodes D, E, ; D being behind the mica screen, at the end
Fof the other leg, and in the first leg near the bend.
   If Ethe experiment be now repeated with D negative and

positive, the question is will the same effect be produced now

that the place of the spot is out of the direct shot from the
positive ? If produced, will the shift of the green spot be more
Iftardy ?
           it be shifted, will the state of things be restored now

that the region of the green spot is out of direct shot from the
Enegative when
                is made negative and D positive ?

The object of the third electrode, F, is to enable the previous

experiment to be repeated in the same tube when desired, by
Fmaking
           the positive instead of E.
I should not suppose that it is necessary that the electrodes
FE and   Ishould be plates.
                             should suppose that wires would
Isuffice, which suppose would be more easily fixed in.

424 ORIGIN OF CATHODE STREAM : ELECTROTONIC STATE

One of the referees suggests to try a negative plate of this

shape in section : [wedge-shaped].
     Would there be two sets of molecular projections, one perpen-

dicular to each facet, which are parallel to one or other of two

lines (in section) i.e. two planes, or would the projection be
perpendicular to the electrode as a whole ?

The same suggests another experiment, which is this :

Connect two electrodes with the coil, and a third idle electrode

with earth, and with an electroscope or electrometer. Now let

the coil play, and then break the earth connection of the idle

electrode. What tension will the electrometer indicate ? The

idle electrode is supposed to be so placed that the molecular

stream is directed upon it.

The same referee suggests trying a flat electrode set obliquely

to the plane of the screens. Would the molecules stream through

Ithe hole so as in the figure ? After what you have done think

it pretty certain that it would.

This suggested to me another experiment: Make a good

earth connection between the negative pole of the coil and the

Inegative electrode of the tube, which are connected with each
other.  presume that the phenomena will be as before, though

now the positive electrode alone is in tension. The inner terminal

of the coil had best be chosen for the negative.

                                                                   27 January, 1879.

     The interesting results you have mentioned with the idle pole

Ifall in very well with the supposition made respecting the cause

of the shifting of the stream of molecules in your former experi-

ment.

    IThat the result of the earth connection, as had suggested,

I Iwould be negative is what had expected, as mentioned in a
Iformer letter. And now may mention an argument I was prepared

             it,

                               is,

                            II
to found on  that on the negative result, which avoided
                                                                   is
mentioning before, as in case should be wrong in assuming that
                                                                    I
the result would be negative, should have had my labour in vain.

Imagine, then, that you had a perfect vacuum in your tube,

and that the negative electrode was put to earth, and the coil let
play. In consequence of the earth connection there no tension

at the negative electrode. Neither there current; for everything
             a
                                               is

                                                                a
indicates that perfect vacuum would be perfect non-conductor.

IDLE POLE : TEST OF ITS ELECTRIFICATION                    425

Neither is there any sensible statical electricity at the negative

electrode, at least if the positive be a mere wire, and be at the

other end of the tube....

     The negative electrode is simply idle, as might be a piece of

metal lying on your table. It is merely in a position in which

it is ready to do its work when the circumstances arise.

     Now imagine a very minute quantity of gas let in. The tube
will no longer be a perfect non-conductor, and the phenomena

which you have been investigating will arise.

But inasmuch as the presence of the molecules is a condition

precedent to the passage of a current, unless we assume that the

state of things at first when the current is let in is quite different

from what afterwards takes place, we cannot suppose that an

electric vibration of the negative electrode is the cause of the
projection of the molecules. In fact, only for the passage of the

molecules the current could not be, and we can hardly therefore

regard "the electric vibrations of the negative electrode" as the

cause of the observed behaviour of the molecules.

    It would be well to test by direct experiment the character, as

to positive or negative, of the electricity with which the gold leaves

diverged, which can be done in a moment with a stick of sealing-

wax or glass rod excited, though there can be little doubt what
the result would turn out.

                                                                                      5 February, 1879.

    I am much obliged by your communication of the experiment
with the idle pole. It seems to me that the effect of the touching

is to make the idle pole practically the same as if it were faintly

negative. I would suggest the following variation of the experi-

ment: Instead of touching the idle pole, connect it with the

negative pole through a very high resistance, the proper amount

of which is to be found by trial; perhaps a moist thread, or a

thread rubbed with black-lead, would give about the right degree
Iof resistance ; but this will have to be found by trial.
                                                           should

expect that with a suitable resistance a similar penumbra would

be obtained.

Another variation of the experiment that seems to me to be

likely to be instructive is this : Instead of connecting the idle
pole with the earth, connect it with the inner terminal of a Leyden

jar, uncharged, of which the outer coating is connected with the

earth. You will probably find the penumbra at first, but after

Ia time it will disappear, or at any rate get much less, but expect

426 STEP-UP TRANSFORMER FOR CONTINUOUS DISCHARGE

Idisappear altogether. Now break the connection with the jar by

an insulating handle, and the jar will expect be found charged

Ifwith a moderate positive charge.

         the changes with the jar are too quick a larger one should
be used ; if too slow, a smaller.

                                      20 May, 1879.

The experiments you so kindly showed me to-day impressed

on me more than ever the great advantage that there would be in

obtaining, if possible, some substitute for Mr De la Rue's great

battery ; and what you said last night, after the lecture was over,
about the srnallness of the amount of electric current which actually

passed through those very highly exhausted tubes, leads me to

think that it is quite possible that a substitute could be obtained
I Iwithout much trouble.
               forget whether ever mentioned to you
I Ithe plan thought might succeed, but at any rate may as well

mention it now.

   I should propose to try as large a condenser as you have

at hand say a Leyden jar, or a series of such jars connected
collaterally. To render everything perfectly definite it would

be as well to connect the outer coating with earth, as well as the
outer terminal of the induction-coil. This is also connected with

the electrode of the tube which you wish to be negative. The
inner terminal of the coil, which is made positive, leads to a point

at such a distance from the inner coating, or a knob connected
with the inner coating of the jar, that the positive discharge can

strike across, but the negative return discharge from the jar is
unable to pass, the distance being too great. The inner coating
of the jar is also connected with the positive electrode of the tube

through a wet thread, which at first had best be taken too long,

for fear of injuring the tube, and afterwards reduced as experience
indicates is safe and expedient. There is also a break in the

connection, either a contact-breaker or an interval which can be

spanned over by a wire when desired.

     The bridge being broken the induction-coil is let to play, and
when the condenser is filled as full as the coil can fill it the bridge

is made. I think it probable that a not extravagantly large

condenser would hold electricity enough for the discharge through

If Ithe tube to last long enough to allow the eye to follow the series
of phenomena.  so, feel convinced that it would be a great
gain in the study of what takes place. At present the changes

SUGGESTION FOR AN ELECTRIC VALVE  427

are so quick that the eye merely perceives that the discharge is

not steady, but the series of changes are too quick to follow.

By commencing with a sufficiently long thread there would

be no danger of injuring the tube by an explosive discharge of the

condenser ; and indeed, unless the condenser were very large, there

would be no danger that even a sudden discharge of it would

injure the tube. With too long a thread the discharge would

probably be too feeble to be of use, but one would learn how far
it is safe to shorten the string.

                   30 May, 1879.

     As you are taking so much trouble in preparing a condenser

Iof large capacity, I will make a suggestion which think may

tend to increase its efficiency, and at any rate is not a serious

matter to try.

   IFor charging the jar propose to place the positive terminal

of the jar coil, which should also be the inner one if the coil be so

wound that there is a difference in the tensions of the outer and

inner, at a sufficient distance from the knob of the jar to prevent

the positive discharge which strikes across from returning back

again. This, however, will prevent the highest tension to which

the condenser can be charged from being nearly equal to what the
Icoil could give.
                   believe the condenser could be charged higher

Iby a little instrument easily constructed, and which would,
   expect, act as an electric valve.
    IFor this should use a tube with a flat negative electrode,

the form is a matter of indifference, but it should be of fair size,

though it need not be large, and a positive electrode formed
of a wire filed or ground to a sharp point, and then coated with

glass or enamel fused on. The tip is then cautiously filed or

ground so as just to expose the merest speck of the metal, or else,

when it is nearly exposed, the glass might be pierced by an electric
I Idischarge.
do not know which would answer best, but should

be rather disposed to try the purely mechanical process. The

Itube should not be exhausted very far; should think 1 or 2

millimetres of mercury would be about the thing. It should not

be exhausted to such a degree that an uncovered positive electrode

has the discharge no longer confined to one point on it. At what

degree of exhaustion that takes place you, with your experience,
will be able to say.

     The electric valve being placed in the path of the discharge
from the positive terminal of the coil to the knob of the condenser,

428 EMPLOYMENT OF VALVE ON INDUCTION COIL

I imagine that no other air-break will be required, and that the

valve will prevent the return of the current that passed through
it on its way into the condenser ; and as the tube offers compara-
tively little resistance, it will be possible to charge the condenser
higher than when there was a considerable air-space which the
discharge had to leap across.

   I think M. Gaugain used an exhausted tube as an electric
Ivalve, but am not aware that he used a protected positive
Ielectrode, which imagine will be found to be an improvement.

                          2 June, 1879.

...It is possible that you may have tried a Leyden jar, and

Ifound that the capacity was too small to enable you to make
anything of it.  should have thought, however, that even a jar

of tolerable size would be enough to show whether there was any

likelihood of success.

Mr De la Rue's great condenser gave a discharge which lasted

for some minutes. Now, on the one hand, a fraction of a second

would be enough to show whether there was an effect, even to

allow of its study to a certain degree ; and, on the other, the tubes

to which that great condenser of Mr De la Rue's was applied were

such as gave good conduction, and therefore required a copious

Isupply of electricity. With a view to the employment of a

condenser, asked you once whether much current passed in your
highly-exhausted tubes, and you told me that very little passed ;

Iat least I fancy that that is what you told me, though now that

  think of it I think you said something about the whole of the

discharge of the coil as passing.

    In any case it would be well worth while, if you have not done

so already, to feel your way with the use of such high-tension

condensers as you have at hand, before proceeding further.

                        20, MORNINGTON ROAD, LONDON, N.W.

DEAR  PROFESSOR STOKES,                7 June, 1879.

       I have tried your  experiment with condensers        made

of Leyden jars of different sizes and separate or connected

together, but can get no results worth recording. Where little

electricity passes (slow discharge through wet string) the phos-

phorescent light is too faint to see anything distinctly, and if

If Ithe string is shortened the passage of the current is too quick.
    you can suggest a better way shall be glad to try it.

DESIRABILITY OF UNIDIRECTIONAL CURRENT  429

     The valve acts very well*, and seems almost entirely to cut off
the little amount of + in the discharge of the coil, and vice versa.

Perhaps two valves would make the action certain.

     Will not valves on the coil answer the required purpose, as the

condenser seems difficult to arrange properly ?

    I have had a visit from Mr Garnett. He asks for the two

experimental tubes (yours and Professor Maxwell's) to take down
to Cambridge for you to experiment with. He will come for them
in about a week. Besides these tubes would you like any valves

or other apparatus made ? There is plenty of time.

                                                                                      9 June, 1879.

I certainly feared that the capacity of even two or three

Leyden jars put together might not be sufficient to get any
Iresult. However, as
                      knew that great resistance was offered

Ito the passage of the current in those excessively high vacua,
   thought it possible that the quantity passing might be such as

could be furnished by a good-sized jar, at least so far as to give
a duration which could be observed with a quick eye. From what

you tell me of the result with several jars, I fear the quantity

would be too great for a high-insulation condenser of reasonable

capacity.

   IIn thinking over your letter, however, another mode of making

the experiment occurred to me, which would think allow you to

obtain the results, though it would not be so luxuriously comfortable

Ias a high-insulation condenser of very great capacity.
       will first describe the experiment in relation to the pendulum

Iexperiment suggested :

     Screw home the ordinary contact-breaker of the coil, and lead

the primary current through a mercurial contact-breaker instead.

If you don't happen to have one suitable for the purpose, it would

be very easy to rig one up by using a lamina of elastic steel some-

what larger and stiffer than a piece of watch-spring of the common

dimensions. A platinum wire is attached perpendicularly at one

end of the lamina, to make contact by dipping into mercury. The

lamina is gripped in a vice, and allowed to vibrate. The time of

   I* On May 31 be had written, " I will make a valve for the induction spark.

don't know Gaugain's, but the one you describe is not unlike Reiss's which seems
to answer well. Reiss used a disk and a point as poles in a tube which could
be exhausted to different degrees. The point was not however protected. This

will be a great improvement. Prof. Edlund (Phil. Mag., Ser. 4, XL. 30) has tried
many experiments with this valve."

430 STROBOSCOPIC METHOD OF OBSERVATION

vibration can be regulated by the length left outside the vice.

The time should be regulated so as nearly, if not quite, to

synchronise with the time of vibration of the pendulum. The
height of the mercury surface should be regulated so as to come
to the point of the platinum in the position of rest of the lamina,

in order that the intervals between successive breaks of contact

may remain the same assuming the vibrations isochronous, which
will practically be the case nearly enough as the amplitude of

vibration dies away. It would be convenient that the vibrations

of the lamina should be a shade slower, rather than a shade faster,

than those of the pendulum, in order that the phenomena may be
seen in their natural order rather than the inverted order, with

reference to the direction of motion of the pendulum. The primary

current is led through the vice and the mercury. The mercury
Iis covered, as usual, with alcohol or turpentine
                                                                                     mean oil of
Iturpentine. Alcohol, think, is what is generally used. It might

be well to introduce a valve into the secondary circuit, to prevent

the attention from being distracted by the phenomena attending

make contact.

     As a practical matter the direction of the primary current is

not a matter of indifference, as, if it be wrong, explosive discharges

occur at the surface of the mercury and alcohol, which scatter the
Ifluids about.
                        forget which way the current should pass, but
I think the mercury should be negative. It is easy to try, and

then make it right. Hence               if,for convenience, current reverser
                                                is            a
                                                                       is
should be placed in the primary circuit, the mercury break ought

not to be included in the part of the circuit which                                  under its

command, but in the remaining part.

Everything being arranged, and the pendulum tube being in

the secondary circuit, the current                  let play. At each break the

discharge passes for very brief time, but at each successive break
it
                                      very little further in advance in its course,
           a
                             is
                                 a
                                     a
the pendulum

since very little longer time than that of one vibration of the                      I
pendulum has elapsed since the last break. In this way think

   would be possible to follow the successive phases of the pheno-
menon depending on the position of the pendulum, somewhat in
the manner of the toy called " the wheel of life."

do not recollect for certain the details of Maxwell's experiment,
III
                                                              still in your hands*.
             it

                    is
and have not his report to refer to, as                       it

But think                                                         is
                                                                                 is
                        to try the effect of an idle pole which temporarily

                                        * See infra, p. 433.

INFLUENCE OF A SECONDARY ELECTRODE NOT STATICAL 431

placed in tension by an independent coil. If so, it would be well

to introduce mercurial breaks into both primary circuits, arranging
their lamina for nearly, but not quite, synchronous vibration.

Both vibrations might here with advantage be a good deal quicker

than in the former case, where the time of vibration was conditioned

by the swinging time of the pendulum.

                                                                                           18 June, 1879.

   I IWhen wrote about the vibrating slip of steel had in my
Imind another plan which did not mention, thinking that the

Islip would be easier. But as you apprehend some difficulty about

the slip, may as well mention the other, as it may be well you

should have the two plans before you. It is simply to employ a

very small extemporised pendulum, one arm carrying a bent arm

of platinum wire dipping into mercury covered with alcohol, and

Iso adjusted that in the position of rest the wire just touches the
surface of the mercury.  think a sufficient pendulum for the

purpose could be made out of a couple of fragments of a knitting

needle and a cork. A leaden bullet would serve for a bob.

                                                                                                   18 August, 1879.

     As to the influence of an inserted piece of metal, which may
be made an electrode at pleasure, on a molecular discharge that
brushes by, the idea is very tempting that it acts by the attractions
and repulsions of the statical charges of itself and the molecules

which rush past. Such was your view, and such at first was mine.
But Maxwell, in his report on a paper of yours, gave a calculation

from which he inferred that, under no reasonable suppositions as

to magnitudes involved, could the influence actually found be
accounted for by the supposition that it depended on statical

Iattractions. To put this point to a further test suggested to

you an experiment with a Leyden jar, which you were good
enough to try with some additions of your own, especially dis-
charging the jar while the experiment was going on.

      The aggregate results, and especially the absolute indifference
of discharging the jar, proved to my mind conclusively that the
effect did not depend upon statical charge acting merely as such,
but depended on a current from the electrode when made such.

     Mr De la Rue's battery shows the thing beautifully. When
the electrode is unconnected it produces no effect, notwithstanding
that it quickly becomes strongly charged with positive electricity.

432 SPECTRUM OF A FOCUS-GLOW IN THE DARK SPACE

When connected with earth it becomes a feeble negative electrode,

to the extent considering only the permanent state of things,
and not any merely temporary charging up of the battery, &c.,
with a statical charge that the leakage of the battery permits.

When it is connected with the negative electrode a similar effect,
but far more violent, is produced.

                                              20 August, 1879.

It struck me in reading the paper that there was a very

Iimportant, as it seemed to me, observation that you mentioned to
me, and of which nothing is said in the paper.     am not sure

whether you are quite certain of the result.

You dwell almost needlessly on the non-exhibition of the

spectral lines of the gas in the green light, which none of us

attributed to anything but phosphorescence, but have omitted

to say anything of their non-exhibition in a case in which a priori

we should have expected them.

The focus-shaped luminosity appears to be formed under two

totally different conditions. In the first place, with electrodes of

certain shapes, such as a ring, or a cup, or a hemi-cylinder, as

the exhaustion proceeds from that which first shows anything of

a good negative glow, which at first closely invests the electrode,

the glow as it expands gets the part which is convex towards the

electrode, becoming more and more curved at the tip, till at last

it presents the form of something like a cusp rounded off. This,

however, is merely the ordinary glow tending, in one point, to

turn itself inside out. This form of luminosity somewhat focus-

shaped was known before, and it naturally presents the spectral

characters of an ordinary glow. It belongs to the outer boundary

of the dark space.

As the exhaustion proceeds this passes away with the rest

of the glow, which becomes extravagantly enlarged. We now get

the new focus-shaped blue glow which you have discovered, and
Iwhich belongs to the interior of the dark space.
                                                   take it these

two luminosities are quite distinct in their nature, not with standing

that when the first disappears and the second appears they occupy

nearly the same place. Now you told me that the second blue

glow showed nothing of the spectral lines of the negative glow

of the gas ; yet we must attribute it in some way to the presence

of the gaseous molecules.

MAXWELL'S ANALYSIS OF RADIOMETER PHENOMENA 433

I think this is a very important point to bring out, if you feel

quite satisfied that the failure to see the ordinary spectral lines

Iof the gas did not merely arise from the feebleness of the light.

        am not quite certain of your meaning in Sec. 520, as printed.

You say "blue light has disappeared, and no lines are detected...."
IDetected in what ?
                     took you to mean in the green light, which

we know is due to phosphorescence.  To judge by the words, you

can hardly mean in the other blue light which has taken the place

of the former blue light that has disappeared, inasmuch as you

say nothing about this other blue light.

   I attached so much importance to the spectral character of the
Inew blue light that often thought of calling at your house to see
Iit through a prism with my own eyes, and try if could satisfy

myself that the failure to see any lines did not merely arise from

the extreme feebleness of this very feeble light.

APPENDIX A. PROF. CLERK MAXWELL'S REPORT ON
MR CROOK                   " On   Repulsion resulting from Radia-
tion" Parts  ES'S PAPER          (Read February 10th, 1876.)
                         IV.
              III. and

THE experiments recorded in these papers relate to bodies placed
in a vessel as completely exhausted as possible. These phenomena
are more regular than those observed by Mr Crookes in less highly
rarefied air, and the forces are more powerful.

     Mr Crookes has now succeeded in making the phenomena so

regular that they can be subjected to the test of measurement and
comparison. He has therefore made several different kinds of
instruments for the measurement of repulsion force.

    Sect. (128). A differential radiometer, consisting of two pith

disks, one white and one black, at the ends of a horizontal rod
suspended by a silk fibre.

     (135) The same with a bar of pith, one end white and one
end black, with magnet and mirror, suspended by a silk fibre and
controlled by a magnet.

     In both these instruments light is incident on both surfaces,
but the black surface is repelled more than the white.

     In the first instrument there is equilibrium when the stronger

specific action of the black surface is counteracted by its greater
distance from the source of radiation and the greater obliquity of
the rays. This can take place only when the source is very near
the instrument.

     In the second, the directive force of the magnet tends to bring
the instrument back to zero, and enables it to be used when the

s. B. 11.                                          28

434 RADIOMETER NOT ACTUATED BY RADIATION PRESSURE

source is at a considerable distance, so that the rays may be con-
sidered as parallel.

     (143) The rotating radiometer, or " Light-Mill." This is also
a differential instrument, the sides of the vanes being alternately
black and white, so that the effect of radiation is to drive the mill

round. The final velocity of rotation depends on the friction of

the pivot, and whatever other resistances may act on the exhausted

chamber.

    It appears from the experiments that the velocity is inversely
as the square of the distance of the source ; and as it has been

already shown that this is the law of the pressure on a surface at
       "itisfopllroowpsoretiiothnearl
rest,                                  that the resistance   to the motion of the "light-
                                        to its velocity, or  that the pressure resulting
mill
from radiation is different for surfaces at rest and in motion.

     The most important experiments with the light-mill are those
which show the effect of the change of temperature of the instru-

ment.
     When the instrument is cold, and luminous radiation falls on it,

each vane goes with its white surface foremost. This Mr Crookes

calls the normal or positive direction.
     Under other circumstances the black surface goes first. This

may be called the negative rotation.

(166) An aluminium light-mill, while being heated, went            4-
(167) Afterwards, while cooling, it went
When the bulb was cooled by evaporation of ether                   +

       surrounded by a heated glass shade

       ,, surrounded by hot air from Bunsen's burner

       heated by experimenter's body

    [At (165) the effect of the hot glass shade on the brass light-
mill seemed reversed, but the statement is not quite clear.]

These results lead me to think, what indeed Mr Crookes at

Section (195) seems to hint at, namely, that the effect depends on
the difference of temperature between the white and the black

Ifsurface.
           we admitted the corpuscular theory of light, we might
suppose that the force was due to the impact of the corpuscles.
This force would be greater at the white surface, from which the
corpuscles recoil, than at the black surface, where they are merely

stopped. According to the electro-magnetic theory of light there
is a pressure in the line along which light is propagated. This

would be greater if (as near a reflecting surface) light is propagated

both ways, than near a black surface, where there is no reflected

light. Hence neither of these hypotheses explains the phenomenon
of the black surface being most repelled.
    But if we suppose                         the                  on the temperature
                                       that   on   force depends    on " thermometric
of the surface (that                     not       radiation, but
       I
                                   is,
heat"), think we can explain most of the facts.

BUT MUST DEPEND ON DIFFERENCES OF TEMPERATURE 435

For a black surface is known to absorb and to radiate more

than a white one, even when the radiation is not luminous.

Hence when the radiometer is exposed to radiation from

sources of high temperature, the black surfaces absorb more,

become warmer, and are "repelled."
When the radiometer is hot the black surfaces radiate most,

and become cooler than the white ones, and the motion is negative.
When a hot glass shade is put over the instrument, or when heated
air rises round it, the heating effect acts on both white and black
surfaces, but probably most on black ; but the radiation of the

black surfaces through the transparent hot body cools them more
than the white ones, and the motion is negative.
Cooling the instrument by ether renders it less able to radiate,

and the black surfaces are now most warmed by radiation from

without, so that the rotation is positive*.
     Mr Crookes's view, as expressed in (195), agrees with this up

to a certain point. He admits that in normal rotation the black
surface is hotter than the white, but he attributes the motion to

ptheeratruardei.atioNnowfroifmthtehesambleacrkadsiautrfioacne,    owing    to its higher   tem-
                                                                falls on  a white and a   black

surface, the total radiation from the white surface will be greater
than that from the black, because some of the radiation is reflected

directly by the white surface, whereas what falls on the black is
absorbed, and the radiation of the black is only that due to its

own temperature.
It is not, therefore, because the black surface radiates more,
but because it is hotter, that it is more repelled.
    With respect to the cause of this repulsion                           Mr Crookes (130)
has shown clearly that it is not evaporation of                           water, as in Prof.
Reynolds's illustrative experiment (Proc. R. S.). Indeed Prof.
Reynolds himself shows that at the low pressure obtained by the

mercury pump, and at ordinary temperatures, liquid water cannot

permanently exist.
     But the experiments of Kundt and Warburg (Pogg., 1874 5)

show that in the best exhausted vessel there is still enough matter

to offer considerable resistance to motion and to conduct heat.
(They seem, however, to have succeeded in exhausting a vessel of
small capacity till the passage of heat was not affected by the kind
of gas with which it was originally filled.)

      Hence any inequality in the pressure, arising from evaporation
or any other cause, may continue to exist in an exhausted vessel

as long as it would in a less rarefied gas.
     But whatever may be the cause of the phenomenon, the

determination of its magnitude, as compared with the radiation
[*                             of the greatest value as a means of testing

                       it,
                           is
which occasions

          On these points, cf. Prof. Stokes' remarks, supra, pp. 377, 386 seq., and
his paper reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. pp. 24-35.]

                                                              282

436 MAXWELL'S SUGGESTIONS FOR EXPERIMENTS

the various hypotheses. Mr Crookes has made great progress in
the construction  of measuring  a"ppoafratMusi.cheHlle
methods the "     Torsion Rod                           has  employed three
                                                        and    Coulomb, the

Horizontal Pendulum of Zollner*, and the Torsion Balance of

Ritchie.

     Of these the best adapted for quantitative measurement is
the Torsion Rod proper, in which the force to be measured is
balanced against the torsional elasticity of
The instrument described at the beginning     tohfePasurtspIeVnsiisonoffibthreis.

kind.

     [Some calculation follows, showing that the data of this kind in
the paper do not suffice to deduce the pressure on the disks.]

     The horizontal pendulum, in which gravity is the principal

force, is liable to great alterations of zero if the instrument is not
rigidly fixed. Hence Mr Crookes abandoned it.

    The torsion balance described at the end of Part IV is a
common gravitation balance, in which the final adjustment is
made by the torsion of a fibre instead of by a rider. The
consistency of Mr Crookes's results is a proof of his wonderful
skill in the construction of such apparatus.

     He has ascertained that the pressure due to weak sunlight,
on a certain day, was 0'009 grain per square inch. This is ^gyVoir
of an inch of mercury, or 0*089 dynes per square centimetre.

     This is an important measurement, but what would give it
more value would be a simultaneous measurement of the heating
power of the sun's light by an actinometer, the light being subjected
to the same absorbing media in its path to the actinometer as in

its path to the pith.
     The experiments in which the instrument itself was brought
to various temperatures are important, and should be extended.

    But if the disks themselves could be constructed of two

substances separated by a small interval, the temperatures of the

two surfaces might be    separately altered (.          a copper disk  at its
                         with a hole in it had
    Thus if a pith disk
back, the back of which is blackened, then if the copper disk
were heated by means of a burning glass, the rays passing through
the hole in the pith, the copper would be hotter than the pith,
and the whole might move towards the light ; and other experi-
ments might be devised with compound disks to determine
whether temperature or radiation is the cause of repulsion.
   IThese remarks are not intended to depreciate the value of

Mr Crookes's papers, which consider worthy to be printed in the
Transactions, and likely to become important documents for the

history of Science.
     No explanation is given in the paper of the mode in which the
Morse instrument was made to register the revolutions of the
radiometer as shown in the drawings.

* I think it was first used in America.  [t Cf. supra, p. 888.]

MAXWELL'S ANALYSIS OF CATHODE STREAM  437

APPENDIX B. PROF. CLERK MAXWELL'S REPORT* ON

       MR CROOKES'S PAPER, " Contributions to Molecular Physics
       in High Vacua!' (Dated March 27, 1879.)

THIS paper contains a further investigation of the discharge from
the negative electrode, some of the properties of which were

fdescribed in the paper read December 5th.
     The author has tested two suggestions made by one of the
referees of the former paper, to see whether the direction of the
discharge is really as it seemed to be, normal to the surface of
the negative electrode at the point from which it is projected, or
whether this appearance depends on the general lie of the surface.

     To test this Mr Crookes made an electrode of corrugated

metal, every part of which was inclined one way or the other
to the plane containing the bottoms of the furrows. The discharge
from this was in two series of plane strata normal to the sides
of the individual furrows, and no sensible part of the discharge
was normal to the plane formed by the ridges. The other test
was by placing a plane negative electrode obliquely behind a mica

screen with a hole in it. In this case also the discharge through

the hole appeared to be normal to the surface of the electrode.
      These experiments confirm the result of the former paper

that the path of the discharge, when undisturbed, is normal to
the surface of that part of the negative electrode from which

it proceeds, and is independent of the position of the positive
electrode. The experiment with the corrugated electrode shows
that several sheets of the discharge may cross each other without
interfering much with each other.

     Another experiment (607) shows that two parallel and con-
current streams of the discharge repel one another.

     The action of magnetism on the discharge is examined more
fully. The results agree with those of the former paper in
showing that the force which acts on the molecules is in the same
direction as that which would act on a conductor placed in the
line of the discharge, and carrying a current of positive electricity
towards the negative electrode.

    In other words, the molecules are deflected in a direction

normal to the line of discharge and to the line of magnetic force ;

and if we consider the molecules as moving in part of a circle, the
direction in which they are moving round the circle is opposite to
the direction of a positive current which by flowing in a circuit

embracing the whole field would produce the actual magnetic
force. This is made very clear in paragraph 609, but in pars. 616

and 017 it is shown that in certain cases a discharge in a low

     [* This Report was communicated by Prof. Maxwell's permission to the author,
who expressed his thanks and his desire to have an opportunity of showing the

phenomena to Prof. Maxwell.]

    [f Of. supra.}

438 RETURN CURRENT OF POSITIVE IONS

vacuum, which certainly moves in the same direction as a

conductor would move, travels sometimes the same way as the

molecular discharges, and sometimes the opposite way.
Now the low vacuum discharge was between a point above
and a ring below, a magnet being placed vertically below the
point. The lines of force proceeding from the magnet diverge
as they ascend, but the case is that of a current forming the
generating line of a cone, and the rotation of the discharge is the

same as if it had been carried in a copper-wire.
But in the high vacuum both poles were in the axis, so that

the discharge proceeding from the negative pole was always from
the axis, whether it proceeded from the upper or the lower pole,
and therefore the direction of rotation depended on the vertical
part of the negative force at the negative pole. As this is weaker
at the upper pole, perhaps the rotation would not be so fast when
the upper pole is negative. The phenomenon depends entirely
on the manner in which the discharge leaves the negative pole,
and not on the manner in which it gets beaten to the positive
pole. Hence the rotation should be in the same direction whether

the positive pole is above or below the negative pole.

    In par. 617 it appeared to me that the rotation in the high

Ivacuum went the opposite way, in all cases, to that described in

par. 609, but in this may be wrong.
     In par. 596 two idle poles were introduced between the
electrodes, one being connected to earth and the other to an
electrometer. When the electrode next the electrometer was

positive there was an instantaneous deflection, probably due to
induction. When this was discharged to earth the electrometer
became again charged positively, but in a gradual manner. When
the electrode next the electrometer pole was made negative the
effect was more doubtful, but the author seems to think the

induction positive.
May not the charge of the idle pole be mainly due to positively
charged molecules which are working their way from the + to the
electrode, and which take no part in the brilliant display of the
negative discharge ? This might be tested by trying whether the
positive electrification of the idle pole is strengthened by being
placed near the positive electrode, and weakened by an idle pole
connected to earth placed between it and the + electrode ; and
secondly, how is it affected by the negative discharge being made
to play on it or being deflected from
a                                      say by magnet....
                     a

                                                   by
                                                  it,
                                                                           a
To test the action of an electrified pole on the molecular
discharge, metal plate might be placed with its plane parallel
to the line of discharge, or, still better, two idle poles might be
placed one on each side of the line of discharge, and these might
                                       Holtz's machine.
be electrified one + and the other
This would give powerful electric field with the force every-
where in one known direction, and by the use of magnets the

QUESTION OF ELECTRIC ATTRACTION OF CATHODE STREAM 439

direction of the discharge between the two plates could be varied
at pleasure, so as to make it play against one or other when they
Iare connected to an electrometer.
       Ihave confined my remarks to the dynamics of the discharge,
because  think that magnetic and electric tests are the best

known     means    of investigating the  discharge while   in  transit.
       proved    to be in some respects    like a current      regards
It is                                                      as

magnetism, and in others, though less clearly, like a charged body
Ias regards electric force.
         have only now to recommend that this paper be printed
in the Philosophical Transactions.

PROF. STOKES ON MR CROOKES'S PAPER (dated March 27, 1879).

Page 2, par. 590. That the phosphorescence is due to a

molecular stream seems satisfactorily established ; but whether

the cause of the molecular stream is simply the ordinary repulsion

of statically electrified bodies is far more doubtful. It may be so,

but it cannot by any means be regarded as established. The

theory that the molecules act simply as carriers of electricity, and

are repelled from the negative simply by the ordinary repulsions

due to statical electricity, is very tempting, but does not explain

all the phenomena. I mentioned already that Prof. Maxwell had

calculated the deflecting force of a magnet as compared with that

of a statically-charged idle electrode, on the supposition that a

charged molecule behaved like an element of a current, and found

that the former was as nothing compared with the latter ; whereas
experiment reveals the former, and shows apparently nothing of

the latter.

   IAgain, in the experiment suggested of connecting Maxwell's

idle pole with a Leyden jar instead of an electrometer, you told
me that no difference was perceived as to the phosphorescence in

the first action from the action after some time, and no difference

made by discharging the jar by the finger. The presence of the
jar, however, in either case did make a difference, the shadow

showing a penumbra, which you consequently discovered to be a
Ifluctuation.    remarked, I think, at the time that this seemed to

show that the effect of the jar depended not upon its charge, as

one might expect on the statical repulsion theory, but upon the
current out of it*.

    [* It was only in vacua so high that the conductivity no longer screened off. the

electric field that electrostatic deflexion has since been observed and measured.]

440 IDLE POLE ACTS BY CURRENT NOT POTENTIAL

The relation of the charge as ordinate to the time as abscissa

may be expressed rudely by a figure something like this: [omitted].
    Experiment shows that the jar after a time is positively

charged. Therefore the current in, represented by the ascending

line, is not at first balanced by the current out, represented by

the descending line. As the charge mounts up the current out
increases, till after a time the mean charge is sensibly constant.

Discharging the jar by a touch reduces the state of things at once

to the initial state. The curve would more properly be like this...

   IThe effect, think, shows very clearly that the observed result

is not due to charge, but to the in-going currents by which the

idle pole acts as a negative electrode, and is referable to the class

of phenomena which are otherwise manifested in the mutual

Irepulsion of molecular streams.
P. 9, par. 603.  cannot think this explanation correct.  The

experiment with the Leyden jar seems to me to prove that the

Ideflection of the shadow depends upon current, not charge.

mean upon current, not upon potential.

     But the thing seems to me to admit of being put to the test

of a crucial experiment. If the deflection depends upon current
Ithe shadow of the idle insulated pole is what may call the normal

shadow. When the pole is connected with earth it is no longer

idle ; currents pass through it to and fro, and the negative current

deflects the molecules, enlarging thereby the shadow.

According to your explanation, when the pole is unconnected

the molecules are inflected, and the shadow consequently contracted.

When the pole is connected with earth the tension is eased, and

the shadow regains its natural width.
IThe experiment would suggest is this:
IP. 23, par. 631.                       ...
                   think Becquerel's    observation      of the

spectrum of rubies rendered phosphorescent by radiation should

here be referred to, not so much as a matter of priority (for

Becquerel's phosphoroscope is pretty well known, and the descrip-

tion of a particular spectrum calls for no special notice in relation

merely to priority, unless it is something particularly remarkable)
as because it affords the best proof yet obtained of the identity

of the phosphorescent light, whether the phosphorescence be

produced by radiation, as in Becquerel's experiment, or by the

molecular stream process, which the film experiment proved

conclusively to be due to something different from radiation.

April 22, 1879.

PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION OF GAS AT VERY LOW PRESSURES 441

                                                                                                        Dec, 24, 1880.

     MY DEAR PROFESSOR STOKES,

         I have the pleasure of sending herewith my long promised

paper on "the Viscosity of Gates at High Exhaustions."...

      The investigation was commenced at your suggestion nearly

five years ago and it has occupied much of my time since. During

Ithis Autumn have repeated a good many of the determinations,

I Ifinding my laboratory convenience much better than hitherto.
        think have thrown a little new light on Maxwell's Law ;
and it is a great loss to Science, and a matter of deep regret to

me personally that he is not with us to give his sound criticism

on the paper.
I Iam rather nervous as to the results of your scrutiny.
                                                          have
Iindulged somewhat in theory towards the end, but not think to

a greater extent than the facts warrant.

                                          Jan. 3, 1881.

     Your letter received this evening relieves me of some anxiety.

It would certainly be by far the best for you to write a few pages

Idiscussing the facts given in my paper*. I felt this all along but

  did not like to suggest it to you knowing how much your time
is occupied. Now you propose to do this, my plan of action is very
simple ; it would be best to leave the paper as it stands, making

the few verbal alterations and adding a paragraph giving the

times of oscillations for different pressures in the gases worked

with.

   I will start to-morrow getting some of the times of oscillation.

DEAR MR CROOKES,                          2 Feb., 1881.

                    Before your apparatus is finally dismounted, though
whether before or after the experiments on the effect of tempera-
ture, does not matter, there is another investigation which might
be borne in mind.

   I think it may be concluded from your experiments that a gas

is not physically defined merely by its density under a standard

pressure and by its coefficient of viscosity. Up to high exhaustions

these two constants appear to be sufficient for its definition, so

that if they are given the chemical nature of the gas is a matter

of indifference. But something else must apparently come in, in

    * This formed the Appendix reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v.
pp. 100-117.

442 PROJECTION OF METALLIC PARTICLES IN DISCHARGE

order to define the gas even as regards its mechanical let alone
its chemical properties when we come to very high exhaustions.

     The question arises, is this something a function of the

molecular weight alone, of the density under a standard pressure ;
or is this not the case ?

                                                               7 Feb., 1891.
   I am extremely obliged to you for all the trouble you have
Itaken about the question which asked.
         II think you have not quite understood the notions had in
Imy head.
           had no idea that the metallic dust projected from an

electrode would be made to glow so as to show the metallic lines

by a subsequent discharge, or even by a subsequent part of the
same discharge, when of such a kind as to show a finite duration
when viewed in a small mirror turned by hand. My notion was

that if we could get an instantaneous discharge, and the vacuum

         were a decidedly high one, then at the moment of the discharge

the lines might be well shown.
         I recollect Mr De la Rue a long time ago showing a discharge
Iat the Royal Society the appearance of which I well recollect,

though have forgotten some of the details of the arrangements.
         IHe had an egg-shaped glass vessel,
                                                               should suppose 6 or

         8 inches in the longer diameter, with electrodes at the ends, the

         negative electrode being very large. The vacuum was a high one,

         I think a carbonic acid vacuum, that carbonic acid well pumped

         out and then most of the residue absorbed by caustic potash.

             do not recollect what the electro-motor was, but from my
         recollection of the intervals between the discharges think
         must have been a battery (see later); do not think can have

         been an induction coil. Yet a small number of cells would
I                               I is,
        I                                       it I

                                                                        it

         hardly, should suppose, have been sufficient to force the dis-aI
         charge through, and do not recollect that there was any very
         large battery there. Be that as may, the appearance was this.
         Immediately after a discharge all was dark then minute tufts of
         faint bluish light were seen at various points of the large negative
                                it

                                                            ;

         electrode. These increased in intensity, being however but feeble

         at the strongest, till sudden discharge took place. The chief

         visible feature of the discharge was tuft of green light, of dazzling
                                a

                                              I
         brilliancy, from one point of the large electrode, the particular
         point varying casually from one discharge to another. The electrode
         was probably copper. There can be little doubt think that the
         dazzling tuft would have shown well the metallic lines.

BEST CONDITIONS FOR METALLIC SPARK SPECTRA  443

   I have been thinking since that the electro-motor must have

been an electrifying machine, used to charge up a Leyden jar, the
coatings of which were connected with the two electrodes.

   I do not recollect for certain that the large electrode was the
negative one ; only, from the nature of the case I think it must

have been.

     The faint spots of bluish light denoted of course electric

leakage going on across the glass vessel while the jar was being

charged up to a tension that enabled the discharge to take place.

     From some of Mr De la Rue's later work, it would seem that

when the exhaustion becomes very high, the main part of the
energy of the discharge is expended in getting the electricity from
the negative electrode into the gas, whereas when it is more
moderate it is expended in getting the electricity across the gas.

Hence to concentrate the energy as much as possible on the first

obstacle, which we might expect to be favourable for bringing out

the lines of the metal, we should apparently aim at two things ;

one, a decidedly high exhaustion, the other, confinement of the

discharge to or nearly to a single instantaneous discharge of the
Leyden jar, or other condenser used. With the improvements in
the Sprengel pump that you have introduced, the first condition
can be secured with certainty. The exhaustion of course should

not be so very high that we are unable to force a discharge across.
The second would seem to be attained with greatest certainty by

charging the jar by means of a frictional or influence machine ;
for we could thus go on charging the jar till the tension was
sufficient to drive the electricity across, without almost immediately

filling the jar up again. If an induction coil were used instead of

an electrifying machine, it would seem to be necessary to choose a
jar of suitable capacity ; for if the capacity of the jar or other
condenser were too great, when it was charged by the break-contact

current the tension at its maximum would be too low to strike

across, and if it were too small there might be two or more discharges
of the jar for one break of contact, with a current between, like
what you have without any jar at all intercalated ; or even if there
were but one discharge of the jar it might be followed by a current

through the exhausted space having a duration rendered appreciable

Iby viewing it by reflection in a moving mirror.

         do not think it would be necessary to examine the spectrum
of the metal. The eye could tell whether there was any such
brilliant metallic tuft as was shown in that experiment of Mr De

444 EXPLANATION OF LIPPMANN's COLOURED PHOTOGRAPHS

la Rue's. If there were, it would be sure, I think, to show the

spectral lines of the metal strongly. And the conditions for
obtaining it appear to be a high exhaustion and a jar which has

to be charged up to a rather high tension before it will discharge
itself across the vacuum, and which is large enough to give a

strong discharge when the discharge does take place.

P.S. Pray do not trouble further about these experiments.
II am greatly obliged to you for the trouble you have taken.
                                                                    do

not recollect whether the electrode where the brilliant tufts were

Ishown in Mr De la Rue's experiment was positive or negative.

  merely guessed that it was negative from the fact of its being

large.

                                8 April, 1891.

   IMany thanks for your very interesting inaugural address*,

which have just finished reading. You have brought together
the different parts of your great subject in an extremely attractive

I Iway.                   read your paper (see p. 9) that in a

        had no idea till

stratified discharge with compound strata, differently coloured for

different component members of a group, the differently coloured

strata gave spectrum indications of different substances, mixed

together in the rarefied gas.

                                                                                              7 May, 1891.

    It occurred to me this morning that what you showed me of

the effect of breathing on the Lippmann's coloured photographs
of the spectrum completely falls in with, and in fact confirms,

Lippmann's explanation.

Supposing that the rays which impressed the plate were

        I

                  it
                              it,

                               it

                                         is
                                                                      is

                                                                                                                                               ;
incident perpendicularly on     the interval between the plane

strata of reduced silver would be half a wave's length in the

medium (gelatin think) which was the vehicle of the silver salt,
or about 3/4ths of the half wave-length in vacuo. When you

breathe on the plate      imbibes moisture, almost immediately

through its whole thickness as  so thin, and consequently

swells. Hence the interval between the silver planes increased

and therefore to find the interval which suits the red light you must

travel to a part of the plate where the interval had been less, such

suppose as previously suited the green. Hence the reflected colours

will march onwards in the direction from the red to the blue, and

        * As President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers.

      QUESTIONS AS TO THE NATURE OF ARGON                        445

will go back again when the moisture evaporates, and consequently
the film contracts.

   I feel little doubt in my own mind that Lippmann's explanation

is the true one.

      4, WINDSOR TERRACE, MALAHIDE, Co. of DUBLIN,

                                  14 Sept., 1894.
I was lunching to-day with the Provost of Trinity College,
Dublin (Dr Salmon), and I met among others Professor FitzGerald.
I Iasked him about Lord Rayleigh's discovery of a new gas.
                                                                 had
Ibeen travelling about in Germany, and when returned from the
IContinent (on Aug. 14) went immediately to the Isle of Man.
ISo have been out of the way of getting scientific information.
I got some further information about the new gas from Professor
FitzGerald. From a brief allusion in some newspaper I imagined

that in the electric discharge it showed only a single line, but

FitzGerald told me there were a lot of lines coinciding with the

lines of the line-spectrum of nitrogen. This might be due to an

impurity of nitrogen in the new gas, or it might be due to the

fact that what was deemed to be nitrogen contained the new gas,
or it might be due to the new gas being allotropic nitrogen and

Ibeing decomposed by the electric discharge. With reference to

the second possible supposition, asked him how the nitrogen
with which the comparison was made was prepared. He did not
know, but said that the nitrogen spectrum used for comparison

Iwas prepared by you, or rather (which is not necessarily the same
thing) that the photograph was taken by you.       should be glad

to know therefore whether the nitrogen used was prepared directly,
by the decomposition of some compound of nitrogen, or was prepared
from atmospheric air by removing the oxygen, vapour of water, and

carbonic acid, the residue being assumed to be nitrogen.
I Iam to leave this on Monday for Cambridge.
                                                   suppose you

have by this time made a good deal of progress in the photography

of the spectra of the phosphorescent light of the rare earths you

have been studying.

DEAR  SIR GEORGE STOKES,                        Sept. 17, 1894.

       I have only just returned  home  after a stay with        my

family in Wales, and therefore have done no work with the spectra

of the rare earths for some time.

   IJust before left London Ramsay brought me two vacuum

tubes, one containing the new gas and the other pure nitrogen.

446 PKEPARATION AND SPECTKUM OF ARGON

I took some photographs of each of them and sent them to him.

IHe was in a hurry to have them at the B.A. so had no time to

take any measurements of wave-lengths. The nitrogen tube gave
the well-known nitrogen spectrum and the new gas tube gave some
of the strongest nitrogen lines rather faintly, and some other strong
and sharp lines in places where no nitrogen lines occurred on the
other plate. The inference is that the faint nitrogen spectrum
was caused by a little impurity of nitrogen remaining in the new
gas, and that the other lines belonged to the new gas. Ramsay
wrote to me afterwards that he had made the measurements.

The new gas was prepared from the atmosphere by absorbing the
bulk of the oxygen with hot copper, and then passing the residue
over heated magnesium which absorbs the nitrogen. The residue
was then purified from oxygen, carbonic acid, excess of nitrogen,

I&c., by the best available means. Ramsay told me before took

any spectra that there might be a little nitrogen remaining.

   I intend to repeat the experiments and compare the new
Ispectrum with that of oxygen, carbonic acid, and other gases which

might possibly be present. Also want to get very accurate
measurements of the wave-lengths of the new lines.

LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

25 Sept., 1894.

DEAR MR CROOKES,

     IThanks for your kind reply to my letter. assumed leave

to forward it to Professor FitzGerald for his perusal. The account
Iof the spectrum of the new gas which
                                       had read in some

Inewspapers led me to imagine that it showed a very definite line,

in, think, the blue, which does not occur in nitrogen. But the

Iaccount got from Professor FitzGerald in conversation gave me

a different idea. He told me that on comparing the spectrum

of the new gas with that of nitrogen it seemed to him that the
same set of lines were seen in the one as in the other. He

mentioned that Ramsay pointed out to him one line in particular,

but he (Prof. F.) could not satisfy himself that it was absent in
the spectrum of nitrogen. He said it was in the same place as a
band in the spectrum of nitrogen In returning your letter he

says that he has hardly at all worked with the spectra of gases, or
indeed photographic spectra in general, so that you are a far better

judge of the evidence than he could be. It seems to me that the

              THE VARIOUS POSSIBILITIES                        447

evidence in favour of one or other of the two rival suppositions,

that the new gas is (1) a new element, or (2) allotropic nitrogen,
turns mainly on the interpretation of the spectra obtained. The
account which you give of the spectra seems to favour (1), that
which FitzGerald gave me to favour (2). The density which
Lord Rayleigh gives for the new gas is just what we should have
thought the most probable on the supposition that the gas is

allotropic nitrogen. It seems most probable that oxygen being-

denoted by 2 and its density being 16, ozone is O 3 with a density

24. So nitrogen having a density 14, we should expect as most

likely a density of 21 in allotropic nitrogen, if such a thing there be.

                                             Sept. 26, 1894.

DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,

        I think the preponderance of evidence is rather on

the side of the elementary character of the new gas, but there

Iare strong arguments in favour of the ''allotropic" view. My

spectra were sent off to Ramsay before had had time to examine

them carefully. That FitzGerald found many of the N lines in
Ithe new gas lines can well imagine, as it was contaminated with
Ia little N.
              am now fitting up the apparatus to make some of

the gas for myself, and will then take careful photographs of it

and N.

                                             June 24th, 1895.

Mr DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,
              I want to trespass on your kindness to ask if you

can give me an improved formula for interpolating lines in my

photographed spectra.
IThe formula am using is
              (w-*i)wX2 ^
2s                                        n

   is
            3X

                                                   (2r?

                                                       Xi2

                                                -f
                                                          (3n

                                                                           2, )2
                                                                               p. 3X'2

                                        J
                                                                                                                2X
                                                                                               is
        \and are the wave-lengths of two known lines,n^)

where

n and n^ are the distances of the two known lines from datum,

n the distance of the one unknown line from datum, and

the wave-length of the unknown line.

This formula was tested by W. Gibbs, and the results recorded

by him in the Am. Journ. Sci. 1870, vol.     45. He found the

error in the calculated wave-lengths to be about millionth of

448 IMPROVED INTERPOLATION FORMULA FOR WAVE-LENGTHS

Ia millim., while myself have found a discrepancy of 1 millionth

of a millim. between the calculated and known wave-lengths of
certain cadmium lines.

   I IIn the photographs of the spectra am now observing have

many easily separated lines whose wave-lengths differ from those

of their neighbours by less than l/4th of a millionth of a millim.,

Iconsequently it appears to me that to get the greatest value out

of my work must employ a formula which will give me a result
correct to at least one more decimal point than the above.

                 LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

Pray excuse an earlier answer.          28 June, 1895.

                                IOn Monday went to London,

and slept there. Tuesday through Cambridge to Ely, and slept

there. Wednesday home, latish. Thursday to London, and back

late.

    I have looked into Gibbs's paper, where he gives numerical

Iexamples of the applicability of the approximate method pro-
I Iposed. Of course made numerical trials myself, but did not
Iprint the results, and did not care to keep the trials, so that

Gibbs's figures were useful.

    Since I proposed the method at a meeting of the British

Association*, the determinations of wave-lengths have increased in
accuracy, and increased exactitude is required. Still the Gibbs

Inumbers show that the approximate method proposed is almost
sufficient, so that a very small correction will suffice. If a curve

be plotted with the squared reciprocals of wave-length for abcissae,
and the refractive index for ordinates, it is nearly a straight line,

I

                it

                           is

                     I
                                          it
                                          I it,

                                                   I
                                                                                           a
                                                  I
and my method was founded upon taking  for moderate
interval in the spectrum, as a straight line. If this be not accu-

rate enough, as  not quite, will doubtless be sufficient to

take one term more in the ordinary interpolation.                                             should

   If had done the numerical reduction myself, think

have started by taking the squared reciprocals of the wave-lengths,

or of so many of them as was going to employ, would then

have found by interpolation the squared reciprocals of the wave-

lengths for the new lines, and having thus formed a table of
squared reciprocals would have formed the table of wave-lengths

* On the whole subject see Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. pp. 293-5.

       ADVANTAGEOUS CONDITIONS FOR INTERPOLATION                                        449

from that. If as be the squared reciprocal, and if we confined our-

selves to two terms in the interpolation, we should thus get

                          -#2 = n<> n-<->#'!+n- n-,^3 .................. (1),

which is identical with the formula you used, only the numerical

calculation is carried on by turning the formula you used upside

down.

The result of this you find to be not quite exact enough,

though very nearly so. To make the small correction we must

take in a third line of known wave-length. This should be chosen
Ifwell removed from the selected known lines 1 and 3.
                                                                                    chosen

in the interval 1 3, it had best not be greatly distant from the

                          however, very wide latitude of choice in this
1
       3

                  if

                               is,
                                             a
middle. There

respect. Thus the line chosen for correction divided the interval

         in even so unequal ratio as to the correction which1

am going to name E, which serves as the foundation for the3,J

corrections for the new lines, would be of what would have
                                                                           it

                                                                                        I

been the selected line had been in the middle of the interval.
it if
But will be better think to take the third known line outside
                          a 3,
the interval              and some way from the nearest end line or
               1             I                                                      1
                                                                                              3.

Thus           lay at distance outside half as great as the interval
1
       ?3

      if

           it
       the correction E (which                     is  the fundamental small quantity

that we wish to emerge from errors of observation) would have

been thrice as great as the line had been chosen in the middle
                          1
of the interval                   3.will denote by an accent what relates to

                               I if

the third line chosen for making the correction.

     Now for the correction. Apply the formula (1) to calculate
the squared reciprocal of the wave-length for line from those for

lines and and let E be the error, or difference between the
       1                                                                   '
                      3,                                                                    1
                                                                                                         3,
numbers got by calculation and observation. Then to get the

correction     -, 32(E^) for the new line intermediate                     between  and
we have                     _
                            -(n'-nOto-V)
                                                2

   If you prefer working with the formula you have hitherto

employed, and wish to get the correction (S\ to the wave-length
of the intermediate line apply your formula to calculate the

wave-length of the known line chosen for making the correction,
                                      2,
                                               '

                                                                       )2

s. B. n.                                                                            29

450 ACCURACY OF THE AMENDED INTERPOLATION

and let $X' be the error of the interpolated wave-length, then
V - --_g X ((/^n2/
nj%) (MS                           n 2) ^ ,

     (ns                           n)\ >

where at the second side the first approximate value of the wave-

length of line 2 is to be taken.

    It is really a toss up of advantage which way you work. When

you have made a trial of the correction on some of the known

Icadmium lines, should be glad to know how it works.

     P.S. You will only want to work with 2 or at the most
3 significant figures in making the correction.

LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                   29 June, 1895.

As I was carrying my last letter, begun last night but finished
Ithis morning, to the post, recollected that the refractive indices
Iof the new lines were not known.
                                   had thought of the n's as

Irefractive indices, according to the notation usually employed on

the Continent, and then it occurred to me that as have just said

the refractive indices of the new lines were not known.

   I IBut suppose may take for granted that the differences of

the n's with suffixes in your letter are not the differences of

refractive indices exactly, but differences of the measured lengths

Ion your scales. So my momentary qualm had no foundation.

    Though I did not mention it in my letter, had tried Gibbs's

Ifirst set of numbers against my correction. The result I think

shows that the correction gave you, if the wave-lengths of the

cadmium lines can be trusted to such a degree of accuracy, will

Igive the wave-lengths correct to O0000001 metre. do not know

what the limit of accuracy of the wave-lengths of the cadmium

lines which you assumed as known may be.

                                                        7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, W.,

                                                              July Uh, 1895.

     MY DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,

             Your letters of the 28th and 29th arrived in due

Itime, and very fortunately have my mathematical son at home

for a short time, and he has been of great assistance to me in
working out a sufficient number of instances to enable me to test

ITS PKACTICAL UTILITY                    451

Ithe new formula you have sent me.  append a couple of cases :

I[omitted].

        have other examples, but they all come within the limits you
said. The new formula is a great improvement over the old one,
and it increases the accuracy more than ten-fold. Whereas, with

Ithe old one could not rely on more than three figures accurate
Iand on the fourth as approximative, now can feel certain about

the fourth figure, and get more or less close to the fifth.

   IHaving supplied me with so valuable a means of getting

accurate results, have no right to ask for more, but if it were
possible to simplify the operations it would be a great comfort.
At present it takes from 20 minutes to half an hour to work out

Ithe corrected wave-length of one line, and when each plate con-

tains from 20 to 100 lines, and like to correct the results by

working out the figures from separate measurements on two or
three different photographs, the time occupied mounts up in an

alarming way.

    The new formula has done good service in another way. It

Ihas enabled me to put my finger on two or three errors made

in measuring the wrong line. Two lines of a metal lying close
together, it is not always easy to decide which is the measured

Ione. Calculation now has disclosed the fact that had taken the

wrong line, and putting the measurements to the other line at

once removed a tiresome discrepancy.

     You are aware that my photographs are taken on a curved

film, while the measurements are taken when the film is flat.

The radius of curvature is about 7 inches. The actual distances

Iought to be measured across the chord of the arc, it seems to me,

instead of along the arc itself, as do.
     The measurements are in decimals of an inch. The fifth

figure is not to be trusted, but the fourth may be.
     The standard wave-lengths are those of Kayser and Runge,

based on the latest wave-lengths of Rowland.

                           I remain, very truly yours,

                                    292

452 ADVANTAGES OF SYSTEM IN NUMERICAL REDUCTIONS

                                  LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                             6 July, 1895.

I found your letter on my return from London last night. As

Ito the length of the process for giving the correction to the simple
form for approximate interpolation,          contemplated, after the

method had been tried numerically, in case it was found useful

to substitute a graphical for a numerical process, as being quite

sufficient for determining the small correction.

    If you had been using diffraction spectra, obtained by a

grating, then wave-lengths are what should have been used in the
interpolations required to get the wave-lengths of unknown lines

from the measurements of known and unknown lines taken on

your plates, combined with the known wave-lengths of as many

lines of known wave-lengths as you please to take for standards.

But as your spectra are obtained by refraction, it is convenient

Ito work throughout, not with wave-lengths, but with squared
reciprocals of wave-lengths.      find by experience that in

numerical calculation where you have several processes to be

carried on on several numbers, given say by observation, it is
far better, and involves less risk of error, instead of taking the
numbers one by one, and carrying out the processes on each in

succession, to take the processes one by one, and carry out each in

succession on all the numbers. It is much like the making of

needles, where one man cuts the wire into the proper lengths,
another, if need be, straightens
                           it,               another stamps one end to
                                        it,
         another drills
flatten  a iIf it,            another sharpens the ends. So in

numerical calculation the less you have to think of a change of

process, the more you work by a humdrum repetition of the

same process, the better.

Thus                were interpolating for a great lot of wave-lengths

from measurements taken on refraction spectra, would first write
                                  it

                                                 I
                                                          I
down in vertical column the known wave-lengths that want in

any way to deal with, whether     be to use as standards, or as

furnishing means of testing the success of the method of interpo-
lation employed, or of comparing the measurements on which
the assumed wave-lengths were founded with your own measure-

ments.

Suppose there were, say, 50 such wave-lengths. would write
                    a

                                      I
                                                          I
these down in vertical column.       will suppose that you wish to

        UTILITY OF SQUARED RECIPROCALS OF WAVE-LENGTHS 453

keep in 6 significant figures. As Barlow's table of squares, square
roots, reciprocals &c., goes only from to 10000, though the results

are given to 7 figures, it would be shorter to use logarithms than

to interpolate from Barlow's table. Well. I would write down in

a second column the 50 logarithms, in a third the 50 comple-
ments, in a fourth the 50 doubles, in a fifth the 50 antilogarithms.

Having thus got the squared reciprocals, I would throw overboard

wave-lengths altogether, and work by squared reciprocals. These
would show just as well as the others the degree of accordance
between the results of one observer and another, or between

different measurements of the same observer. It would be con-
venient if all tables of wave-lengths were accompanied by squared

reciprocals, as the two sets of numbers would be ready for public
use, the first for those who are working with diffraction, the second

for those who are working with refraction spectra. It goes with-

out saying that the final numbers for the wave-lengths of unknown
wave-length lines may be got from the squared reciprocals by
a calculation which is anything but formidable, even for numerous
lines, provided it be carried out process by process for a good large
batch of lines together.

      The interpolations may be done from your plates measured
after being made straight. There would be no advantage in
substituting chords for arcs. But the interpolation should be
done separately for different plates unless the part of the spectrum
for which the prisms were set at minimum deviation, and the part
of the spectrum for which the camera was pointed, were the same
in the two. And even on the same plate it remains to be found
by experience for how large a range of spectrum the same inter-
polation will suffice, that is to say, how much we can take in
without having recourse to another trio of standard lines.

      Now for the interpolation. Let q be the squared reciprocal of
the wave-length, x the measured distance of any line. Then
the first approximation, which is equivalent to the formula you

used, gives

Iand we have to add the small correction, which will call Sq.

      For this, apply the approximate formula (1) to a sufficient
number of known lines to serve as a test, and find the errors Sq.
 Now plot the results, taking the measured distances x for abscissas,

454  NECESSARY CURVATURE OF A LONG SPECTRUM

and the errors Bq for ordinates. The heads of the ordinates will
form a curve which with a suitable choice of scale will have a

gentle curvature. The scale of ordinates should be large enough
to prevent errors of drawing from exceeding errors of observation.
The scale of abscissas should be large enough to make the curve
of only gentle curvature, in which case it may be taken as a
circular arc, and drawn accordingly, unless the range of the
spectrum included to be too large to make the correction sensibly
represented by the ordinate of a circle even though the scale of
abscissas was not so small as to induce a deviation from circularity

due to this cause. It is an object to use a circle because the

curve is so easily drawn, but a smooth curve drawn with a flexible
rod will do as well.

     The places of the unknown lines on the axis of abscissas are
now laid down from the measured values x, and the small correc-

tions Bq for these lines are got by measuring the ordinates of the

curve.

   If you change the reference lines 1, 2, the values of Bq must

be calculated afresh for as many standard lines as you want for

drawing the curve. If the circumstances of two plates be not

quite the same, the curve drawn for the first will serve for the
second provided we refer the places of the unknown lines to known
lines near them, as the change or ordinate corresponding to the
small error of abscissa we might thus be liable to would be quite
insensible in its effect on wave-length.

                                           7, KENSINGTON  PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,
                                                                              4 March, 1894.
     DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,

     Allow me to thank you for the reply you have

so kindly sent to my query as to the curvature of the field of
Imy spectrograph.
                   regret there is no instrumental means of

getting the field flat, but it is well to know it cannot be done as
Ithereby time will be saved.
                              must try photographing on curved

Iplates.
        find the coma you speak of on one side of the lines, but have
succeeded in keeping it down by putting a small diaphragm in

front of the collimating lens.

CORNU COMPENSATED QUARTZ PRISMS  455

                                                                                                          26 November, 1896.

         I am building a large spectrograph, similar to the one of which
      I have shown you some of the results, but employing four double
     Iprisms of quartz (Cornu) instead of two. Preliminary trials show

        that shall get very fine results, the sharpness being as good as in
        the present instrument while the length of the spectrum will be

         about 15 inches.

         I have met with a little difficulty which I think a few lines

        from you will enable me to get over. The four prisms bend the light
        round to such an extent that the blue and ultra-violet rays overlap
        the path of the incident ray from the slit ; so that the slit and the
        photographic plate will in one position occupy the same place.

          I propose to get over this difficulty by introducing a right-

        angled prism in the path of the ray of light between the slit and
        the collimating prism, so as to put the slit quite out of the way of

       the camera. All my quartz. prisms are made each of two halves

      one right handed and one left handed, and what I want you to tell

     Ime is whether must have the right-angled prism made in the

       same way, and if so how are the half prisms to be cut in relation to

        the axis of the crystal. The Cornu plan is so perfect in removing

     I Iall trace of duplication of the lines even under the highest

        magnification can apply to them that do not wish to spoil the

        beauty of the spectra by having an imperfect right-angled prism

       if a little extra trouble will give me a perfect one.

         IYou have been so good on many occasions in helping me over

i awkward places that hope you will not think me too troublesome
        in asking for advice in this instance.

                                                             LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                                      30 November, 1896.

    It may be useful to you to know to what degree of accuracy

the two angles at the base of the reflecting prism must be made
equal to each other.

     Supposing there was a difference of one minute in the angles
which ought to be equal, that would introduce a duplication of
the image of the slit on the plate of only the one 400,000th part
of the focal length of the objective of the camera. Supposing
that to be, say, 20 inches, the separation would be the 1 /20,000th

Iof an inch. If the error were of 5' the separation on the plate

would still be only 1/4,000 inch, which greatly doubt if you

456 ACCURACY NEEDED IN SINGLE REFLECTING QUARTZ PRISM

would find sensible. Hence though accurate cutting would no
doubt be required, the accuracy does not appear to be by any
means superhuman.

     The thing is rendered much easier by the fact that one of the
angles is arbitrary within pretty wide limits. The optician would
cut out a prism from a crystal free from defects, cutting the block
for a prism of 90, 45, and 45 degrees, and would finish the
hypotenuse and one side. He would then measure the angle
between the finished faces, and fine-grind the other face to as

Inearly as might be the same angle. When the face was fine

ground, should think that by rubbing on a little oil the face
would give a sufficiently good reflection to permit of measurement

by reflection ; if not a piece of parallel plate could be made to stick

by capillary attraction by putting a small drop of oil between. The
measurement would show whether any correction was required.

If it were, it could then be done before polishing, so as not to
Ihave to spoil a finished face in order to correct the angle.

should think he could get the angles nearly enough equal without
any great difficulty.

     An error of 5' deviation from equality in the angles would
produce an angular error in the image of only 2"'7, about the 20th
part of the smallest angle which two well defined points can
subtend so as still to be seen by the naked eye as two.

      P.S. You did well to ask me, for you would hardly naturally
have thought of making the rays travel in a direction perpendicular
to the axis, where the difference between the refraction from or
into air of the ordinary and extraordinary is greatest.

                                                                                                           3 Dec., 1896.

      The length of the spectrum would increase in the same
proportion as the number of the prisms, the prisms being supposed
alike.

    A single prism would, I take for granted, cost distinctly less

than a compound prism. The difference perhaps would not be

Igreat, and yet think it would not be altogether trifling.
    But I think the plan of a reflecting prism halfway between the

slit and the objective of the collirnator ought not to be rejected
 without consideration. The prism would be half size, linear, of
what would be required the other way. An error in the equality

       COMPENSATION FOR OUTSTANDING DOUBLE REFRACTION 457

of the angles would be only half as serious, or to express it other-
wise, the limit of toleration of an inequality in the angles would
be doubled. The compensation for focus, if sufficiently serious to

be worth considering, would be easily effected by a very simple
kind of block, which would not consume much material, and
would only require two faces to be polished, and those quite
narrow, and little taller than the slit. The block would be placed

close to the slit (it might be anywhere between, but the nearer it
is placed the less size is demanded). The length in a fore and aft
direction would equal one of the short sides of the reflecting prism,
the thickness in a right and left direction need only be enough to
allow the rays on their way to the reflecting prism to clear the
corners. The block would be cut perpendicular to the axis of the

crystal, so that the axis is horizontal in the block and vertical in
the prism. Only the two vertical faces, fore and aft, need be
polished.

                                                                                                          2 Dec., 1896.

     As you make no objection to the position of the reflecting

Iprism being after the rays from the slit have passed through the

objective of the collimator, presume that this is either what you
had contemplated or what you acquiesce in, probably the former.

If however you wish it to come sooner, which would make a

Ismaller prism suffice, please let me know that may consider

about the best mode of compensation for a slight difference of
focus in the two images whose centres are coincident.

                                                                                                         4 Dec., 1896.

     Would you kindly tell me approximately the focal lengths and

Iapertures of your collimating and camera objectives, that may be

better able to judge of the relative advantages of different plans ?

    I suppose you have some reason for not liking the use of
Ia plane mirror of speculum metal. It would cost should think

Imuch less than the quartz, and so far as know it would serve

your purpose. Silver would not do, as it reflects feebly a portion
lying about the extreme end of the solar spectrum.

                                                                                                         8 Dec., 1896.

    Certainly if an additional compound prism would not cost

much more than a reflecting prism of comparable size, or a

reflecting prism of half size with the addition (if thought necessary)
of a small transmitting block, it would seem best to have the

458 SMALL REFLECTION FROM SUCCESSIVE QUARTZ SURFACES

advantage of the additional dispersion, which would increase the
length of the existing spectrum in the ratio of 4 to 5.

  ITaking the index at 1*57, find the loss by reflection at one

surface of quartz at a perpendicular incidence would be 4'9, say 5,

per cent. At the angle for minimum deviation for a prism of 60
it would for a single reflection be about 14 per cent, for light
polarized in the plane of incidence, and only about 1/3 per cent,
for light polarized perpendicularly to the plane of incidence. For
a compound R and L prism the modification of the state of polar-
ization in passing through one half at minimum deviation would
be neutralised in passing through the other half, so that such
a prism would behave like one cut from a doubly refracting
crystal exempt from rotatory polarization, and therefore light
polarized in and light polarized perpendicularly to the plane of

incidence would be transmitted independently, so that after
passing through four such prisms (supposed in perfect adjustment)
the light would be mostly polarized perpendicularly to the plane
of incidence, and there would therefore be but little loss by
reflection at the two oblique incidences. You would have con-
siderably less loss by reflection in the compound prism than you

would have by reflection at a speculum, even if its reflecting
power were as good (as it probably would be) for the rays of high

refrangibility with which you chiefly work as for the visible rays.
     At a single right-angled reflecting prism you would have the

loss due to two reflections at a perpendicular incidence. In a

compound Cornu prism you would have this and in addition the
loss due to two reflections at an oblique incidence; but for the

Ireason have just mentioned the latter would not be very serious
Ifor light that has already passed through four such compound prisms.

        do not think it will signify much your collimator not being

quite in focus for all the rays. It puts as it were your slit at

a great distance instead of at infinity, and very good spectra can
be got with a distant slit.

                                                                                   13 Jan., 1897.

    I have not waited to hear from you, but have tried the effect

 of substituting the index T57, which is about that of quartz for
 the high rays, for 1*5, the result of which is given in Coddington.
 The advantage of the second arrangement (curved faces both
 forward) over the first (flat faces together) comes out very nearly,
 though not quite, as great, 11 to 3 instead of 4 to 1. The

  ARRANGEMENT OF COMPOUND LENS FOR OBLIQUE PENCILS 459

substitution of the second arrangement for the first would there-
fore reduce the spherical aberration to very nearly one quarter.

     As you have a very wide field, the effect on the highly oblique
pencils is important to consider. The calculation for these is
troublesome ; but by a calculation having some relation to it

I have been led to think that the very oblique pencils would also

be improved rather than otherwise. Very probably the second

Iarrangement is the one adopted, but if it should be the first

think it would be well worth while to try the effect of so very

Isimple a change.

       do not think it would matter practically which lens of either

Ipair were put outside ; but if it be as easy to put one as the other,

which is probably the case, would take for the outside lens in
each pair quartzes of opposite name, that is one right-handed and
the other left-handed.

                             7, KENSINGTON  PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,
                                                         13 Jan., 1897.
      SIR GEORGE STOKES,
DEAR

      The lenses are not compound ones. They are

plano-convex, the collimating lens being cut from right-handed

quartz and the camera lens from left-handed quartz. They are

mounted with their convex sides next the prisms. Thanks for

your explanation of what puzzled me as to the apparent duplication

of lines when out of focus.

     With the five prisms and longer focus lenses the curvature of

Ithe field is becoming very serious. At the red end when started

the curvature of the plate had to be 470 mms. radius. Then it had

Ito be altered to 173 mms. radius, and now have had to curve it to
Ia radius of 145 mms. and have at least six more positions beyond
Ito get before am at the highest point in the ultra-violet. In

addition to the curvature, the plate, or rather, the tangent to the

centre of the plate, has to be at an angle with the incident light,

so the result is that the higher rays will strike the surface at a

glancing angle. My plates are 162 mms. long, so the further end is

getting nearly in a line with the incident rays. No sharpness is
Ipossible under these conditions.
                                            fear there is no way out of the

difficulty but taking a very narrow part of the spectrum at a time,

say a few mms. and putting the plate normal to the rays.

460 OBLIQUITY AND CURVATURE OF SPECTRA

LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                     14 Jan., 1897.

     For what part of the spectrum do you focus the collimator,

and for what part do you set the prisms for minimum deviation,

when you attempt (if so it may be) to photograph the whole

spectrum at once?

                                                                                     14 January, 1897.

   IAfter I had written to you last night seemed to have a
Iglimmering doubtful recollection that had asked you the same

question once before, and that you had told me the lenses were
Iplaced curved faces forward in both halves.
                                               am however by no
I If I Imeans sure whether ever asked the question.
                                               did, must

beg you to excuse the troubling you. Be the existing arrangement

what it may, the lines are beautifully sharp.

                                       7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

                                                                              20 January, 1897.

     MY DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,

         I Ihave received and studied your letters. First

will answer your questions.
     The focal length for the D ray of the lenses in my smaller

spectrograph is 315 mms. The focal length for the same ray, of
the lenses in my present instrument, is 673 mms. All measured
from the convex side. In each case the convex side is next the

prisms. Both collimator and camera lens are of the same focus.
The apertures of the 315 mm. lenses are 52 mms., those of the

673 mm. lenses are the same. The recent lenses are new ones.

I have the old ones by me. They are in the old apparatus which

I do not wish entirely to dismantle, as it will be very useful in

taking spectra which are too faint for the large instrument.

    IBefore getting your last letter had tried the experiment of

shortening the distance between the slit and the collimating lens.

It was formerly set at 673 Imms. and now have pushed the slit in
I45 mms. reducing the distance between slit and lens to 628 mms.

am working high up in the ultra-violet rays, and the plate takes in

wave-lengths between 3403*74 cadmium, and 2573*12 cadmium.
The prisms are set for the min. dev. of a line very near 2573.

      When the collimator was 673 mms. from the slit the angle

                 EFFECT OF CHANGE OF ADJUSTMENT               461

of the plate had to be about 42, and the curvature of the plate

150 mms. radius. Pushing the slit in 45 mms. has had the effect of

reducing the angle to 9, and the curvature to a radius of 235 mms.

These are very great advantages, and to-morrow I am going

to try the effect of altering the positions of the prisms so as to get

a line near wave-length 3403 at min. dev. to see if the curvature of

the plate will be still further reduced. Pushing in the slit has

had another advantage. It has brought the lines at the blue side

closer together, while at the same time the lines at the red end are
I Inot much altered.
                 thought would tell you the effect of these
I Ialterations before
                 do much more, as do not care to alter
the adjustments blindly. It takes about two days hard working
to get the focus, angle, and curvature right after I have made

any alteration.
IIn my old instrument
                       could get all the spectrum on one
Iplate. Now am using longer plates and it takes about six

to take the whole. My least refrangible line that will impress

Iitself on the plate is the double sodium line. But want to

allow space for the red lines in case a method of sensitising the

plates for the red end is subsequently discovered. Methods are

now known, but they make the plate so slow as to be useless.

                                                            LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                                 26 March, 1897.

     The spectra you showed me were really wonderful for
sharpness of definition, considering that the whole would be 10
feet long. Indeed the definition would have been most remark-
able even had the slip you showed me represented the whole
of the spectrum, instead of only a small fraction of it ; though of
course it is to be said that from the small variations of index
within the range, the conditions of getting sharply a small
fraction of a long spectrum are in some respects a little simpler
than those of getting the whole spectrum within the same length.

     What you showed me as to the presence or absence of certain

lines in two iron spectra taken under what appeared to be
identical conditions bears out your remark in the discussion, that
there is still a great deal to be done in the laboratory beyond what
has already been done, in relation to the important subject which
Lockyer is discussing.

462 CORNU HALF PRISMS MUST BE IN CONTACT

                                                     8 Jan., 1898.

In the existing arrangement of your prisms, the right and left-

handed halves of each compound prism are traversed at almost

exactly the same inclination to the axis, not alone in the position

of minimum deviation, but also by the rays of the spectrum right

and left of that for which the deviation is a minimum. Hence the

compensation. But in the arrangement you are thinking of

(slightly inclined instead of Cornu's method, back to back) one
half is traversed perpendicularly to the axis and the other at an

inclination depending on the distance of the point of the spectrum

under consideration from that point for which the direction of
Itraversing is normal.
                        assume that you contemplate placing each

half prism, as regards azimuth, in the position which had its fellow

been with it would have been that of minimum deviation for the

compound prism so formed, not in the position of minimum

deviation for the half alone, which is quite a different thing.

Before venturing on the contemplated alteration, it would be
well to test by eye observation (or if this should be inconvenient by
Iphotography) whether the difference of inclination will introduce a
sensible double refraction.   rather expect it may.

IFor this purpose take a single compound prism, or if more
convenient your whole train.  suppose you have an eye-piece

that you can use in lieu of the camera plate in the observing

telescope, or if not that you could temporarily substitute some

other telescope for it for the purpose of eye observations. Choose

Iany point of the spectrum for your standard, say the D line.

will suppose that you use a single compound prism, but the

method will be the same if you find it more convenient to use the

whole set. Focus the collimator for the standard, and adjust the

prism for minimum deviation of the same. Having observed the

standard line at its best, leave the front half undisturbed, and turn

the rear half prism in either direction through an angle equal the

largest angle you want to have in your half field, and notice on

your test object whether the imperfection of the compensation of
Ithe two halves is sensible. rather expect there will be a sensible
Ifdouble refraction.
                      so, the new arrangement must not be adopted.

                    EXPERIMENTAL TEST                        463

                                                                                    8 Jan., 1898.

   I I... said (as regards the last arrangement proposed) that the

inclination of the second prism to the first, i.e. the inclination of

the flat faces to each other, should be made in the trial as great as

the angle subtended at the centre of the camera objective by lines

drawn, one to the part of the field for which the rays emerge

perpendicularly, the other to the edge of the field which you want
I Ito have good.
              was not so explicit, but that was what meant.

     In truth that would exaggerate the angle to be encountered,

Ias for the sake of being on the safe side did not allow for the

refraction towards the normal of the emergent axis supposed

reversed in direction to so as to enter instead of emerging from the

last prism.

   If you care to rig up an arrangement in which the halves only

are used, being placed in the relative positions you have drawn,
you must remember that it will not test the doubtful point unless

you turn the prism next the telescope from the position in which

the rays emerge perpendicularly, through an angle which (after
making allowance for refraction of the axes of the pencils) is about

5/9 of the greatest angle subtended at the centre of the observing
telescope by the half field as above mentioned.

                    7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

DEAR SIR GEORGE,               10 January, 1898.

I II have been trying a series of experiments                this
morning, and        now send you the results.  fitted up     the

spectroscope with a much more powerful eye-piece, and longer
Ifocussed quartz lenses than usually employ, so as to get a good
Imagnified image of the slit.
                               first put the prisms in the

following position (I need not draw the lenses, they were in the

proper positions to receive and send on the rays along their axes).

IThe slit was as fine as could use, and the light was a sodium
Iflame. No amount of magnification that could apply would

show me the two components of D. This was only to be expected
with one prism....

Briefly, the experiments show this: When the light passes

through the prism -components parallel to the optical axis there is

no double refraction, no matter how the components are situated.

But when the light does not pass along the axis double refraction

shows itself, increasing in amount with the divergence of the axis

and path of light.

464 DEFINITION DEPENDS ON WIDTH OF BEAM

I was confident                     LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,      to
                                                       11 Jan., 1898.

                 beforehand that there was nothing

fear from the change of arrangement so long as the pencils pass

along the axes in the two half prisms, as in your expt. 4. I

mean, so long as, being placed in the intended position, you are

dealing with light which passes through both in the direction

of the axis. The question was, supposing your second half prism

turned round from that position through a small angle, as great
however as that which your half field subtends at the centre of the

camera objective, would the amount of double refraction which

would then come in be perceptible, so as sensibly to impair the

image of a line ?

   I think the result of your trials is fatal to the new arrangement

unless that angle through which you have turned the second prism

was decidedly greater than the angle actually demanded.

    Let be the centre of the camera objective, ABG an arc

of the focal band, or of the photographic slip, for which you

require to have the image good, G being the point for which the

rays passed through the second half prism in the direction of the
axis. Settle what is the greatest angle AOC or COB that you

demand to have the image good for. Cut a piece of paper or card

to an angle 5/9 or say 2/3 of this, and use it for a template for
turning the prism. Having placed the prisms as in fig. 1 back to

back, or fig. 4 of your letter (no matter which, but fig. 1 will
be rather the simpler) so as to get your test image quite good,

turn the second prism through the angle given by the template,

and see whether the image is practically good up to the angle of

turning. If it be good, you have turned it in your trials through

a needlessly large angle ; you have put the prism to an unreason-

ably severe test. But if even when turned no more than through

the angle given by the template the image is distinctly inferior,

such as you would not tolerate, your proposed plan must be given

up unless you are content to take the photographs more piece-
meal, using a larger number of photographs, each taking in a

smaller arc.

   IWhile you are about it should be glad if you would try this

experiment. Place the prisms, as in fig. 1 back to back, in the
normal position. Notice the goodness of the image. Now turn
the second half separating them through the angle A, and notice

the goodness. Now leaving the second half in the last position

             ILLUMINATION IN A SPECTROSCOPE                                                         465

bring the first half up to      which comes of course to the same
                                is
                                       it,

                                                          I

                                                                                                 a
thing as turning the whole prism together from the first position

through the angle A. Notice the goodness.                should like to

know whether there              much difference in goodness of image

between the second and third positions.

    The angle A may be that of the template, or in case the

images were still (in the previous trials) found good so far, some-

what larger angle.

                                                   28 Nov., 1898.

     In the first place should like to know what am to assumeit I

as to the breadth of the object to be photographed. If were a

flame, you would not want a condenser at all. Your collimator
II                                                       it

            a I is I                                        if
                    Isubtends at the slit an angle of about in 12, so that you
                                     2
                                                1
brought your flame near the slit, say inches off, would require

a breadth of flame of only one- third of an inch to fill the

collimator. But feel pretty sure that  it          not with flames that
                                           is

you are mainly working.

        suppose you are working chiefly with induction discharges
which show the metallic lines due to the electrodes. In that case

the luminosity very narrow, at least the most intense part of                                       it it,
and suppose shall not be far wrong in assuming that you want

to work with luminosity that may be regarded as infinitely

narrow, so that the image formed by the condenser, assuming

perfect, would be practically as narrow as you please.

As the refractions produced by the two cylindrical lenses are

independent of each other, taking place in perpendicular planes,

there  a is  no reason why the two lenses should be placed near

together. The place of No. (the one with its axis horizontal,2
and which therefore refracts in vertical plane) may be chosen ata

such position as to give a sufficient height to the illuminated

portion of the slit to give the height of the lines on the photo-

graphic plate what you think sufficient, without making them

needlessly high, so as to waste light. It the other lens we are
                                       is
mainly concerned with.                      is

Now the luminosity itself has no sensible breadth, so that we
       if
              it

                             a
may regard   as point or vertical line as the case may be,

we gain light by bringing the lens nearer to the luminous point.
For the angular width of the refracted pencil given that being

equal to the angle subtended at the slit by the collimator

s. B. ii.                                                30

466 POSITION OF CONDENSING LENS

the incident pencil which feeds this becomes wider. There is the

obstacle of spherical aberration, which however, when not too

I Iextravagant, can be corrected by a lens, which must be concave.
        must close this now to catch the post, but  will write

again.

                                        2 Dec., 1898.

IPray excuse the delay.  am at present engaged in lectures,
Ibesides some other matters.
                              don't expect to lecture beyond
I ITuesday, and shall then be free comparatively speaking. Mean-

while should be glad to know whether the focal length of the

collimator is roughly the same as that of the camera objective, or say

I Ihalf of it or whatever it may be. only care to know that may know
Iwhether may take the height of the image as approximately

that of the slit, or double that of the slit. But the shortest plan

would be to give me roughly the height of the slit directly, and

then you need not mind the other.

   II think shall come to the conclusion that it would-be an

improvement to move the condenser somewhat nearer to the spark.

Would it suit you to do me the honour of dining with me

as my guest at the anniversary dinner of the Cambridge Philo-

sophical Society on Saturday, Dec. 10?

                                                                                                           4 Dec., 1898.

    I had previously made some simple calculations (arithmetical)
Iabout places of foci &c., and last night plotted, or rather drew,

the course of the rays in the horizontal and vertical planes. The
figure showed how little the condensing lenses come really into
play. With the distances you have got, the only parts of the
lenses which come really into use are bands of breadth about

1/4 inch for the one of shorter focus and 1/3 inch for the other; or, as
either band would only come into play over a portion of he other,
squares of say 0'35 inch a side would be the only part really

in use.

     The work of the condenser is much lightened by the sub-
stitution of the new collimator of (say) the same aperture and

double the focal length of the old, as the cone of rays which the
condenser has to supply is now of only half the angle it was.

   If I may assume that the source of light is infinitely narrow, a

considerable improvement may be made by bringing the con-

densing lenses nearer to the spark. If the breadth of the

             PRECAUTIONS IN BAILY'S CAVENDISH EXPERIMENTS 467

Iluminosity is somewhere about that of the slit, the change in

 position would think make little change in efficiency one way or
 other. But you can get rid of the curvature, which may as well

 be done.

    I have not yet drawn the course of the rays for one or two

 other positions of the lenses.
       One advantage of cylindrical over spherical lenses is that

 the work of each is independent of that of the other, so that
 in considering where you had best place the one you need not
 trouble yourself with the place of the other; only of course one
must not invade the space occupied by the other. They need not

however be nearly together if it should be found well to separate

 them.

                                                                                                           7 Feb., 1898.

      Baily repeated Cavendish's experiment on the attraction of
leaden balls with a view to determine the mean density of the
earth. Baily was an extremely accurate experimentalist, and had
expended a great deal of time and trouble on the experiments
when he showed his apparatus to Professor James Forbes. Forbes,
who had worked a great deal at radiant heat, suggested to Baily,
with a view to mitigating or removing certain irregularities
referable to changes of temperature, that he should gild his balls.
Baily tried this, and found his results so much improved that
he rejected a great lot of work, and began his observations afresh.
As you mentioned disturbance by temperature changes, it is pos-
sible that gilding the balls might greatly reduce the disturbances.

    I don't know your object; but in case it should be to try
Iwhether there is such a thing as specific gravitation, may as

well mention that Bessel repeated, with all the refinements of
modern accuracy, the fundamental experiment by which Newton
proved (what could not have been foreseen) that the attraction of
gravitation exercised by a body is simply proportional to its mass
(as measured by inertia) irrespective of its chemical nature.

                                                              302

468 ANOMALIES IN REPEATING CAVENDISH k EXPERIMENT

                    7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,   Feb. 8, 1898.

...To begin with I took gold and gold, and worked for a

long time with these so as to find out all the peculiarities of the

Iapparatus. It was made and remade a dozen times before

Isettled down to the one now in use. Having obtained very good

and concordant results with two spheres of gold, replaced one

of them by a sphere of magnesium of exactly the same weight in

air, and repeated the same experiments. The apparatus is so
arranged that at any time I can tell the exact distance from
Icentre to centre.
                    have not finished the magnesium-gold experi-
Iments, but may say that in every case the attraction between

IMg and Au is far greater than that between Au and Au.      copied

   I know Baily's difficulties well, for over 40 years ago

out nearly his whole papers and subsequently printed privately all
Ithe portions which referred to the difficulties he met with.
                                                               do

not think gilding would be of any use in my case, for the whole

thing is in glass, sealed up and embedded all round in about

eight inches of wool, feather pillows, and wooden caseing. It is

in perfect darkness and in a room that scarcely changes in tempe-

rature. A narrow glass tube connects it with the pump, and

small windows, stuffed with eight inches of wool, can be removed
Iwhen I want to get to the inside of the case. A small tube leads
the ray of light to the mirror on the moving beam.  observe

from a telescope some distance off. The room is entirely set apart

for this purpose and is not entered by anyone but myself or

Iassistant when experiments are going on.
        was not aware of Bessel's experiments, but will look them
If Iup at once.
he has anticipated me may as well stop and do
Isomething else. Can you tell me where shall find an account of

Ithem?                was going to try all the other metals
     After magnesium

against the same sphere of gold, and then try them against each
other and other metals. The permutations would be very great

Iand can only hope to try a few typical cases and leave the rest

to younger men.

   I am still in hopes there may be something left for me, for

Bessel had no quartz fibres and did not work in a vacuum on

masses of only 57 grains in weight.

ELECTRICAL LEAKAGE THROUGH RAREFIED AIR                          469

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,              LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                  9 Feb., 1898.

              From my remembrance of the look of the German book

I I Iin which read Bessel's paper to which referred in rny letter,

did not doubt that it was the Berlin Transactions. The title is

given in the R. S. Catalogue, Vol. I. p. 345, No. 108. There

are two abstracts referred to as well. "Versuche iiber der Kraft

mit welcher die Erde Korper von verschiedener Beschaffenheit

anzieht. Berlin, Abhand. 1830, pp. 41 102; Pogg. Ann. xxv.,

1832, pp. 401417; Astr. Nach. x., 1833, col. 97108."
    It would be useless to try your experiment for the object for

which you designed it. Bessel has proved the independence of

the attraction on the nature of the attracted body with an

accuracy incomparably superior to anything you could do in your

way. It is true that in Bessel's work the attracting body was
always the earth. But attraction is a thing mutual ; if bodies
A and B attract each other, you may consider A the attractor
and B the attracted, or B the attractor and A the attracted, just

as you like. Hence to test whether or no there is such a thing

as specific gravitation there is no need to change the nature of
both bodies; one will suffice; and when the earth and a ball

attract each other, you may consider the earth as the attractor
and the ball as the attracted, and may limit yourself to changing

the nature of the attracted.

    I have no doubt the difference you found between gold-gold

and magnesium-gold arose from electrical attraction. The rare-

fied air acted slowly as an electrolyte, and the different metals

Igot slowly charged, positively and negatively, up to a certain
difference of potential.  feel little doubt that if the aluminium

ball were gilt the result would be very different ; for then you

would have two balls alike as to surface, though very different

in the interior.

The amount of attraction would very probably depend on the

I Inature of the residual gas in the exhausted chamber. You have
worked, understand, with air.  have no doubt that your

apparatus is very delicate, and it may perhaps do good service in
electricity; but of the likelihood of that Lord Kelvin would be a
far better judge than I.

    I supposed the gradual alteration, towards one side, of the

470 VOLTAIC DISTURBANCE IN CAVENDISH EXPERIMENT

middle point of the swings, as the amount of swing decreased, to
be due to the unequal effects of the viscosity at equal distances
on the two sides of the resting point, and that may be the cause
of it. But it may also be due to a very gradual accumulation of

electric charge on the balls.

                                                                                                         12 Feb., 1898.

    I have not finished the numerical calculation, but as the last

Ipost which would be delivered in London is now close, write

to say that your beautifully delicate apparatus may yet do good
service, though in a way quite different from that for which it was
constructed. We can calculate very well the deflection due to

Igravitation, and on deducting that we shall get the residual

deflection due to some other cause. That should think is pro-
bably the deflection due to a minute electrical charge depending
on the dissimilarity of the two metals.

     For a given potential, the charge on a sphere varies as the
radius, whereas the attraction of gravitation exerted by the sphere
at a given distance varies as the cube of the radius, i.e. given

distance from the centre. Hence if you take a radius 10 times

as great as before, the proportion of attraction of gravitation
exerted by the sphere to the electrical attraction is 100 times as

great as it was for the smaller sphere. Hence with your small

apparatus the electrical attractions come out into' evidence.

              15 Feb., 1898.

    I had occasion to go to London to-day shortly after breakfast.

I was at the R. S. for a short time, and took occasion to look
Iinto the notice, in Poggendorff, of Bessel's work to which re-
Iferred you.
              see that not only was there no specific gravitation

to be discovered, but the accuracy of the observations was such

that we could say that if there were any it was not more than the

10~6 or so of the whole. This is vastly closer than what you could

possibly detect with your instrument.

    Let A, B be two mutually gravitating masses. Leaving A

unchanged, let the nature of B be changed (gold, aluminium,

quartz &c.) and appeal to experiment to show whether the attrac-
tion is or is not proportional to the mass of B. Nothing hinders

us from taking for A the earth itself, which makes the experiment

Icomparatively easy and accurate.
     Though think the question of specific gravitation is already

MAY BE SCREENED OFF BY A WIRE CAGE                      471

settled, your apparatus is available for the repetition, with im-

proved conditions, of Cavendish's experiment. Also the cause of

the difference of result according as the "weight" was of gold or
aluminium has yet to be investigated. You have already been

richly rewarded by the results you arrived at by hunting out

unexplained anomalies.

                        22 Feb., 1898.

I have verified a few of your numbers, just to see that your
Imode of calculation and plotting is right, which find it to be.
I found however some numerical errors or errors of copying, which-
Iever it may be.
                  think there may be errors of both kinds. The

first is pretty clearly a mis-copy; the second looks like an arith-
Imetical error.
                 think it would be well to check your additions

and subtractions. The numbers taken out of the table are not

Ilikely to be wrong.

    It has think now been shown that the way in which uranium

acts as a discharger is by rendering the air (or other gas) inter-

vening between the charged and uncharged, or (as the case may

be) differently charged metallic bodies, a conductor. In a perfect
vacuum there would be no discharge, and in a very high vacuum

Ithe discharge is imperfect, but whether only much slower, or

whether even if time be given less complete, do not recollect.

I think it is in Nature that a paper by Lord Kelvin on the subject

appeared a few months ago. A similar conclusion follows from

some recent work of Rontgen's. As you want a good vacuum, the

protection afforded by uranium would be but imperfect.

But the weight and ball can be quite sheltered from each

other's electrical influence by a cage or screen of metal or metallic

gauze in metallic connexion with the earth. I do not know

whether your "weight" is insulated or in metallic connexion with

the earth. Anyhow the suspended ball is insulated by the quartz

fibre, so that if it got charged the charge would influence the

apparent attraction of the weight and ball.

    But if the ball and weight be screened from each other by a
metallic screen in connexion with the earth, then if the ball gets

charged it will induce towards the cage, but the external effect
will be nil. The cage and ball will electrically attract each other,

and the resting point will be different from what it would be if

there were no charge. But the external effect of the charges on
the ball and cage will be nil, so that, provided the charge does

472 RADIOMETER DISTURBANCE IN CAVENDISH EXPERIMENT

not alter, the difference of the resting points weight up and
Iweight down will be almost unaffected by the charge.
                                                              say

"almost," because the small difference of half a millimetre or so

between the resting points with and without the weight will make

a little difference in the electrical attraction between the ball

and the screen in case it is the ball that is charged ; not much

however if the screen be kept as far from the ball as the weight

will allow.

   If you consider the idea of a screen to prevent electrical action
Ibetween the ball and weight worth thinking about, can enter

into further particulars.

                7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

DEAR SIR GEORGE,               Feb. 28^, 1898.

...I meet with a radiometer effect when the apparatus is

not properly screened from external influences by non-conductors
I Iof heat.
                think can recognise these disturbances, and they
Ihave almost entirely disappeared now.
Iare due to some other cause.               think the movements

                               cannot think it possible that the

upper part of the bulb is of a different temperature from the

lower part.

When the apparatus is left to itself the weight is left where
Iit happened to be at the end of the last experiment sometimes
up and sometimes down.     Iset up the swing when commence

an observation by altering the position of the weight. This

is sufficient.
I Ihave had a hard day's work to-day.
                                            have kept the pump

going without stopping all day long, and have been observing

swings with the weight alternately up and down at different

distances along the scale so as to get as many observations as

possible under the same circumstances.
IMy " weight " is electrically connected with earth, but the ball
is insulated.   could silver the quartz fibre and so make it

conduct if you think this would be of use.

                               LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,                       27 Feb., 1898.

I meant to have calculated and sent you the effect of the

mere attraction of the magnesium ball. In consequence of your

             DOES NOT ACCOUNT FOR THE PHENOMENA                473

Iletter received to-day, did the calculation this evening, and find

that at the distance of a centimetre between the centres of the

gold and magnesium balls the gravitation of the magnesium ball
would cause a deflection of only 0'003 mm.

   I hope to write to you to-morrow about electrical screening.

The facts you mentioned in your last render it all the more inter-
esting to make out the cause of the attraction.

                               1 March, 1898.

     The smallness of the gravitational effect in your apparatus
depends on the smallness of the scale. In an apparatus similar
to yours in every respect, except that the scale of everything was

ten times as great linear, the mutual attraction would be 10,000

times as great. The small scale is therefore advantageous as
getting rid of effects of gravitation, which has been already well

investigated.

   IfP.S. the object be to determine whether or no the attrac-

tion be electrical, it will be well to gild the fibre. But if the

object be to make what can be made out of it on the supposition
that the attraction is electrical, it will be better to have the fibre

insulating.
IIf it were gilt,
                   suppose there would be no difficulty in

removing the gold by a solution of cyanide of potassium, for

enough of the fibre at any rate to make the fibre insulating.

             7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

                               March 4th, 1898.

DEAR SIR GEORGE,

reason.  I do not think the movements are radiometric for this

         I have on more than one occasion kept the weight down

(near the ball) all night, and on looking in the morning the position
was the same as it had been 16 hours before. The temperature of

both must have been the same. On now raising the weight, the
ball immediately swung back, showing that it had remained for

16 hours under a constant pull, which could not have been due

to difference of temperature.

474  AETHEREAL NATURE OF CATHODE RAYS DENIED

                  LENSFIELD COTTAGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                       24 Oct., 1896.

DEAR MR CROOKES,

     It is stated by Eilhard Wiedemann that when phosphor-

escence is produced in the wall of a Crookes tube by the electric

Ibombardment (he would say by the Kathodenstrahlen, which

don't believe) it is at the outer surface that the glass phosphoresces,
and that the reason why this was not perceived is that the
wall is usually made thin, so that you can't tell at which

surface the phosphorescence takes place; but when you try
with a thick wall you then see that the phosphorescence takes

place at the outer wall.               I can imagine that it might

    This seems to me strange if true*

be difficult to distinguish between an internal reflection at the

outer surface, of phosphorescence at the inner, and phosphorescence
at the outer surface itself, unless the discharge were limited by an
internal screen with a hole or long aperture forming a broad slit,

Ior else allowed to fall on a body casting a shadow. In either case

  think it would not be difficult with care to distinguish by means

Iof parallax between the two.
     According to my knowledge so far, am very strongly disposed
to believe that with respect to the nature of the so-called "Katho-
denstrahlen" you are right, and Wiedemann, Lenard and Rontgen

Iare wrong.
        should be glad to know whether you have critically examined
the question, Is the seat of the phosphorescence the immediate
neighbourhood of the inner or outer surface of the glass wall?

                                       29 Oct., 1896.

     IMany thanks for your letter. Pray do not trouble yourself to
make a tube such as you proposed.      do not think uranium glass
Iwould be specially suited to the object had in view; rather

the contrary ; for it is so very sensitive to phosphorogenic action

that it might rather obscure the issue to be tried, which is whether

the phosphorescence produced by what the Germans call the

Kathodenstrahlen is ever shown on what we should be disposed
from our theory to call the " wrong " side of the glass.

     Two tubes have been constructed in the Cavendish Laboratory,

in the absence of Prof. J. J. Thomson, who has not yet returned

     * This point was settled in Oct. 1878, supra pp. 410 seq.

                BRITISH VERSUS GEEMAN VIEWS                                                           475

from America, which, combined with a re-perusal of what
E. Wiedemann has written, settle the question in my mind,
and show that Wiedemann's conclusion is based on a wrong
interpretation of the facts he had observed.

                                                                       2 Nov., 1896.

IMost hearty thanks for your very kind present of the beautiful
" Crookes " which reached me safely on Saturday.                       have not yet

tried as had the cares of a lecture on my shoulders to-day, but
I
                                                                  shall probably take
            is it,

          it I I
                                                                 ;
                        I
                                 I
                                  I
hope to do so without delay.                                                           it     to the

Cavendish Laboratory for though have an induction coil of my

own (in fact have two) have not worked them for great many

years, and would take too long to wait for trying the tube till
                                                                       a
should have got everything into order. But the tube                                    is     strong-
                                                                        IIa
                                                                                           a

inducement to me to set to work again at some experimental work.

    It curious how all the Germans, so far as have seen,

oppose you, and say that the cathodic rays are processes in

the ether, the propulsion of matter being merely secondary, and

non-essential, phenomenon, while so far as                          I  know all your

countrymen support you. The French, so far as can gather

opinions from papers in the Comptes Rendus, where the issue not                                   is

directly raised, are divided in opinion as to whether the cathodic

rays are streams of molecules, or are something going on in

the ether.

                                                                       10 Nov., 1896.

        think told you that tried the tube you so kindly sent me
both in air, and with the lower part of the tube immersed in
a

  I
         I
                         I
                                       I
beaker of water so as to diminish the range within which total

internal reflection could take place.                               could not feel sure that

there was not, in addition to phosphorescence at the inner surface,

also a phosphorescence extending from the outer surface some way

into the glass. It was very difficult to say whether this was

merely the effect of total internal reflection of the phosphorescence

which took place at the inner surface.
        afterwards bethought me of trying bisulphide of carbon, with
I

               I

                                                                      it
                                                                                 it

                                                                                              is
which there could be no total internal reflection, as                                             more

refractive than at any rate crown glass, and probably than the

uranium glass.  tried that to-day, and with this certainly there

was no phosphorescence on the outside.                                                 must have

   If therefore there were any when water was used,

476 EVIDENCE FOR NATURE OF CATHODE RAYS

been connected with the conducting power of water, rendering
conceivably possible something of a Leyden jar effect, like what
takes place when a discharge is passed through a moderately

Iexhausted tube and the wall is touched with the finger. But

   think it was very probably only an internal reflection of the

phosphorescence at the inner wall.

     P.S. It would of course be very remarkable, would in fact
amount to a discovery, if there were any phosphorescence

produced at the outside of the glass when it was immersed in

Iwater. The thing seems so unlikely that think it must have

been the total internal reflection that gave the apparently

Iexternal reflection saw when the tube was immersed in water

(i.e. external to the inner surface of the wall though internal
to the outer surface).

                                     31 March, 1897.

The Rendiconti of the meeting on March 7 of the Italian

Lynxes, which reached me this morning, contained (p. 183) an
interesting paper by Majorana " Sulla deviazione electrostatica

Idei raggi catodici " which is in full accord with your (and may

say the British generally) view of the nature of the so-called

cathodic rays, though some (entre nous wrong-headed) Germans

will have it that the Kathodenstrahlen are a process going on

in the ether.              definite  views regarding the nature of
                                     given in germ and moderate
    I have come to pretty  I have

the Rontgen rays, which

development, indeed pretty far developed, to the Victoria Institute,

the British Association, and the Cambridge Philosophical Society.

The last two were oral communications, and indeed so was the
Ifirst, but it was taken down.
                                hope shortly to draw up a full

paper for the Cambridge Philosophical. The whole thing is based

on the view that the "Kathodenstrahlen" are not rays at all, but

streams of molecules.

   I am just off to London.

                                     12 April, 1900.
I have long had it in my mind to return you the photographs

I Iyou sent me a good while ago to show the results obtained with
your improved quartz spectroscope.   am afraid am very much
Igiven to the bad habit of procrastination. I did not recollect

exactly where put them, but the other day in looking for some-

CAUSE OF INTERFERING SPECTRA IN MIXTURES                       477

I Ithing else came across them.  now return them with many
Iapologies.
             hope they will reach you undamaged.
I was looking the other day into your paper in the Phil.
Trans, in which you show the curious effect of samaria in modify-

Iing the phosphorescent spectrum of lime and other oxides.

could not help speculating on the rationale of the dulling effect of

a small quantity of samaria on the phosphorescent spectrum

of lime. It seemed to me that the samaria must act as a sort

of transformer, taking up vibrations from the lime and passing on

the molecular agitation to a wider molecular group, which might

be made to give out light of a somewhat lower refrangibility.

This leads me to ask whether, when the phosphorescent

spectrum of a mixture of lime and samaria, the quantity of

samaria being small though not the very smallest, is examined

with low dispersion, there is any extra brightness in the lime

spectrum on the red-end side of the dull band which samaria

Iproduces in the lime spectrum.       should like to ask, which
      There is also another question

is whether you have examined the absorption spectrum of the

earths themselves and mixtures of earths. Most probably you

Ihave; but as a powder does nor lend itself for observation of

absorption as well as a solution, presume that the absorption

spectra you have given are those of solutions of salts of the earths.
Still it would be worth while if you have not done so already (as

Imost likely you have) to take a look at the absorption-spectra of
the earths themselves.  need not say that when the specimen is

accessible, and you don't object to contact with a substance which

can afterwards be washed out, a drop of oil or glycerine would

somewhat facilitate the observation.

    I suppose you have by you the tubes you used for the

observations mentioned in your paper in the Phil. Trans., which

could be examined without more ado, except of course as to making

the powder more transparent, which is not however essential and

which you would hardly care to do unless the preliminary observa-

tions should show something worth going into further.

The spectrum of anhydrous oxides might be very different from

that of solutions.

   I am not quite certain whether the absorption spectra you

Igive in your paper are those of the powders, anhydrous oxides or

mixtures of them, or of solutions of the salts; but rather suppose

the latter.

478 CAUSE OF LUMINOSITY OF RADIUM

                                                                         26, PRINCES SQUARE, W.,
                                                                           19 April, 1900.

   I think the experiment we talked of would be important in the
Iway of clearing the ground. According to the wagtail notion

  should expect the same luminosity in the half in air and in the

Ihalf in vacuum; according to the idea of kicks by molecules of air
  should expect the luminosity to be, not perhaps destroyed, since
no vacuum we can make is perfect, but at any rate greatly reduced.

                                     7, KENSINGTON  PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

DEAR SIR GEORGE,                                               April 21st, 1900.

              "Radium" was equally divided and put into two glass

cells. One was exhausted to the highest attainable point and
the other was kept open to the air. No difference could be
detected in their luminosity, and the impression on a photographic
plate after five minutes' action was of the same intensity in

each case.

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,                                   CAMBRIDGE,

                                                           23 April, 1900.

Thanks for the interesting information as to the result

of the experiment about "radium." The result is in accord with
what, in speaking to you, I called the "wagtail" theory of the
IBecquerel rays which ventured to throw out in my "Wilde"
Ilecture* at Manchester about two years ago.
                                                    have some copies,
Ibut cannot at the moment lay my hands on them or I would

send you one.
I have not seen the permanent luminosity of radium (oxide ?)
Imentioned.
               suppose it must have been noticed, but your
Iexperiment should think be published at such time as may

be deemed most suitable.

                                                    23 April, 1900.

The fact you showed me of the emission of light by

Iradium is extremely interesting. Did you discover it yourself, or
was it mentioned before?  do not recollect having seen it
Imentioned. The experiment you have just tried is
                                                       think

very important as helping greatly to clear our ideas.

* Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. v. pp. 254-277.

            IN PART RADIATION AND IN PART PROJECTION         479

    It seems pretty clear to my own mind now that the influence

of "radio-active" substances is of two kinds, absolutely different in
their nature; one an actual radiation, a disturbance of the ether,
and propagated by it; the other an emission of "radiant matter."
What you told me of the behaviour of radium shows that in
its case a considerable effect is due to a real radiation. Some
experiments of Lord Kelvin's on metallic uranium, mentioned in
Nature, show, as it seems to me, that in that case most of

the effect is due to radiant matter.

   IIAnd now have an experiment to propose which think may

help further to clear the ground. It is this. Divide your radium

into two portions, about equal, which are laid in two heaps as

nearly alike as may be, one on quartz, fairly thin if you happen to

have such a piece by you, at any rate not very thick, and the other

upon glass of somewhere about the same thickness. Lay the

quartz and glass side by side on a photographic plate, and give

them the same exposure. Develop. Will the two be much alike,
or will that under the quartz be distinctly darker?

                                                                                 23 April, 1900.

   I have come across, and send you, a copy of my Wilde
Ilecture. The little have said about the Becquerel rays is at

Ipp. 23, 24.                 drew in my letter just posted, from

    I retract the inference

Lord Kelvin's experiments with uranium, for he only examined
the effect of pressure on the rate of discharge by uranium of a

charged body. Now real radiation would not cause discharge
in the absence of gas, therefore feebleness of discharge, which

takes place when the air is exhausted, does not prove feebleness of

radiation.

               7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

     MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,                       April 24^, 1900.
                                the self-luminosity of radium
         I hasten to say that
                                I believe it was first mentioned
compounds is not my discovery.

by M. and Mdme. Curie in their papers on Radium in the Comptes

Rendus. It is a recognised fact now, so there is no objection

to your speaking about it. Becquerel also has described it.
I have an experiment now going on which is similar to the one
Iyou suggest.
               have a long flat plate of pitchblende which gives

480 EFFECT OF AIR ON LUMINOSITY OF RADIUM

Ia very uniform blackening all over its surface wHen laid on a
sensitive plate for 48 hours.  have cut strips of differently

Icoloured glass and arranged them between it and the sensitive
surface.  am contemplating trying all sorts of things in this

way, to see if there are differences of transparency among media.
Of course metals will vary greatly, but there must be some law,
Ipossibly according to density, or atomic weight.
                                                    don't think

there will be any difference between glass and quartz, from an

Iexperiment of a somewhat different kind I tried a little time ago.

But will try it again.

                                                  April With, 1900.

IThank you for your "Wilde" lecture.  remember reading a
Ireport of it at the time it was delivered. It was very hard to
follow, as it probably was reported incorrectly.    shall value the

present copy and study it.

   ISince writing to you about the results of the vacuum and air

experiment with the radium compound have printed a positive

Ifrom the negative. The image on the negative was very dense,

and could detect no difference in their intensities. When

printed, however, you see there is a slight difference in favour of

the radium which was not exhausted. This gives the bombard-

ment hypothesis an advantage over the wagtail one.

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,                                 1 May, 1900.

              Many thanks for the photographs showing the photo-

graphic effect of Radium, as produced through glass, according as

it has air about it or is in vacuum*.

   I think the result proves that the theory that the radiation is

due to kicks will not answer. At the same time the presence of
air may very well increase the radiation. To speak metaphorically,
if the dog wags his tail so as at each wag to strike against a
half opened door, the agitation he produces in the air may be
greater than if the wagging tail did not come against anything
but air. For air read ether; for the half opened door read a
molecule of air ; for the dog's tail read a sort of termination of

a molecular structure, agitations propagated into which become

     * The spectrum has been closely investigated by Sir W. and Lady Huggius

(Roy. Soc. Proc.) and later by Walter, and found to be the band-spectrum of the
nitrogen of the air.

           COLORATION OF GLASS BY RADIUM                                  481

more smart, in a manner analogous to the agitation produced
about the lower end of a chain suspended from one end, produced
by an agitation at the upper end, which travels down the chain.

                     IVY HOUSE, KINGSLAND, SHREWSBURY,

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,                     12 Dec., 1900.

         IComing here to-day put on a fur coat ; for though it
Iwas very mild thought it might be hard frost when I returned
Ion the 27th. It was not till my journey was just over that

Idiscovered in the breast pocket a stamped (but not posted) letter
addressed to you.  have opened it to see when it was written
and what it was about. I find it is dated 25 April, 1900! Doubt-
Iless I put it into my pocket to post, and there it slumbered ever

since. It is an old story now, but such as it is send it.

                   7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

MY UEAR SIR GEORGE,                   Dec. 14th, 1900.

I was glad to receive your letter of April 25, although,

as you say, it has been a long time coming. Reading it by
Ithe light of recent research
Iyour deductions.              am struck by the accuracy of

                   suppose by this time you are satisfied of
Ithe self emission of light by radium compounds?
                                                  have had

some in my desk for about a year, and it shines now as brightly as

it did originally. The whole of this time it has been practically in

darkness. The glass tube in which it is sealed is assuming a rich

purple colour, the result, probably, of the incessant bombardment,

day and night, by ultra-violet rays.

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,    IVY HOUSE, KINGSLAND, SHREWSBURY,

                                                          15 Dec., 1900.

         IYou told me of the purple colour of the wall of the tube

containing a radium compound, and asked if the colour were
superficial or penetrated into the glass, and you said it was

on the surface. But in your letter of yesterday you speak of

its probably being produced by incessant bombardment by the

Iultra-violet rays.
         should not myself use the term "bombardment" as applied to

the ultra-violet light, or to the Rontgen rays, though I should

s. B. ii.                                               31

482 SOURCE OF THE CATHODE RAYS FROM RADIUM

Ias applied to the cathodic rays.                          think it would be a convenient

nomenclature to speak of "rays," "jets" and "emanation," "rays"

referring to a disturbance propagated in the ether, "jets" to a

discharge of molecules, and "emanations"* including both. If

we meant to speak of an isolated portion of the whole emanation

we may use the expression emanation-thread.                        to

    If the radium emanation is of a mixed character, as appears    A

be the case, we may speak of it as consisting of rays and jets.

ray of light is decomposed by a prism into rays of different

refrangibility. A cathodic jet is decomposed by a magnet into
jets of different deflexibility. A radium emanation-thread is

Idecomposed by a magnet into a jet or jets and a ray. This

was found by Mr Strutt, Lord Rayleigh's son, though have not

followed the literature closely enough to allow me to say whether

he was the first to find it.

     The purple colour you mention may have been produced

by radium jets or radium rays. I should think the former more
Iprobable. When I say radium jets mean merely that the jets

were sent by radium; whether the propelled matter came from

the substance of the radium or from the air (or other gas) in

                     leave an open question, but think the latter
contact with  iIt,                                         is

                       is                                       1

                                                       a
more probable. It true that very highly concentrated Rontgen

rays act superficially on glass in manner detectable by certain

phenomena, but cathodic rays act much more strongly in a manner

to show itself. On the other hand glass containing much

manganese, used as "glass soap" in its manufacture, gets purple

after long exposure to light but this purple not superficial but
                                                     is ;
goes through, and    it      conceivable that radium rays might have

                          is

                           it
a similar effect, though does not seem probable.

     There might be some interest in deciding whether the purple

colour in your radium tube superficial or goes through. If the

wall be very thin this can hardly be done merely by looking at the

tube as you had up, but may be done by immersing the tube (or
              it it
such portion of as you care about) in water, or need be (should
                                                           if

Rthe glass wall be very thin) in some liquid of higher refractive
index. If R,       be the outer and inner radii of the tube        (I

fjLsuppose the outer and inner surfaces cylindrical and coaxial),
   the index of the glass, that of the fluid outside, we must have,
              is

                                                JJL
     * This term however now applied to the active gas discovered by Eutherford,
emitted from radio-active substances.

                     LOCATION OF COLORATION IN GLASS                                                                         483

in order that the boundary of the inner surface may be seen,
                         R less than
                         yu-          Rjfju.

                           f

                                           P fjf

                                               //
                                                  f

                                                                                              ,

                                                                        it,

                                                                                                                          ^
This gives for the thinnest wall that will permit

                         thickness =  R,

   If we take for glass = and for water = we find R for

the least thickness of wall that will allow the inner surface to be

seen. If the outer fluid be air the thickness of the wall must

exceed R, or even more there be some lead in the glass so that
//,                      if

    J                          I
> 1'5.
                                      went into the question whether
 If in my long-delayed letter

Becquerel had mentioned the permanent luminosity of certain

radium compounds, was not, as you seem to have supposed,it
from doubt as to the reality of the phenomenon after what
you had told me, but because wanted to see whether or not youI
had been anticipated by Becquerel.

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,            7,KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, W.,
                                                     Dec. 16th, 1900.
                                I
                     have been thinking long over the radio-activity ofI
the curious substances found in pitchblende, and am gradually
           a                          !

                                              I
coming to a somewhat different opinion to the one you expressed

in the letter, dated April 25th, but, alas only now received.

You consider the radio-activity of these bodies to be of two

kinds, utterly and completely different in their nature. That was

my view for long time, but experiments have been carrying
on for the last two or three months have made me think that one
                                      I
                                                 I
explanation may account for the two kinds of action.  am now

inclined to think that all the radio-active actions are to be

accounted for by the theory of "bodies smaller than atoms" pro-

pelled from R. A. substances.         thus suppress your (R) and

throw all the work on your (P). The objections to this are grave,
but think they may be answered, and this so we shall not
I                                     if

                 is                               is

be obliged to have two totally different explanations for sets of

phenomena which glide insensibly one into the other.
Your R
                     a disturbance in the ether and belongs to the

category of the Rontgen rays and ordinary light. The chief
differences between R and P are that R
                                              is  not affected by a

                                                      312

484 QUESTION WHETHER 7 RAYS ARE VERY SWIFT PROJECTIONS

magnet, and that it penetrates opaque bodies with more or less

facility. Both R and P affect a photographic plate, and both
make air a conductor of electricity. I will therefore give reasons

based on the magnetic and penetrating qualities.

   I consider that the magnetic deflection of the rays is simply a
Iquestion of degree. In a paper published in 1878 (Phil. Trans.,
IPart 1, 1879, pp. 157 161) showed the deflection by a magnet

was in proportion to the velocity of the radiant matter. At a

Ilow vacuum the deflection was great, while at the highest vacuum

  then could get the deflection was very little....! therefore look

on the non-deviability of the rays from Radium only as a proof

that they are projected with too great a velocity to be affected by

the magnet, or perhaps they carry a too small charge. The
Iradium rays are thus the extreme in one direction.
                                                      should use

similar arguments to show that the Rontgen rays were pro-

jections and not (directly) affections of the ether.
IThe greater penetrating action of R over P is more easily
answered.  take the case of polonium which emits rays or

emanations easily deflected by the magnet, and scarcely able to

penetrate any screen. The emanation scarcely extends many

                   and acts more like sea fog than like a ray
centimetres round  it,           a
                                     a
of light. Here however we flnd some few rays that are lessa

                            is
deflected than others, and in exposing photographic plate some

distance off, or behind screen closer to the polonium, after very

many days an impression seen.

    It may be urged that Thomson's ultra-atomic particles are

only existent theoretically, and no instance  is  known of such a

phenomenon as a gas or projection or emanation passing through

matter. It has long been known that certain gases would pass

through iron, platinum, palladium &c., at an increased temperature,
but these passages were explained by pores or flaws in the metal.

Now however has been shown by Villard (G. R. June 25, 1900),
that hydrogen will pass through fused quartz at a red heat

  temperature far below the softening point of the quartz. Now

  dense body like hydrogen gas will get through quartz, how much
I aa
   I

                       it

                                            iIf

                                                                                                is

                                                                                                                                                     ?

                                                           I

                                                                                    if
more easily will particles much smaller than the ordinary chemical

atom get through glass, aluminium and black paper

am trying many experiments to see                 can get anything

which can be considered crucial. The following, which am

repeating with many different active substances,      one on which

think an argument may be based.

                     EXPERIMENTAL EVIDENCE                485

   I took some active radium compound (the rays from which

are the most penetrating and least, if at all, deflected magneti-

cally) and put equal quantities in two adjacent cells turned out of

brass. Over cell A a wide lead tube was put, a few inches high.
Nothing was put over cell B. Now if the radiations from the

radium were of the nature of light the intensity of action at a

certain distance off would be the same whether a lead tube were

Iround it or not. On the top of the lead tube, and projecting over

the open cell of radium, put a photographic plate, the sensitive

surface being equidistant from both cells. On developing, hardly

any action was seen over the cell that was open the emanations

had diffused about and produced a general fog over all the plate

it could get at. But over the cell covered by the lead tube the

action was strong. Now two sources of light put in the positions

of cells A and B would have affected, say, the square centimetre

of plate immediately over each of them equally (allowing for

a trifling increase owing to reflection from the sides of the lead

tube). But were the emanations of a material character then they
would be confined by the lead tube, while where no tube was they

would diffuse away and produce a general fog.

IOne great argument against my view is that radium and
barium chloride is self-luminous.  could not get over this for

a long time, but it appears that to get self-luminosity we must
have some other substance present*. In my case it is barium, and

the colour of the luminosity is very like the phosphorescent glow

of a barium compound in a radiant matter tube. It is there-

fore reasonable to say that the self-luminosity is that of the

barium, rendered phosphorescent by the close approximation of

the emissive body radium.it,

    A mass of experiments tried during the last few months are

Itending towards the theory have ventured to put on paper.
I should be so thankful if you would give me your opinion, and

suggest, if you think well of some experiments which can be

considered crucial.

                     Believe me, very sincerely yours,

                                        WILLIAM CROOKES.

                     * Of. supra, p. 480.

486 PROTECTION AGAINST HYGROSCOPIC ACTION OF GLASS

                                                                           LENSFIELD, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                           15 April, 1901.

     DEAR SIR WILLIAM,

        I Ifeel rather presumptuous in what am about to write, as

if (to use a common proverb) I were "carrying coals to Newcastle."

Nevertheless if you should not have come across a recently-

unearthed paper written by an eminent man long since dead, the
thing may be of some interest to you.

   IWhat induced me to write was the failure (which have just

been made acquainted with) of an elaborate experimental research
by a student, consequent on the presence of a little vapour of

water which it was thought had been provided against. It is

Itrue the presence was found to be due to a small unexpected leak,

and not to moisture coming from glass walls, as conjectured

Iwhen read of the presence, but had not yet read on to the part
where it was accounted for; yet the idea I started with led me to

think of an interesting paper by Fraunhofer at p. 33 of his
Collected Works, a copy of which was recently sent me by the

Academy of Sciences at Munich. It is taken from an obscure

German serial not indexed by the Royal Society, and is entitled
" Versuche iiber die Ursacheri des Anlaufens und Mattwerdens
des Glases, und die Mittel, denselben zuvorzukommen."

    It occurred to me that possibly the walls of a glass vessel

intended for very high exhaustions of air or other gases might be
improved as to resistance to condensation of moisture by a very
simple process mentioned by Fraunhofer, namely, by filling the

vessel (tube, or whatever it might be) intended to be used with

concentrated sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, which is left in contact
with the glass for 24 hours or so before the glass is cleaned from
the acid.

     As to resistance to tarnish, much depends on the composition
of the glass. But even in using a glass of favourable composition
for resistance to tarnish, it struck me that perhaps the resistance
might be further improved by treatment with acid as mentioned
by Fraunhofer.

     How far improved resistance to alteration by moisture may be
accompanied by diminution of power of condensing on the surface

Iother gases, if there is any such diminution at all, is more than

can say.

ANOMALOUS EXPERIMENTS ON ELECTRIC LEAKAGE                 487

7, KENSINGTON PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,

MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,         May 28, 1901.

Your letter of the loth April has started me on some
I Iexperiments which wanted to complete before replying.
                                                          have

not been satisfied for a long time with the working of a delicate

aluminium-leaf electroscope of M. Curie's design. It would not

hold the charge for a sufficient time, and on speaking about it

to Professor Ayrton he suggested that there might be a little

leakage through the support of the Al leaf. We therefore tested

many supposed good insulators in the instrument, and the results

are in all cases disappointing.

    The edge of the Al leaf is viewed by a telescope containing a

ruled glass scale in the eyepiece, and the measures are the move-

ment of the leaf across the divisions per minute.

The original mounting was a mixture of sulphur and paraffin

wax, which is said to be an almost perfect insulator. With this

the leakage was 0'43 divs.

     The sulphur-paraffin was removed and the support was a long,
somewhat thin lead-glass rod, very carefully cleaned and artificially

dried. Here the leakage rose to 0'60 divs.
     Next we used quartz rods prepared by Shen stone, and treated

in various ways. To our surprise the leakage in this case was

Iworse than when glass was used, being 0'65 divs.
        now put into practice the hint conveyed in your letter.

I took some glass rods of lead glass (this glass is the best insu-

lator) and boiled them for some time in strong acids. They were
then thoroughly cleaned and artificially dried and tested. The

leakage here was 5*60 divs.

    From this experiment it seems as if the boiling in acids, which

has always been supposed to increase the insulating properties of
glass, has done much harm, and it is better not to interfere with

the original fused surface of the glass.
     Another thing that upsets our previous ideas is that quartz is

no such good insulator as it was thought to be.

     In all cases the interior of the apparatus was dried with

sulphuric acid.

     Professor Boys has suggested that the leakage observed is a
sort of invisible brush discharge from the sharp edges of the

aluminium leaf and the brass plate. I scarcely think this is the

488 INVESTIGATION OF LEAKAGE FROM METALS IN GASES

I Iexplanation, for were it so no electroscope would be able to hold
its charge.  have an idea that as have been working so long with

uranium and other active bodies from pitchblende, the instru-

ment has become soaked with these emanations, and the air

thereby is rendered a slight conductor. We know that radio-

activity, like some diseases, is catching, but the infected metal

or other body soon recovers when the strong radio-active sub-

stance is removed from near it.

                   Believe me, very truly yours,

                   THE ATHENAEUM, PALL MALL, S.W.,

                                 1 June, 1901.

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,

              That was a remarkable result which you obtained, that
the action of acid should have so promoted the leakage of

electricity. I notice one difference between your procedure and

that of Fraunhofer, viz. that he did not use heat with the acid.

IBut do not think it likely that your result was due to this.

     The most probable explanation seems to me to be that the

acid left the surface hyper-mi croscopically pitted, and that the

roughness, though too fine to be visible, facilitated the propulsion

of electrified molecules of the air or other gas. There is no

reasonable doubt, I think, that a perfect vacuum would be a perfect

insulator, and that the way in which points act in discharging

electricity is by... (as may be seen from the forms of the equi-

Ipotential surfaces) driving the electrified molecules away from
the charged body.  have been writing with a view to the differ-

ence between the acid-treated and the non-treated support.

                                                                            LENSFIELD, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                                                     4 June, 1901.

   I feel rather curious to know what acids they were that you

used in the treatment of your glass support.

    It is very remarkable how the leakage was increased by boiling

the glass with acid. Your immediate object was to get good
insulation. But the cause of the great leakage consequent on the
treatment with acids, which was quite unexpected, seems to be
worth trying to make out when leisure permits. Your wonderful
radiometer was the outcome of an investigation designed to follow
out the cause of obscure and minute indications of an attractive

                    RUTHERFORD'S EMANATIONS                                          489

or repulsive force, and you reaped a rich harvest of discovery. Who

can say what may lie hid under this unexpected action of acids?

As to the cause of the leakages 0'43, 0*60, 0'65, the fact that

the first is only about two-thirds of either of the others looks as if

Ifit took place not through the air but along the stem that supports
the leaves.    however it took place, not by creeping along the

stem, but by convection through the air,      conceivable that
                                           ifc

                                              is

                                                         I

                                                                           is it
might depend, not only on the nature of the gas surrounding the

leaves, but upon the nature of the leaves themselves. It

conceivable that there might be more from aluminium than from

gold, the metal usually employed for a leaf electroscope.                            do not

know whether experience has shown that aluminium under ordi-

nary circumstances holds as well as gold.

However, there no use in a tyro like myself speculating in
it
these things.
  II
          is                                      14 June, 1901.
                       is
     This week's Nature contains (p. 157) an interesting paper by
Professor Rutherford on the emanation from radium. In he
                                           a
                                                                   p.

                                                                        it
refers to an interesting paper by Mm. Curie and Debierne, which

somehow      had missed reading though the number was in my

house. It      C. R. for March 25, 1901 (Vol. 132,                                   768). It

seems they got the active substance as gas, which when thus

obtained partly separated was wonderfully active. From its dif-

fusibility Rutherford estimates the molecular weight as somewhat

high, say between 40 and 100.

    If can thus be got mixed with air as a gas, there seems hope

of making out something more about it. But probably you have

seen these papers.

When see the numbers you mentioned, may be better able
                                           I

to guess what the experimental behaviour as to the additional
electric leakage due to "infection " may be, and therefore better

able to see or guess how best to correct for it.

DEAR SIR GEORGE,                              June 15th, 1901.

         Like you missed the paper of Curie and Debierne in
I

   is I

            a

              I

                                                      is
                                                                                 is

                                                   I
the C. R. will look at it. Rutherford's paper very interesting,

but cannot agree that the chief radio-active body in pitch-

blende       gas, in the ordinary meaning of the word.                               have long

had an idea that the radio-activity  produced by the separation

of material particles (probably Thomsonian ultra-atomic) from a

490 ANALOGY OF EMANATION WITH ELECTRICAL EVAPORATION

body or bodies contained in pitchblende. These particles are

"ionised" or charged with negative electricity, and temporarily
may possess the properties of a gas, or vapour. The great differ-

ence in action between radium and polonium shows that there is

more than one body capable of so liberating small corpuscles, but

Iwhat is the special peculiarity which enables these bodies to allow
particles to be chipped off we do not know.  think my work on

IElectrical Evaporation (copy enclosed) throws some light on these
obscure actions.  can imagine if a body has some of its con-

stituent particles lightly held, they will be apt to fly off under
the influence of an extra negative charge. At the surface of any

Ivolatile liquid molecules are continually flying off into the air,

and have shown that the surface of a (so-called) fixed solid,
under electrical stress, behaves in the same way, giving off

particles and actually distilling onto adjacent surfaces. These

particles, in the act of distilling, would very likely act as radio-

Iactive bodies. The ordinary substances, such as gold, cadmium,

&c., experimented with, only behave in this manner when under

added electrical stress; but suppose there be bodies which are

capable of temporarily fixing additional atoms of electricity

unstable perelectrides these might have in themselves a sufficient

surcharge of electricity to become temporarily volatile, and the

gradual dissipation of the extra atoms of electricity would produce

Iall the phenomena of radio-activity.  feel as it were groping in
     Forgive my crude speculations.
Ifan unknown laboratory in the dark.
                                       by any means we can

evolve a spark of light in any direction it is one's duty to follow it

I Iup. hope you will not think what have said utter nonsense !
   I have left no time to copy out and send you the figures con-

Inected with the electric leakage experiments, but will try and

send them this afternoon.

                  Believe me, very sincerely yours,

                                                                                  June 15, 1901.

   I wished to see if I could carry down radio-activity by

precipitating barium sulphate in the presence of a radio-active

Ibody. Thoria was the radio-active body used, and precipitated

Isuccessive lots of barium sulphate in the presence of the same lot

of thoria. My idea was to see if could exhaust the activity of

Ithe thoria in this way, and eventually get a thoria inactive.

DECAY OF RADIO-ACTIVITY                                      491

precipitated ten successive lots of barium sulphate, with the
following results :

Empty electroscope, time required to sink (leak) 5 C  240"
Electroscope + pure thoria                              40"

                     + pure barium sulphate           240"

Electroscope empty                                    600"
                     + barium sulphate, No. 1 ppt.    190"

empty                                                 600"
+ barium sulphate, No. 2 ppt.                         405"

empty                                                 550"
+ barium sulphate, No. 3 ppt.                          42"

empty                                                 600"
+ barium sulphate, No. 4 ppt.                          80"

empty                                                 570"
+ barium sulphate, No. 5 ppt.                         300"

empty                                                 600"
+ barium sulphate, No. 6 ppt.                         105"

empty                                                 600"
+ barium, No. 7 ppt.                                  240"

empty                                                 465"
+ barium, No. 8 ppt.                                  315"

empty                                                 510"
+ barium, No. 9 ppt.                                  285"

empty                                                 510"
+ barium, No. 10 ppt.                                 410"

empty                                                 430"
+ barium, No. 11 ppt.                                 350"

     These obervations of the activity of the barium sulphate

Iprecipitates were taken a short time ago (Feb. 18). On Sep. 14
  took the same precipitates just after they had been precipitated
and dried. They were much more active. Their action varied
between 2" and 20". This shows that the radio-activity conferred
on barium sulphate by its being precipitated in the presence of

thoria is only a temporary quality. A few experiments at that

time showed that heating the active barium sulphate to redness

Idid not appreciably impair its activity.
           have worked out the electric radio-activity by the method

492 THEORY OF INCANDESCENT GAS MANTLES

you gave me, and from the look of the figures I should think theyI is,              I

were accurate, as far as possible when the results are so varying

and sometimes contradictory. But there is one thing I should

like to manage, if possible. The figures as got by the "reciprocal"

method come out upside down. That the strongest stuff gives
the lowest figure, and the weakest stuff the highest figure.
want to express the results so that can plot the two curves
superposed for comparison.

                                                                            LENSFIELD, CAMBRIDGE,

   DEAR SIR WILLIAM,                                            17 June, 1901.

            Just for curiosity, tried                           could see any relation
              I
                       I

                           is I
                                      iIf
between the amount of activity of your precipitates and their order

of sequence, but such did not find. It was indeed not to be

expected that should, so much as to the thorium carried down

with the barium sulphate likely to depend on the manipulation

of the precipitation. It will be more interesting to see whether

the electricity-discharging and the photographic effects correspond.

                                                                28 Nov., 1901.

   In connexion with some speculations about fluorescence and

phosphorescence, and about the theory of incandescent mantles,

I  should like to ask whether you have tried the effect of thoria

in bringing out the citron line due to a trace of yttria.       I               mean

under electric bombardment.

     My speculations lead me to think that lime, zirconia and
thoria might be very good, and perhaps in that order. You
specially remarked the thing with reference to lime.

      P.S.II  have just dipped into your abstract in Proc. R. 8.
Vol. 38.       should expect that thoria would bring out well the
spectrum    of samaria.

                                             KENSINGTON7,PARK GARDENS, LONDON, W.,
                                                             Nov. 30th, 1901.
   MY DEAR SIR GEORGE,    I

   ;          have tried the three experiments suggested in your

     I                       made three mixtures in the form of
letter of the 28th inst.

nitrates they then were evaporated to dryriess and ignited with

sulphuric acid and put into three separate vacuum tubes con-

nected together in series, so that the exhaustion and treatment

might be the same in each case.

ELECTRIC PHOSPHORESCENCE OF MIXED RARE EARTHS 493

Mixture No. 1 contained                   (Samaria 100
                                              LT i.me
                                          {             80.
                                          (

Mixture No. 2 contained                   f Samaria 100
                                              Zi.rcoma
                                          {             60.
                                          [

I Mixture No. 3 cont,ai.ned,              f Samaria 100
                                          1             5K0n.
                                           [  Thona

took different proportions as the atomic weights of the three

added earths differ, thoria being the heaviest and lime the lightest.

The tubes were well exhausted and heated so as to get the

most favourable conditions for phosphorescence.        They were then

sealed off and left all night.

This morning the calcium tube phosphoresced brilliantly. The

thoria tube offered much higher resistance to the spark, but after

a little time it also phosphoresced well, but not so well as the

I Ilime tube. The zirconia tube was non-conducting, and it was

only when warmed it with a gas flame that could get the spark

to pass. Then the phosphorescence was very poor, and the tube

seemed full of gas (fog).

    I allowed the tubes to rest for some time, and then connected

the lime and the thoria tubes together in series, so that the same

spark should pass each. At first the thoria tube offered great

Iresistance ; the lime tube phosphoresced well, but the spark struck
across the terminals of the thoria tube.      then, with a gas flame,

carefully heated both tubes, taking care not to heat one more

than the other. The thoria tube then phosphoresced well, and

there was little difference to be seen between the two tubes.

   I put the lime and the zirconia tubes in series in the same way,

but could not get a good phosphorescence of the zirconia tube.

My opinion is that lime is the best of the three to induce

phosphorescence.  The tube retains its condition and will allow-

stronger sparks to pass without injury, while at the same time it

will phosphoresce with a very weak spark. Thoria has a tendency
to increase the vacuum till it will not conduct, although when

heated it induces phosphorescence almost as well as the lime.

Zirconia is far inferior to the other two. It requires much atten-

tion to the vacuum and the heating to get it to phosphoresce,
and when sealed off at the best point it rapidly deteriorates in
condition, and it cannot by subsequent heating be brought to its

Ioriginal (poor) condition.
        am quite at your service for any further experiments you

would like to be tried.

494 DILUTION FAVOURABLE TO FLUORESCENCE

                   LENSFIELD, CAMBRIDGE,

                                              9 Dec., 1901.

DEAR SIR WILLIAM,

I am afraid you will think me ungrateful for not having

written before to thank you for your kindness in trying some
Iexperiments
              had thought of. About the time your letter
Ireached me was engaged in winding up my lectures for the
Iterm (for though am in my 83rd year I still go on lecturing),
Iand besides on two days we had friends here; and further

wanted to look into the subject before writing to you.

   I must plead guilty to having caused you needless trouble, by

trusting too much to my memory instead of having looked into

Iyour papers again to see whether my memory was correct.
Ithought recollected that you had failed to get the citron line

of yttria even when that earth was present in abundance, but

obtained it well when that earth was mixed with a relatively

Ilarge quantity of lime. Trusting to this supposed recollection,

imagined that the failure to get the citron line of yttria even when

there was plenty of the earth present might have been due to too

great concentration, and that the office of the lime was to dilute
the yttria ; just as a very strong solution of sulphate of quinine

does not show the fluorescence as well as a dilute solution.

   I have now read the abstract of your paper in the Proceedings
IR. S., Vol. 35, p. 262, and see my memory was wrong, and that

your failure to get the citron line was due to the non-employment

of sulphuric acid, the excess of which is afterwards driven off by

heat. It looks as if the molecular group which gives the citron

line is anhydrous sulphate of yttria, or perhaps (when lime is

employed) an anhydrous double sulphate of yttria and lime.

Regretting the having caused you needless trouble by neglect-

ing to look into your papers before writing,

                   I remain, Yours sincerely,

                                              G. G. STOKES.

   SUPPOSED EXCITATION OF RONTGEN RAYS BY LIGHT 495

   CORRESPONDENCE WITH PROF. S. P. THOMPSON, F.R.S.

                                                Feb. 28, 1896.

   DEAR SIR GEORGE STOKES,

   I made yesterday an observation of such curious interest
IIthat am minded to bring it before your notice.
                                                   find that if a

phosphorescent substance such as sulphide of Barium is exposed

to ordinary white light so as to be well insolated, and brought to

the shining condition, it emits afterwards (and apparently also
during illumination) not only ordinary light that can be cut off
with an aluminium sheet, but also something else that is not cut

off by aluminium, and in this respect at any rate, the same as
                        It is,
                             it it

                                   is
the X-rays of Rontgen, that can traverse aluminium and act on

a  photographic plate.                      true that there are fluorescent

(or phosphorescent) substances that deviate from your law of

degradation of frequency (or wave-length), this would seem to

present an extreme case of such deviation. But     if  these be

Rontgen's rays, then have succeeded in manufacturing them
                  ?
out of common light by sort of reversal of the process of
                     II
                                         a
fluorescence. Do you know of any other instance in which

fluorescence or phosphorescence has been found to be reversible

in its operation

                        am, Yours most sincerely,

                                            SILV. P. THOMPSON.

                                                   29 Feb. 1896.

   DEAR PROFESSOR THOMPSON,

   Your discovery                           extremely interesting you will
                        is                      I;                        I

presume publish   without delay, especially as so many are nowI
                  it

                    I
working at the X-rays.

   For my own part am not at all disposed to believe that the

Rontgen rays are due to normal vibrations, the hypothesis to

which Rontgen himself leans.                think far more probable that
                                            it

they are transversal vibrations of excessive frequencv. That

being the case, think what you have discovered belongs to the
   I

       I
same class of phenomena as Tyndall's calorescence. For a very

long time have thrown overboard the conjecture made in my

paper of 1852 as to the cause of fluorescence, and have regarded

496 FLUORESCENCE AND CALORESCENCE

it as a disturbance extending from more limited to more extensive

Imolecular groups. Long ago (I happen to have a memorandum

fixing it to 1886) arrived at a little interesting dynamical
problem throwing an interesting light on the way in which the

period got lengthened, but I did not publish the result*. I look

on calorescence as an agitation passing from wider to more minute

Imolecular groups. In your discovery, think we have something

of the nature of calorescence ; only that whereas in Tyndall's work

the disturbance was excited in the first instance in wider molecular

groups, in yours the wider groups are already something like the

chemical molecules of the peculiar substance.
I am in correspondence with Lord Kelvin about the Rontgen
Irays, and should like to refer to your discovery, but do not
Imean to do so till you have published your result.
                                                     should be

glad therefore of a notice of the publication. Perhaps you may

Ibe writing to him yourself. Of course if you have done so am

free to say anything to him. He is very enthusiastic, and might

let something slip out without thinking about it.

                                 Yours very truly,

                                               G. G. STOKES.

                                                   2 March, 1896.

I fear you have already been anticipated. See Becquerel,

Comptes Rendus for Feb. 24, p. 420, and some papers in two or

three meetings preceding thatf.
It seems probable that the agent in this and in your case is
Ithe X-rays, but their nature has yet to be made out.
                                                       think

it most probable that they are transverse vibrations of extreme

frequency, but that has yet to be made out. The supposition is

by no means exempt from difficulty.

     [* Of. addition (1901) in Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol. in. p. 410.]
    [t This was Becquerel's cardinal discovery of radio-activity in uranium salts.
Prof. Thompson's letter describing his experiments, of later date, as given above,
and to which Prof. Stokes' letters kindly lent by Prof. Thompson are in reply,
specified sulphide of barium, which is not sensibly radio-active; but in answer to
an inquiry he now states that he had been trying various substances, including

uranium nitrate, and that he had found, conclusively on Feb. 267, that the latter

was the only one to which the aluminium foil was not opaque, though black paper

was transparent to others.]

EXPERIMENTS ON ABSORPTION IN FLUORESCENCE                        497

                                                  28 May, 1896.

    It may be worth while to mention to you a little experiment,

Ithough containing nothing new in principle.
        made a solution of Uranine in water, using very little of the

substance, so as to get a solution showing well the fluorescence.

ITying a thread round the brick of Calcium Sulphide you gave me,
   exposed it to daylight (the sun not shining at the time) and
then carried it into a dark room and immersed it in the solution.

The blue light emitted was absorbed by the solution, so that the
brick was not seen glowing with the usual blue light unless it
were so hung in the solution that the blue rays which it admitted
had but a small path to traverse in the solution before they
emerged from the wall of the glass vessel containing the solution
on the side next the eye. But they excited the phosphorescence
of the solution so that the brick was seen enveloped with a mantle
of green light, fitting it more or less closely according to the

strength of the solution.

    I tried the experiment yesterday, putting the brick into a

narrow glass vessel (I did not happen to have by me a test tube

broad enough to admit it) and dipping the containing vessel into
the beaker containing the solution. However the brick admits of

being put into the solution without being spoiled by the wetting.

     There is of course nothing new in principle in the experiment.

I may mention a little experiment I tried about I suppose 43 years
Iago. took three fluorescent media, A, a solution of sulphate of

quinine, B, a slab of uranium glass, C, a madder solution, virtually

a solution of purpurine in alum solution. The solutions were

contained in vessels with glass sides. The sun's light was reflected

horizontally into a darkened room and passed through a lens so as

to form a narrow concentrated beam which was passed into one of

the solutions, or the glass slab, as the case might be. A little way

from the fluorescent beam, in a lateral direction, was placed a lens

to form a real image of the fluorescent beam, and this image was

received in another of the media. When the first medium was A,
the image of the fluorescent beam excited fluorescence in B and

but not in A. When the first medium was the image excited
I
                    0,
                                A
                                                               it B,
                                           I
                                                                                             C,
                                                                                                is

                                                                                                                                                  (7,
fluorescence in but not in or B. When was the image

did not excite fluorescence in any of the three.  don't recollect

that ever mentioned this experiment to anyone, the thing so

s. B. ii.                                         32

498 QUENCHING OF PHOSPHORESCENCE BY LOWER RADIATIONS

obvious. The principle is just the same as in the experiment with

the brick.

     IP.S. may as well mention, in case you should not have seen

it,  that in the last number of the Comptes Rendus     is  a paper by

Becquerel in which he mentioned that the metallic uranium shows

the remarkable phenomenon which you and he discovered*, in-

dependently, about four times as strongly as the salts of uranium

he had previously used.

                                                       26 Sept. 1900.

     Thanks for your letter of the 24th in which you mention the

best way of using the brick form of the phosphorus.        is     have

informed my friend in Ireland, who told me he had ordered a is I

brick.

II          have tried on a larger scale the use of melted paraffin

instead of hot water as vehicle for the slightly waxed powder
which Mr Home sells in cans, and seems to promise to be very
                         a                                             is f
successful.
                                 it
            had not noticed the brownishness of the phosphorus while inis
the phosphorus condition. It           it
                                of course well known that the

rays of lower refrangibility than those that excite the sulphide of

calcium, when allowed to fall on a plate already phosphorescing

Ifrom previous exposure, cause to give out light (of a whiter tint,
as have noticed) until the result of the previous exposure
exhausted. The rays thus working must doubtless be absorbed.

But had not occurred to me that this absorption might be
      it it
sufficient to cause the plate to appear to be sensibly less luminous

than           would be  if     had not been exposed at all, and were
                            it

subjected to the action of the lower rays as above mentioned.
  do not however think that the whole of the brownishness thus
I

to be accounted for.            have in my mind to try an experiment
                         II     it

                                       a
with view to seeing whether any sensible amount            thus to
            a

be accounted for. But think good deal accounted for by
                                               is
ordinary absorption, irrespective of previous exposure. Foris          it I
noticed that with paraffin, and still more with bisulphide of

carbon, a very decided brownishness        is  seen independently, as

would seem, of previous exposure. There but little of this to

          See footnote supra, p. 496.][t [*A                                         a
              special preparation of sulphide of calcium protected from moisture by

coating of wax.]

WHETHER BODIES WHEN PHOSPHORESCENT BECOME DARKER 499

be seen when the powder is exposed to the action of hot water,

as recommended in a paper on the cans. There is more when

If I Iparaffin is the vehicle, and still more when bisulphide of carbon is
used.    I try the experiment was thinking of, will let you

know the result.

                                                  3 Oct. 1900.

I Ihave tried your experiment a few times, but cannot say
IIthat have succeeded. Sometimes
                                    seemed to have a slight

suspicion that perhaps the unexposed substance might have been

of a slightly paler brownish colour than the part that had been

exposed, but it did not go beyond a possible suspicion. The

Idifference between our results may very probably have been due

to the employment of a different material ; used the substance

Ifrom a can, you very likely used a brick, which have not at

present tried.

   I think in all probability almost the whole of the slight

brownishness in my trials was due to a real absorption indepen-

dent of exposure, the effect of which in the case of a powder

would come out much more strongly if the powder were im-

pregnated with a liquid of approximately the same refractive

index, and which did not act chemically upon it.
IParaffin answered extremely well.
                                    could only try on some
Iof Home's powder that had been already slightly waxed.
                                                         think

for chemical reasons that paraffin might very likely be rather
Isuperior to wax.
                   have half a mind to write to Mr Home.
I Idon't suppose that it would be disagreeable to you that

should.

                                    Yours very truly,

                                    G. G. STOKES.

                         OF THE

                  UNIVERSITY

                                OF


                                  INDEX TO VOL. II.

Aberdeen, Maxwell professor at, 2.                  Baily, F. , on viscosity of air, 104;
                                                       partial explanation of discrepancies,
Aberration, correction of, 87; spherical,               105 ; reduction of his pendulum ex-
                                                       periments, anomalies, 317; gravity
90 ; accuracy required, 91 ; condition                 observations, 325.
of test, 92 ; studied by caustics, 195.
                                                    Barometer, contracted, lag determined r
Absorption of light, dynamics of, 79,                  217 ; rule, 219 ; capillary error, 223.
   85 ; in fluorescence, 497.
Acetylene, Pliicker on spectrum of, 72.             Barometer traces, 182 ; diurnal varia-
Achromatic compensation, 89.                           tions harmonically analysed, 224.
Actinometer, test of Violle's, 241.
Adams Prize subject, 113.                           Becquerel, E., anticipations of fluor-

Air resistance to pendulums, theory,                    escence, 78.
276 ; change of type at high exhaus-
   tions, 283.                                      Becquerel, H., discovery of radio-
                                                       activity, 496.
Airy, Sir G. B., 159192; tidal theory,
   174 ; on seiches, 178, in Baltic, 182 ;          Bessel, F. W., on pendulums, 255.
on defect of gravity over continents,               Blair, achromatic combinations, 90.
                                                    Blue sky, history of explanation, 101.
    315.                                            Bore in air, due to flying bullets, 338 ;

Akin, C. H., 85.                                        optical analysis of, 340.

American pendulum survey, 309 ; pro-                Boys, C. V., 327362; spectra from
posed connection with Europe, 313.
Andrews, T., Maxwell's theory of his                    quartz fibres, 327 ; on wakes of flying
critical point, 34 ; change of volume                  bullets, 338 ; observation of thermal
in tubes under compression, 126 ;                      radiation in eclipses, 357.
compressibility of mercury, 128; post-              Brewster, Sir David, Maxwell on his
humous papers, 130.                                    views of composition of light, 21 ; on
                                                        spectra, 84.
Anemometer cups, 230 ; constants of                 Bun sen, E. W., spectrum analysis, 75, 81.
                                                    Burrard, Col. S. G., on Indian Pendulum
pressure plate, 231 ; for plates of                    Survey, 297.
various forms, 232; effect of edges,
234 ; oblique wind, 235 ; bridled cups,             Calorescence and phosphorescence, 496.
235, 251 ; mutual masking, 236 ; ex-                Cathode rays, Pliicker on their fluores-
periments, 238; pressure-tube com-
pared with cups, 245 ; free exposure                    cence, 69.
essential, 245 ; with bridled cups,                 Cathode stream, consists of projected
247 ; errors of inertia, 349.
                                                        particles, 411 ; only alternative is
Angstrom on theory of spectrum analy-                   result of adjacent phosphorescence,
                                                        412; tests, 413; importance of, 416;
    sis, 76, 82.                                       by phosphorescence of a thin film
                                                        on the glass, 418 ; focus tube con-
Arago, F., Maxwell on his electric rota-                structed, 415 ; proves direction of
tions, 32.                                              projection normal, 419 ; unresisted
                                                        except by collisions, 421 ; possible
Argon, early guesses about, 445, 447 ;                  electric attraction, 423, 439 ; its ori-
                                                        gin, 424; experiments with continuous
spectrum of, 446, 480.                                  current, 429, replaced by strobo-
                                                        scopic observation, 430 ; Maxwell's
Asymptotic expansions, Stokes' early,                   analysis of, 437 ; return current of
                                                        positive ions, 438 ; not aether effects,
160.                                                    474 ; foreign opinion, 475 ; general
                                                       evidence, 476 ; from radium, 482.
Atmospheric electricity separated by                Cauchy, A. L., on waves, 175.
gravity, 131 ; how originated, 131 ;
thundercloud, nature of condensation                                        323

necessary to activity, 132.
Attraction, the volume distributions

   which  pLroodrduce(SsiramJe.,   163.      Brit.
Avebury,                          Lubbock),

Assoc. Presidential Address, 74.

S. B. II,

502 INDEX TO VOL. II.

Cavendish, H., Maxwell's edition of Ke-         380 ; applied to radiometer, 382 ;
                                                changing zero, 384.
     searehes, 40.                          Dichroic absorption, 7, 11.
                                            Diffracted light, ratio to transmitted,
Cavendish experiment, precautions in,           331; dynamical theory, 333.
   Baily's anomalies, 468 ; voltaic dis-    Diffraction, decomposition of distur-
    turbance when balls not gilded, 470,        bances at wave-front not definite, 110 ;
    screened off by wire cage, 471.             impossible to satisfy motion on both
                                                sides at once, 111 ; diffraction by
Cayley, A., 4.                                  small spheres, dynamical theory, 162 ;
                                                diffraction from thin quartz fibres,
Challis, J., on sound-bores, 161.               327, polarizations of the bands, 330,
                                                calculated results, 332, appearances
Chart of progress of storm-vortex at            produced thereby, 334, spurious bands
                                                due to source of light, 335 ; of a sound-
     sea, 145.
Chlorophyll, Maxwell on, 1.                     bore, 341.

Christie, Sir W. H. M., on photographic     Dilution favourable to fluorescence, 494.
   telescopes, 1936.                        Dines, W. H., on cup anemometer, 230;

Chromosphere, nature of solar, 77.              pressure plate whirled, 231.
Chronograph for pendulum observations,      Discontinuity, propagation of, in sound-

     310.                                        waves, 103.
Chrystal, G., on seiches, 178.              Dispersion, relation to refraction, 89 ;
Clark, Latimer, electrodynamometer, 33.
Clausius, H., on gas-theory, 8.                 specific effects of acids and bases, 94 ;
                                                rule for predicting, 95 ; nitre anoma-
Clifton, R. B., appointed Professor at          lous, 96.
    Manchester, 82.                         Doppler, 77.
                                            Double refraction, tentative Stokes-
Clocks, accuracy of pendulum, 299.              Kankine-Kayleigh theory, 100 ; tested
Clouds, determination of height and             by Stokes, 100.
                                            Dynamos, Maxwell's theory of self-ex-
    velocity by photographs, 226.               citing, 28.
Coincidences, method of, with pendu-
                                            Earth's figure, theory of relation to
    lums, 300; relative merits, 302; error     gravity, 274 ; in mountainous region,
   arising from clockwork, 304 ; prin-
    ciple, 307 ; compared with chrono-          275.
    graph, 310.                             Eclipse, on moon's heat in, 358.
Colloids, Graham on optical relations       Eddies, effect on pendulum, 284 ; test
    of, 73.
Colour-blindness caused by absorption,          for existence, 318.
    influence of yellow spot, 15, 20;       Eisenlohr, F., 102.
    doubts, 121 ; test by Haidinger's       Elastic modulus, measurement by pres-
    brushes, 121.
Colour-box, Maxwell's, 5, 16.                  sure in tubes, 128.
Colour- vision, Maxwell on, 5; on Helm-     Elastic tubes, compressed, change of
    holtz's, 5 ; on colour-blindness, 11,
    16, 18 ; on colour-cone, preparing for      volume, 126.
    publication, 12, 14, 15.                Electric units, Maxwell on ratio of, 26.
Coma, optical, 194.
Compound gases, spectra of, 72.               ,, sparks, projection of metallic par-
Compressibility of mercury, method,                    ticles, 442.

    128, 130.                                 ,, leakage in rarefied air, 469; anoma-
Cooling, law of, 286 ; tested by swinging              lous, 487 ; from metals in gases,
                                                         488.
    pendulum, 287 ; time lag, 288 ; test,
                                            Electrokinetic shielding, train of images,
    289.                                        32.

Cornu, A., new reduction of Baily's         Electrostatic problems, 29, 31.
    gravity experiments, 325 ; his com-     Electrotonic state, Maxwell's, 4, 424.
    pensated quartz prisms, 455, must be    Emanations, radio-active, 489 ; analogy
   in contact, 462.
                                               with electrical evaporation, 490.
Corona, from fog, 116 ; solar, thermal      Errors separated from perturbations,
   radiation of, 360.
                                                407.
Crookes, Sir W., 362494; collabora-
                                            Everett, J. D., elastic moduli of glass,
    tion with Stokes, 362 ; congratula-
   tions, 363.                                  127.
Critical temperature, Maxwell on ther-      Explosion, ring shadow propagated
   modynamics of, 35.
                                               from, 349 ; progress, 353 ; effect of
Dark space in vacuum tube, spectrum            pressure on combustion, 355 ; wave-
   of focus-glow inside, 432.                  transfer, 356, upward projection, 357.

Decrement, log. of swings, 368 ; method
   of calculation, 371, 379 ; abbreviated,

INDEX TO VOL. II.                               503

Eye, chromatic aberration of, chess-                125 ; early photography of optical
    board effect, 59.                               gratings, 100.
                                                 Gravity surveys and pendulums, 253 ;
Faraday, M., magneto-optic relation,                relation to trigonometrical survey, 273 ;
                                                    why defective over continents, 314.
     167.                                       Greenwich refractor adopted, 193.
Figures, Maxwell on retention of signi-         Grubb, T. and H., optical practice, 92 ;
                                                    absence of coma, 194.
    ficant, 39.
FitzGerald, G. F., Maxwell on his               Haidinger's brushes, Maxwell on, 1 ;
                                                    due to yellow pigment, 121 ; best con-
    theory of electric reflection, 40 ; on          ditions for seeing, 122, 123.
    magneto-optic reflection, 41 ; early
     guesses on argon, 445.                     Haidinger, W. von, 52 61 ; surface
Fizeau, H., supposed influence of earth's           colour in crystals, 52 ; herapathite,
    motion on diffraction, 24.                      54 ; his brushes, 53, 60.
Fluid motion, transition from viscous
    to Motionless, not unique, 113.             Harcourt, Eev. W. V., on optical glass,
Fluorescence, Haidinger on, 55 ; as dis-           8697, 98.
    tinct from surface colour, 56 ; polari-
    zation in, 57 ; history of, 78 ; theory     Harmonic analyser, uses of, 197, 200 ;
    of, 480 ; dilution favours, 494 ; and           construction, 198 ; limitations on use,
    absorption, 497 ; method for ultra-             199 ; design, 200 ; preliminary use,
    violet spectra, 364.                            204 ; interpolation in curve, 206 ;
Fog, importance of diffracted light in,             practical efficiency tested, 207; whether
    116 ; compared with refracted, 116.             three terms suffice, 209 ; tests of work-
Foucault, L., artificial production of D            ing, 214; defects, 215; errors, 216,
    lines, 75, 82.                                  243 ; its work, 242.
Fourier's analysis, 29, 125.
Fox Talbot, on spectrum analysis, 75.           Harmonic analysis, clearance from pro-
                                                    gressive change, 201 ; analysis of
Fraunhofer, J., on intensity of colours,            residue, theory, 202 ; procedure with
   24 ; on identity of D lines on earth             analyser, 203 ; examination of re-
   and in sun, 75, 83 ; absence of coma             siduals, 210; delicacy tested, 213.

    in his telescopes, 194.                     Haze contrasted with fog, 117.
Friction effaces rapid fluctuations, 220 ;      Heat, mechanical equivalent, history,

    friction of a pivot, 368, 376, 408.            51 ; molecular convection in vacua,
Froude, W., on ship oscillations, 153 8 ;           392, 399, 403, is small, 393.
                                                Helmert on Indian pendulums, 296.
    on wave groups, 157 ; on relation of        Helmholtz,H.von, on thunderclouds, 132.
    viscosity to temperature, 158.              Herapath, J., on gas theory, 10.
                                                Herschel, Alex., 3.
Gas, fall in viscosity at high exhaus-          Herschel, Col. J., 299309.
   tions, 374 ; does it depend only on
    pressure? 385, 441.                         Herschel, Sir J. F. W., the spectrum as

Gas-theory, Maxwell and Clausius on                 extended by fluorescence, 78 ; share
    free path, 8 ; theories of friction and        in invention of photography, 79 ; on
    diffusion, 9 ; Maxwell's law of vis-            optical instruments, 87 ; absence of
    cosity, 10 ; of distribution and mean          coma, 194.
   energy, 10 ; publication, 11 ; equili-       Himalayas, deficiency of matter under,
   brium of temperature in gas-column,              overestimated, 298.
                                                Hittorf, W., and Pliicker, on spectra of
    27.                                             gases, 71.
Geodesy, contributions to, 271.                 Horn, W. P., on silicic glass, 97.
Gerstner, on cycloidal waves, 177.              Hornstein's magnetic law questioned,
                                                    165.
Gibbs, J. Wiilard, Maxwell's indepen-           Huggins, Sir W. and Lady, on spectrum
                                                   of luminosity of radium, 480.
   dent exposition of his thermodynamic         Hull, E., Continental gravity, 313.
   potential, 34; on varying surface-           Hysteresis, Maxwell on, 36.
   tension, 114.
                                                Idle pole in vacuum tube, its electrifica-
Glaisher, J., on terrestrial magnetic              tion, 425 ; influence not statical, 431,

   relations, 165.                                  440.
Glass, optical, Harcourt's, 86 ; condi-         Incandescent gas mantles, theory, 492.

   tions of stability of, 97 ; cure of hy-      Indian Pendulum Survey, report on,
   groscopic action in glass, 487.                 258 ; verification of pendulums, 260 ;
Glasses, distinguished by phosphores-              history, 272, 296 ; advantage of a
    cence, 196.                                    Himalayan station, 275.
Graham, T., on diffusion of gases, 11 ;
   on optical tests of nature of colloids, 73.
Grating, field of force of electrified, 29 ;
   resolves light into regular streams,

504 INDEX TO VOL. II.

Interference, possible, of transmitted                     Lucretius, on atoms, 27.
   and diffracted lights in fibre, 335.                    Lunar heat, stopped by glass, 359 ; uni-

Interpolation, parabolic, 449.                                form from all parts of disc, 359,
                                                              except in an eclipse, 361.
Jamin, J., Maxwell on bis tbeory of
                                                           Magnetic apparatus for polar expedition,
JJoeulolelpett,tic, aJJl..  refraction, 25.            J,            Joule on, 50.
                            H., magneto-optics, 167.
                            P., 46 51 ; apparatus for        ,, deflection of cathode stream, re-
46 ; on mechanical theory of light,                                   lation to abruptness, 420.

47 ; gas prisms, 47 ; porous plug ex-                      Magnetism, terrestrial, relation to sun-
                                                               spots doubtful, history of, 191.
periments, 48 ; design for thermal
                                                           Magneto-crystallic theory, 64 ; simplified
laboratory, 48 ; on scientific treat-                                 by slightness of effect, 65 ; molecu-
                                                                     lar models, 67.
ment of sewage, 49.
                                                             ,, -optics, outside ordinary electro-
Kater's reversible pendulum, theory of,                               dynamics, 42 ; implies interaction
   261, 290; performance, 262, 266; im-                               between movements of electricity
                                                                      and of matter, 43 ; exposition,
   provement, 264, 291 ; flexure, 265,                                  164, 166, consequences, 168.

    268.                                                   Malus, measures on double refraction,
                                                               100.
Kelvin, Lord, on Stokes' vector theorem,
   31 ; on magneto-crystallic theory, 67;                  Maxwell, J. Clerk, 1 45 ; announces
   early predictions on spectrum analy-
   sis, 75, 82; on discontinuity in sound-                     a purely formal theory of magnetic
   waves, 103 ; on vision through fog,                         waves which may include optics, 26,
   118 ; on Sumner's method in naviga-                         problem of reflection complicated by
   tion, 164 ; on Laplace's theory of the                      the high period of the waves, 26 ;
   tides, 169 ; design of a harmonic                           illness, 43, 45 ; absorption bands due
   analyser, 200.                                              to yellow spot, 122 ; relation of
                                                               viscosity of gases to temperature, 279 ;
Kinetics distinguished from Dynamics                           on radiometer, 433 ; on cathode
   and Statics, 27.                                            stream, 437, return current, 438.

Kirchhoff, G. R., on spectrum analysis,                    Mayer, J. R., awarded Copley medal,

    75, 81.                                                     51.
                                                           Melsens, on waves at St Helena, 135.
Korteweg, D. J., minimum dissipation                       Memory, 361.
   in viscous steady motion, 107.
                                                           Metallic surface colour in crystals, 52 4 ;
Kundt, A., and Warburg, on gaseous                             theory, 52 8.
    friction, 435.
                                                            Meteorological Council, 197 252 ; re-
Lag, rule for, with linear viscosity, 219 ;                    tirement from, 229.
    tested, 221.
                                                            Meteorology, harmonic analysis in, 186.
Lamb, H., on limits of application of
   theoretical corrections for pendulum,                   Michell, J. H., on highest wave on

    325.                                                       water, 123.
Laplace, P. S., tidal theory, 169.                          Michie- Smith, C., on thunderclouds,

Larmor, J., on supernumerary rainbows,                          132.

    333.                                                   Miller, W. A., spectrum analysis, 82.
                                                           Miller, W. H., 53; date of exact identifi-
Lenox-Conyngham, correction to Hima-
   layan pendulum observations, 298.                           cation of terrestrial and solar D lines,
                                                               80 ; conveys questions from Airy on
Ley, W. Clement, on thunderclouds, 132.                        his integral, 158.
Light, velocity in moving media, 6;                         Mixtures, cause of interfering absorption
                                                               spectra of, 477 ; electric phosphores-
   influence of Earth's motion on, 24 ;                        cence in, 493.
    small loss in extended train of quartz                  Molecular vortices, Maxwell on his, 42.
    prisms, 458.                                            Molecules, size of, 79.
Limiting forms may be indeterminate,                        Motes, extruded from stream by viscosity,

    114.                                                        108.

Lippmann,G., coloured photographs,444.                      Navigation, Sumner's method in, 164.
Listing, J. B., 4.                                          Nebuhe, 77.
                                                            Newtou, I., diagram of colours, developed
Lockyer, Sir J. N., on relation of spectra
                                                                by Maxwell, 13, 14.
    to temperatiire, 77.                                    Newton's rings with diamond, 177.
Lorentz, H. A., electric theory of reflec-                  Null points of Airy's rainbow integral,

    tion, 41.                                                   159.
Lorenz, L., on polarization by gratings,

    102.

Love, E. F. J., Australian gravity survey,

    315.

Lubrication, theory of, 115.

                             INDEX TO VOL. II.  505

Numerical reductions, advantage of            Polarization by gratings, early experi-
   system in, 452.                                ments, 102.

Objective, reversal of components, 194 ;      Poisson, S. D., magnetic theory, 65, 167 ;
   experiments, 194 ; resulting features          on waves in water, 175.
   of the aberration, 195 ; specification
   of photographic, 196 ; components          Prism, constitution revealed by its dis-
   examined by phosphorescence, 196.              persion, focussing for pure spectrum,
                                                  329 ; reflecting quartz, accuracy needed
Oersted, H. C., 168.                             in, 456.
Ohm's law, as to limits of, 37.
Optical instruments, British practice, 88,    Proceedings of the Eoyal Society, sug-
                                                 gested changes, 166.
    91.
                                              Prout's hypothesis of a primordial sub-
Optical reflection, experiments by                stance, 78.
   Maxwell on, 33 ; boundary conditions
   in theory, 41.                             Publications, exchange of, 58.
                                              Pulse in air has condensed and rarefied
Optical systems, Maxwell's geometrical
   theory, history, 2.                           layers, 348.

Organ-pipe, maintaining action in, 184 ;      Quartz films, optical behaviour, beads
   amplitude, 184.                               on, 336.

Oscillations, free tidal, 169; forced,        Quaternions, Maxwell on, 43.
   requires concomitant semi-free one,
   170; tidal analogy, 172.                  Eadiation, theory of exchanges in
                                                 spectra, 84 ; pressure of, 434.
Parliamentary duties, 115.
                                              Eadio-activity, decay of, 491.
Peirce, C. S., on American pendulum           Eadiometer, Maxwell on, 44; repulsion

survey, 309 313.                                 on the case, 369 ; explanation of, 373 ;
                                                 best type of vanes, 374 ; discs sensitive
Pencils, oblique, 459.                           to different radiations, 375 ; effect of
Pendulum, proposed new standard, 267,            heated envelopes, 377 ; effect of form
269; design, 270, 253271, 311; pre-              of vanes and bulb, 388, 401 ; absorption
caution in travelling, 312.                      by bulb evaded, 389 ; effect of local
Pendulums, effect of viscosity at different      heating, 391 ; of concavity, 402 ; of
exhaustions traced, 105, 110 ; mathe-            thermal capacity of vanes, 398 ; of
matical problems, 105; magnetic in-              roughness, 404 ; reversals of motion,
fluence on steel rod, 107 ; reductions           400; precautions needed, 405; Maxwell
                                                 on, 433 ; radiometer disturbance in
compared with Baily's and Sabine's,              Cavendish experiment, 473.
253 ; methods of eliminating air re-         Eadium, source of its luminosity, 478 ;
sistance, 255 ; formula for reversible,          both radiation and projection involved,
256 ; sensitiveness, 257; theory, 276;           479 ; influence of air, 480 ; coloration
correction, 277 ; temperature effect,            of glass by, 481 ; location of colour
                                                in glass, 483 ; cathode rays from, 482,
279 ; tracing discrepancies, 280 ; time          484.
lag in temperature, 281 ; advantages         Eainband spectroscopy, 225 ; difficulties,
of graphical method, 282, 285 ; in-              228.
fluence of eddies, 284 ; correction for      Eainbows, supernumerary, from quartz
                                                 fibre, 332.
humidity, 294 ; viscosity, 295, 317,         Earn say, Sir W., on argon, 445.
determinable by light model, 320;
correction for buoyancy, 318 ; flexibility   Eankine, W. J. M., a theory of double

needed, 319 ; invariable, advantages            refraction, 100.
of, 316; temperature corrections, 321 ;
collected memoirs on, 322 ; limits of        Eayleigh, Lord, 99125 ; treatise on
validity of theory, 325.
                                                sound, 102; at Stornoway, 115; on
Phosphorescence, decays by diffusion,           wave-groups, 157.
   417 ; tiring of, explained, 422 ; of      Eays, Pliicker on complexes of, 69.
   mixed rare earths, 493 ; and absorp-      Eefraction used to locate internal colour,
   tion, 496.                                   483 ; slight double, compensation for,
                                                 457.
Photometer, Maxwell's, 6 ; another on        Eepulsion, radiometer, on swinging disc,
                                                378 ; its growth and decay, 381 ;
   Swan-Brodhun    pattern, 25.      of         determination of change in the force,
                  reasons for award             383 ; time required for establishment,
Pliicker, J. K.,                                386, 397 ; deduced by chronographic
                                                reductions, 394; tangential force, 390;
Copley medal, 61 ; magnetocrystallic            theory, 406 ; new feature, 410.
theory, 64 ; positive and negative lights
in vacuo, 68 ; cathode rays, 69 ; on

geometric complexes of rays, 69 ;
plans of work, 71 ; relation to Sylvester,

71.

506 INDEX TO VOL. II.

Eeynolds, 0., turbulent motion, 321.            Spectroscope, illumination in, 465 ;
Hippies and wind, 38.                              position of condensing lens, 466.
Kobinson, T. R., on Herschel's improve-
                                                Spectrum, light and heat the same, 22 ;
   ments in optical instruments, 87 ; on
Grubb's optical work, 93.                       pure, with simple prism, 328 ; necessary
Boilers, ocean, 149 ; periods, 158.             curvature in, 454 ; obliquity, 460 ;
Rolling of ships, experiments and theory,       effect of change of adjustment, 461 ;
154 ; period of the waves essential, 156.       definition dependent on width of

Rontgen  rays, theory  o8f,084955.;  utilizes       beam, 464.
Roscoe,  Sir H. E.,
                                                Sprengel pump, limit of its action,

                                                387.

Stokes' map of ultra-violet spectrum,           Stability of viscous fluid motion, 112.
80 ; on early progress in spectrum              Statistical considerations in dynamics,

   analysis, 81, 82.                            108.
Rosse, Lord, on lunar heat, 359.
                                                Stereoscope, Maxwell's, 4.
Royal Society, Maxwell's candidature,           Stewart, Balfour, on theory of spectrum

4, 21, his Bakerian lecture on colour              analysis, 75, 84.
                                                St Helena, observations of waves at, 135.
vision, 16.

Ruhlmann, R., on viscosity in low vacua,        Stokes' vector theorem, 31.

    104.                                        Storm vortex located at sea, 143, 148 ;

Rutherford, E., his radioactive emana-             charted, 145 ; continued storm re-
                                                   quired to raise high swell, 152.
tions, 489.                                     Suess, E., on gravity, 313.

Sabine, Sir E., 253271 ; on waves at            Sumner's method at sea, 165.

   sea, 135 ; contributions to terrestrial      Sun-spots, relation to magnetism doubt-
   magnetism, 191, 261 ; reduction of              ful, 165.
                                                Surface tension, varying in a film,
   pendulum swing to vacuum, 253 ;
   defect of gravity on continents, 315.        Sydlvieffsicteurlt,y,J.  115.    Pliicker's  complexes,
Saturn's rings, Maxwell on, 7; model, 8.
Scattered and diffracted light equal in                                  J., on
                                                71 ; in Scotland, 130.
    fog, 116, 119.
Scattering of light by fine metallic            Tait, P. G., 1302 ; on gas theory, 130 ;it,

   particles, its polarization, 112.               on atmospheric electricity, 131.               7.
Schuster, A., on reaction in radiometer,        Telescopes, adaptation to photography,

    369.                                            193.

Seiches, 178 ; origin, 179 ; use to explore     Thallium, discovery of, 367.
   local basins, 181 ; at Toulon, 182 ;         Thermodynamic potential, called ' re-

   periods, 183 ; models, 183 ; prevalent          action ' by Maxwell, 34 ; and applied
   everywhere, 184.                                to critical phenomena of mixed liquids,
Silicic glass, 97.
Sky light, intensity, 119.                          35.
Smoke, clearance of, near hot bar, due
   to viscosity, 107 ; best seen against        Thin films, effect of in polarization by
   the light, 118.                                 reflection, 120.
Smith, Robert, his Optics, 3.
Smyth, Piazzi, on spectroscope, 5.              Thompson, S. P., 4959.
Snow, abnormal whiteness, 132.
Solar spectrum, limit of, 366 ; map of          Tide in Mediterranean, estimate of fort-
   ultra-violet, 366.
Solar spots and faculae, recording of,             nightly, 180.
    187 ; law of recurrence, 187.               Tides, Kelvin on Laplace's theory, 169 ;
Sound-bores, analysis of, 338 ; inter-
                                                   illustration of 170.
    ference, 344 ; coalescence, 351 ; analysis  Top, Maxwell's dynamical,
    of propagation, 346 ; nature of front,      Toynbee, A. H., on ships' records of
    346 ; influence of speed, 351 4.
Sound-waves, ultimate degradation, 161.            waves, 141153.
Spectra, earliest ultra-violet, 363 ; early     Transformer, step-up, for induction coil,
    photographs, 367 ; best conditions for
    metallic spark, 443 ; absorption spectra        426 valve, 428.
                                                Turbulent motion, dimensional relations
    affected by impurities, 477, acting
    perhaps as transformers, 478.                   in, 321 flying bullets, 338.
Spectral lines, history of, 74, 83 ; theory,    ;
    75; improved interpolation formula for             ;
    wave-lengths, 448 ; its necessity, 451.                                                       a
                                                Ultra-violet spectrum discovered, 82.
                                                Underground temperature, not direct

                                                   measure of solar energy, 189.

                                                Vacuum tubes, Pliicker on dark space, 68.;
                                                Valve, electric, 427 Reiss', 429.
                                                Vibrating plate, sand on, 108.
                                                Vibration curve, analysis of incipient,

                                                    396.

INDEX TO VOL. II.                                                 507

Vibrations, optical, regularity in gases,   Wave-lengths, table of squared reciprocals
                                                of, 453.
    85.
Viscous motion, eddying surface skin,       Waves at sea, 133 ; propagation into
                                               still water, 134 ; sorted out into groups
    109.                                       in travelling to a distance, 134 ; when
Viscosity, and elasticity, Maxwell's           very long, not noticed, 134 ; method
                                               and utility of observation, 136, 149,
   theory of, 36; equations deduced, 37;       153 ; their succession, 139.
   viscosity, effect of, explained, 254 ;
   temperature relations, 279 ; pendulum    Waves on water, history, 176.
   swings at Kew, 254 ; fluid, on           White light, discussion on nature of, 124.
   pendulum, 322 ; linear law of cor-       Wiedemann, E., on fluorescence, 132.
   rection for slow vibrations, 325 ;       Wilde lecture on Eontgen rays, 480.
   separated from friction of pivot, 368 ;  Wind, sustained action required to pro-
   interaction with inertia, 370.
Vision, verification of trichroic nature,      duce strong swell, 141, 150, also high
   22 ; sources of abnormalities, 23.          velocity, 151 ; pressure on plate, 231,
Voltaic equilibrium between metals             description, 248, relation to record
   separated by leaky air, 470.                on pressure tube, 250 ; gusts, recording
                                                of, 251.
Walker, Gen. J. T., on Indian Pendulum      Wolf, C., collection of memoirs on
                                               pendulum, 322.
   Survey, 259, 275299.                     Wollaston, W. H., on spectral lines, 74;
Watson, Capt. W., record of waves from         measures on double refraction, 100.

    storm at sea, 141 ; charted, 145.       Yellow spot, influence in colour-blind-
Wave-group dies away at the front, 157,        ness, 15, 20, 121 ; absent in oxen
                                               and sheep, 22 ; Maxwell's absorption
    177.                                       bands, 122.
Wave-groups at sea, 142, 146 ; progress

   of swell, 144 ; origination demands
   continued action of wind, 147.

CAMBRIDGE : PRINTED BY JOHN CLAY, M.A., AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.


